<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_948844_0000950136-06-002543_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2917197</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>209701</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>621</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2467117</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>71</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950136-06-002543.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331092134
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950136-06-002543
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PROLIANCE INTERNATIONAL, INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000948844
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES [3714]
		IRS NUMBER:				341807383
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13894
		FILM NUMBER:		06725494

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 GANDO DRIVE
		CITY:			NEW HAVEN
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06513
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2034016450

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 GANDO DRIVE
		CITY:			NEW HAVEN
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06513

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TRANSPRO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950802

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 NgLI2sWKVuxxDcvTVfIIfd+UKcsvNfam3Fhpw9twzfBnlwMywpA0+h7bdCvoSk3m
 7yXMJOI0kwvTbuNq5ru9hg==

 0000950136-06-002543.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 file001.htm
 FORM 10-K

UNITED
STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 Washington, D.C. 20549 
 FORM
10-K 
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
 (Mark One) 

For
the fiscal year ended December   31,   2005 

OR 

For
the transition period
from                    to                     . 
 Commission file number 1-13894 
 PROLIANCE INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
 
 (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its
charter) 

Delaware    
   
   34-1807383

(State or
other jurisdiction  of incorporation or organization)  
   
  (IRS Employer  Identification
No.)  

100 Gando Drive, New Haven,
Connecticut 06513 
 
 (Address of principal
executive offices, including zip code) 
 
 (203)
401-6450 
 
 (Registrant's telephone
number, including area code) 
 
 Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act: 

Title of each class  
   
  Name of each exchange on which
registered  

Common
Stock, $.01 Par Value  
   
  American Stock
Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12 (g) of the Act: 
 NONE 
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. 
 Yes        No   
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. 
 Yes        No   
 Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1)
has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. 
 Yes        No
  
 Indicate by check mark if disclosure
of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
any amendment to this Form 10-K.   
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of   accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer   in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
 
 Check one:       Large accelerated filer
                     Accelerated filer
                     Non-accelerated filer
   
 Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). 
 Yes        No
  
 The aggregate market value of voting
and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant at
June  30,   2005 was $42,572,305. On March
1,   2006, there were 15,255,833 outstanding shares of the
Registrant's common stock. 
 Documents Incorporated
by Reference 
 Portions of the Proxy Statement
for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this report. 
 Exhibit
Index is on pages 64 through 66 of this report. 

PROLIANCE INTERNATIONAL,
INC. INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
2005 

Page  

PART
I   

Item
1.  
   
  Business  

1  

Item 1A.  
   
  Risk Factors  

8  

Item 1B.  
   
  Unresolved Staff
Comments  

13  

Item
2.  
   
  Properties  

13  

Item
3.  
   
  Legal Proceedings  

14  

Item 4.  
   
  Submission of
Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

14  

PART
II   

Item
5.  
   
  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

16  

Item 6.  
   
  Selected Financial
Data  

17  

Item
7.  
   
  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  

18  

Item 7A.  
   
  Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

29  

Item 8.  
   
  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  

30  

Item 9.  
   
  Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure  

62  

Item
9A.  
   
  Controls and Procedures  

62  

Item 9B.  
   
  Other
Information  

63  

PART
III   

Item
10.  
   
  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

63  

Item 11.  
   
  Executive
Compensation  

63  

Item
12.  
   
  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

63  

Item 13.  
   
  Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions  

63  

Item 14.  
   
  Principal
Accountant Fees and Services  

63  

PART
IV   

Item
15.  
   
  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  

63  

Signatures  

67  

ii 

PART I 
 Item 1.    Business 
 Proliance International,
Inc., formerly known as Transpro, Inc., (the
  Company  ) designs, manufactures and markets
radiators, radiator cores, heater cores, air conditioning parts
(including condensers, compressors, accumulators and evaporators) and
other heat exchange products for the automotive and light truck
aftermarket. In addition, the Company designs, manufactures and
distributes radiators, radiator cores, charge air coolers, oil coolers
and other specialty heat exchangers for the heavy duty heat exchanger
aftermarket. 
 Recent Transactions 
 On July
22,  2005, following receipt of approval of the Company's
stockholders, the Company completed its merger transaction pursuant to
which Modine Aftermarket Holdings, Inc. (  Modine
Aftermarket  ) merged into the Company (  the
merger  ). Modine Aftermarket was spun off from Modine
Manufacturing Company (  Modine  ) immediately
prior to the merger and held Modine's aftermarket business. Upon
effectiveness of the merger, the Company changed its name to
  Proliance International, Inc.  
(  Proliance  ). In connection with the merger,
the Company issued a total of 8,145,810 shares of its common stock to
Modine shareholders, or 0.235681 shares for each outstanding Modine
common share. Immediately after the effectiveness of the merger, prior
Transpro, Inc. shareholders owned 48% of the combined company on
a fully diluted basis, while Modine shareholders owned the remaining
52%. For accounting purposes, Proliance is the acquirer. As a
result of the merger, the Company is predominantly a supplier of
heating and cooling components and systems to the automotive and heavy
duty aftermarkets in North and Central America and Europe. This
transaction is described in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Report. 
 On March  1,  2005, the Company sold its Heavy Duty
OEM business to Modine for $17  million in cash. The Heavy Duty
OEM business manufactured and distributed heat exchangers to heavy duty
truck and industrial and off-highway original equipment manufacturers.
Net proceeds from the sale were used to reduce borrowings under the
Company s credit facility and fund operations. This transaction
is described in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements contained in Item 8 of this Report. As a result of the sale,
the Company is predominantly a supplier of heating and cooling
components and systems to the automotive and heavy duty
aftermarkets. 
 Origins of the Business 
 The
Company's origins date back to 1915 when a predecessor of the
Company s former G O division commenced operations in New
Haven, Connecticut, as a manufacturer of radiators for custom built
automobiles, fire engines and original equipment manufacturers. Allen
Telecom Inc. (  Allen,   formerly The Allen
Group Inc.) acquired G O in 1970 as part of its strategy to become
a broad-based automotive supplier. The Company s GO/DAN
Industries (  GDI  ) division was formed in
1990 when Allen contributed a portion of its G O division and other
assets, which together represented all of Allen's aftermarket
radiator business, and Handy   Harman contributed substantially all
of the assets of its then wholly-owned subsidiaries, Daniel Radiator
Corporation, Jackson Industries, Inc., Lexington Tube Co., Inc. and US
Auto Radiator Manufacturing Corporation, to form a 50/50 joint venture
partnership. 
 In 1995, Allen contributed all of the assets
and liabilities of G O and its specialty fabricated metal products
business along with its interest in GDI, to the Company. Immediately
thereafter, Allen caused GDI to redeem Handy   Harman s
ownership interest in GDI. On September  29,  1995, Allen
spun off the Company to Allen s stockholders. The Company added
replacement automotive air conditioning condensers to its aftermarket
product line with the acquisition of substantially all of the assets
and the assumption of certain liabilities, of Rahn Industries effective
August  1996. The Company added other replacement automotive air
conditioning parts to its aftermarket product line with the acquisition
of the outstanding stock of Evap, Inc., which subsequently became
Ready-Aire, in  
 1 

a purchase transaction effective August
1,  1998. The Company added re-manufactured automotive air
conditioning compressors to its aftermarket product line with the
acquisition of the outstanding stock of A/C Plus, Inc. in a purchase
transaction effective February  1,  1999, which became part
of Ready-Aire. 
 Management has looked to grow the business
through a combination of internal growth, including the addition of new
customers and new products, and strategic acquisitions. On
December  27,  2002, the Company acquired certain assets of
Fedco Automotive Components Company
(  Fedco  ), based in Buffalo, New York, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Tomkins PLC. This acquisition strengthened
the Company s position in the complete heater market and
provided the Company with a new major customer relationship, the
capability to produce aluminum heaters in-house and the ability to
maximize the benefits generated by its in-house production of
copper/brass heater cores at its Mexico plant. 
 On
February  1,  2005, the Company announced that it had signed
definitive agreements, subject to customary closing conditions
including shareholder approval, providing for the merger of the
aftermarket business of Modine into the Company and Modine s
acquisition of the Company s Heavy Duty OEM business unit for
$17  million in cash. The merger transaction, which was completed
on July  22,  2005, as noted above, is expected to result in
the Company having 2006 consolidated annual sales of over $400
million and adds manufacturing and distribution locations in the U.S.,
Europe, Mexico and Central America. In addition, the Company is now
focused predominantly on supplying heating and cooling components and
systems to the automotive and heavy duty aftermarkets in North and
Central America and Europe. The merger transaction and Heavy Duty OEM
sale are further described in Notes 4 and 5 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this
Report. 
 Current Structure 
 Subsequent to the
merger with Modine Aftermarket and the sale of the Heavy Duty OEM
business, the Company has been reorganized into two reporting segments,
based upon the geographic area served   Domestic and
International. The Domestic marketplace supplies heat exchange and air
conditioning products to the automotive and light truck aftermarket and
heat exchange products to the heavy duty aftermarket in the United
States and Canada. The International segment includes heat exchange and
air conditioning products for the automotive and light truck
aftermarket and heat exchange products for the heavy duty aftermarket
in Mexico, Europe and Central America. Each product group within the
Domestic segment constitutes an operating segment and has been
aggregated for purposes of reporting business segment information. 
 Markets 
 The automotive and heavy truck parts
industries target two distinct markets, the aftermarket and the
original equipment manufacturer (  OEM  )
market. The products and services used to maintain and repair
automobiles, vans, light trucks and heavy trucks, as well as
accessories not supplied with such vehicles when manufactured, form the
respective automotive and heavy truck aftermarkets. The manufacture of
individual component parts for use in the original equipment
manufacturing process of automobiles, vans, light trucks, heavy trucks
and other heavy equipment forms the automotive and heavy duty OEM
markets. Following the sale of Proliance s Heavy Duty OEM
business unit in March  2005, the Company sells its products and
services predominantly to the automotive and light truck and heavy duty
aftermarkets. 
 As a result of the Modine Aftermarket
merger, the Company, through its NRF business unit in Europe, supplies
specialty coolers for OE marine applications. The product is primarily
used on inland and smaller sea-going vessels such as tugs, ferries,
barges and service vessels. 
 Principal Products and
Services 
 The Company designs, manufactures and markets
radiators, radiator cores, heater cores, air conditioning parts
(including condensers, compressors, accumulators and evaporators) and
other heat  
 2 

exchange products for the automotive and light
truck aftermarket. In addition, the Company designs, manufactures and
distributes radiators, radiator cores, charge air coolers, charge air
cooler cores, oil coolers and other specialty heat exchangers for the
heavy duty aftermarket. 
 Trade sales by the
Company s product lines for the three years ended December
31 are as follows: 

A description of the
particular products offered by the Company in its targeted markets is
set forth below. 
 Automotive and Light Truck Heat Exchange
Products 
 The Company provides one of the most extensive
product ranges of high-quality radiators, radiator cores, heater cores,
and air conditioning condensers, compressors and parts to the
automotive and light truck aftermarket. 
 The purpose of a
radiator is to cool the engine. A radiator acts as a heat exchanger,
removing heat from engine coolant as it passes through the radiator.
The construction of a radiator usually consists of: the radiator core,
which consists of coolant-carrying tubes and a large cooling area made
up of metal fins, a receiving (inlet) tank, a dispensing (outlet) tank
and side columns. In operation, coolant is pumped from the engine to
the inlet tank where it spreads through the tubes. As the engine
coolant passes through the tubes, it loses its heat to the air stream
through the fins connected to the tubes. After passing through the
tubes, the reduced temperature coolant enters the outlet tank and is
then re-circulated through the engine. 
 
 Complete
Radiators.     The Company's domestic segment lines of
complete radiators are produced for automobile and light truck
applications and consist of more than 1,050 models, which are able to
service approximately 95% of the automobiles and light trucks in
the United States. The Company has established itself as an industry
leader with its well-recognized line of Ready-Rad   
radiators. The Ready Rad    Plus line with adaptable
fittings has become popular because of its ability to fit the
requirements of a broad line of vehicles, enabling distributors to
service a larger number of vehicles with lower inventory levels.
Complete radiators are constructed of both copper/brass and aluminum.
As a result of the merger, the Company also offers radiators under the
Modine    and the Pro Series    brands.
Complete radiators are also sold across Western Europe under the
NRF    brand and in Mexico and Central America through
MexPar. 
 The Company also sells its Ready
Rad    Heatbuster
(  Heatbuster  ) line of complete radiators.
This line of replacement radiators is specially designed to provide
approximately 20% more cooling capability than a standard
radiator. The Heatbuster line is an ideal replacement radiator for
vehicles used for towing, hauling, plowing or off-highway purposes, and
as a result, it has been particularly popular in the growing light
truck and SUV segments of the automotive fleet. 
 
 Radiator Cores.     A radiator core is the largest
and most expensive component of a complete radiator. The Company's
Ready-Core    line consists of over 1,700 models of
radiator cores for automobiles and light trucks. Given the wide range
of cores required by today's automobile and truck fleet, there are
many times when a specific core is not readily available. In these
cases, the Company can produce a new core, on demand, within several
hours and provide same day or next day service to virtually the entire
United States and Canada using its ten strategically positioned
regional manufacturing plant locations. The Company also utilizes its
regional plant locations in Europe and Mexico to provide the same
service into these markets. 
 
 Heater
Cores.     The Company produces more than 450 different heater
core models for domestic and foreign cars and light trucks, which cover
the requirements of more than 95% of the automobiles and light
trucks on the road today. A heater core is part of a vehicle's
heater system through which heated  
 3 

coolant from the engine cooling system flows.
The warm air generated as the liquid flows through the heater core is
then propelled into the vehicle s passenger compartment by a
fan. Heater cores are offered using both copper/brass and aluminum
construction. The Company's Ready-Aire    line of
heater cores is recognized as an industry leader and its models utilize
both cellular and tubular technology. Heaters are sold in North America
and on a limited basis in Europe. 
 Automotive and Light Truck
Air Conditioning Products 
 While the Company s
automotive and light truck air conditioning products are sold primarily
in the domestic segment, demand for these products in Europe has been
increasing over the last several years. Air conditioning products in
the domestic segment are marketed under the Ready-Aire   
and AirPro Quality Parts    brands. 
 
 Air
Conditioning Compressors.     The Company distributes more than
1,400 models of new and re-manufactured air conditioning compressors
for domestic and import applications in the automotive and light truck
aftermarkets. The compressor is designed to compress low-pressure vapor
refrigerant, which is drawn from the evaporator into a high-pressure
gas, and then pumped to the condenser. 
 
 Air
Conditioning Condensers.     Air conditioning condensers are a
component of a vehicle s air conditioning system designed to
convert the air conditioner refrigerant from a high-pressure gas to a
high-pressure liquid by passing it through the air-cooled condenser.
More than 450 condenser part numbers are currently cataloged and
distributed in the domestic segment. 
 
 Air Conditioning
Accumulators.     The Company offers over 600 accumulator/drier
models. Accumulators act as a reservoir that prevents liquid
refrigerant from reaching the compressor. The accumulator uses a drying
agent to remove moisture from the system and a filter screen to trap
any solid contaminants. 
 
 Air Conditioning
Evaporators.     The Company offers over 600 evaporator models.
Automotive air conditioning evaporators are designed to remove heat
from the passenger compartment. The evaporator is generally located
under the dashboard or adjacent to the firewall and functions as a heat
exchanger by passing low pressure liquid refrigerant through its
passageways. Warm air is forced from the passenger compartment over the
evaporator which cools the air for the vehicle cabin. The refrigerant
becomes a low-pressure vapor and is then re-compressed by the
compressor and re-circulated. 
 
 Air Conditioning Parts
and Supplies.     The Company sells an extensive line of other
air conditioning parts and supplies. These other component parts
include hose and tube assemblies, blowers and fan clutches. 
 Heavy Duty Heat Exchange Products 
 The Company
designs, manufactures and markets radiators, complete truck radiators,
radiator cores and charge air coolers to customers in the heavy duty
aftermarket. All products are custom designed and produced to support a
variety of unique engine cooling configurations for heavy-duty trucks,
buses, specialty equipment, industrial and marine applications such as
construction and military vehicles, stationary power generation
equipment and inland sea-going vessels. 
 
 Complete
Radiators.     The Company custom designs, manufactures and sells
a wide range of heavy duty radiator models to meet customer
specifications. Certain of the Company s radiators are sold
under the widely-recognized Ultra-Fused    brand name and
the Beta Weld    brand name, utilizing welded
tube-to-header core construction and are expressly engineered to meet
customer specifications and withstand a variety of demanding customer
applications. The Company offers a line of more than 200 models of
complete truck radiators designed for the over-the   road market.
The Company also has a line of tractor radiators which are designed to
meet the needs of customers marketing to the agricultural/farm market.
The line has over 40 models and covers popular tractor models.
Domestically, radiators are sold under the Truck
Tough    and Tractor Tough    brands. The
Company also sells complete heavy duty radiators in Europe, Mexico and
Central America. 
 4 

Radiator Cores.     Heavy
truck and industrial radiator cores are constructed of extremely
durable components in order to meet the demands of the heavy duty
commercial marketplace. The Company domestically offers approximately
8,500 models of heavy duty radiator cores to serve many different needs
in a variety of markets. In addition, the Company produces
  special order   radiator cores upon request
from customers. A heavy truck or industrial radiator core is normally
much larger than an automotive core and typically sells for three to
four times the price of an automotive core. The Company also sells
heavy duty radiator cores in Europe and in Mexico. 
 
 Charge Air Coolers.     The Company offers its heavy
duty customers a wide range of custom-designed charge air cooler
models. A charge air cooler is a heat exchanger that is used to lower
the temperature of air from a turbocharger that will be used in the
engine combustion process, thus improving engine operating efficiency
and lowering emissions. The Company believes that the demand for charge
air coolers will continue to increase as the Company s customers
face increasing pressure to produce vehicles and equipment that are
more fuel efficient and less polluting. The Company has received four
U.S. patents and numerous foreign patents relating to its proprietary
Ultra-Seal    grommeted charge air cooler. This product
offers significant improvements in performance and exceeds current
industry guidelines for durability. The current line of complete charge
air coolers for the aftermarket has over 115 models available for
sale. 
 
 Marine Products.     The Company s
NRF business unit in Europe distributes specialty coolers for OE marine
installation 
 Financial Information About Industry Segments,
Export Sales and Domestic and Foreign Operations 
 The
Company operates in two business segments, domestic and international,
in line with the geographic areas served. Applicable segment, product
line and foreign operation information appears in Note 18 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this
Report. Export sales from North America were below 10% of net
trade sales in the years ended December  31,  2005, 2004 and
2003. 
 Customers 
 The Company sells its products
and services domestically to a wide variety and large number of
industrial and commercial customers. The Company sells its automotive
and light truck products to national retailers of aftermarket
automotive products (such as AutoZone, Advance Auto Parts, Pep Boys,
CSK and O Reilly), warehouse distributors, radiator shops, hard
parts jobbers (including Carquest, Aftermarket AutoParts Alliance and
NAPA, the Automotive Parts Group of Genuine Parts Company) and other
manufacturers. In addition, as a result of the merger, the Company
sells to more than 20,000 commercial customers through its 123 branch
and agency locations located in the United States. The Company also
supplies heavy duty heat exchange products to the heavy truck and
industrial equipment aftermarkets. 
 In Europe, Central
America and Mexico, the Company services its customer base through
sales from its branch and manufacturing locations. 
 The
Company s largest customer is AutoZone, which accounted for
approximately 17%, 25% and 23% of net sales for
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In addition, Advance Auto Parts
accounted for approximately 13%, 17% and 14% of
net sales for 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. No other customer
individually represented more than 10% of net trade sales in any
of the years reported. The loss of one of the major automotive and
light truck aftermarket customers indicated above or others could have
a material adverse effect on the Company s results of
operations. 
 Sales and Marketing 
 The Company
maintains an in-house sales and marketing department to serve its
domestic markets. By focusing its sales effort at the customer level,
the Company enables its sales staff to develop a thorough understanding
of technical and production capabilities and the overall market in
which each customer operates. The Company has approximately 476
individuals involved in sales and marketing  
 5 

efforts in the United States and Canada, which
includes employees associated with our branch operations. The Company
also utilizes independent manufacturers  sales representatives
to aid in its outside sales efforts in the aftermarket channels. A
majority of the Company s domestic heat exchange sales are
distributed out of our warehouse located in Southaven, Mississippi,
while air conditioning products are distributed from our warehouse in
Arlington, Texas. As a result of the merger, the Company also has 112
branch and 11 agency sales locations through which it serves domestic
customers. These branch locations stock products, take orders from
local customers, generally over the telephone or by fax, and supply
product to those customers through local deliveries. 
 In
Europe there are 12 locations through which the Company s 51
sales and marketing people stock product, take orders from customers
and distribute product to customers. The main European warehouse is
located in Mill, The Netherlands. In Mexico and Central America, there
are 9 locations through which orders are taken from customers and
product is shipped to customers. The main warehouse is located in
Mexico City, Mexico. 
 Competition 
 The Company
faces significant competition within each of the markets in which it
operates. In its domestic automotive and light truck heat exchange
product lines, the Company believes that it is among the major
manufacturers and that competition is widely distributed. The Company
competes with the national producers of heat transfer products, such as
Visteon, internal operations of the OEMs, offshore suppliers and, to a
lesser extent, local and regional manufacturers. In recent years, the
domestic heat exchange market has experienced a significant increase in
competitive pricing pressure, a changing customer base resulting in
fewer but larger customers and an increase in imports from China and
other Asian countries. The Company s primary competition in the
air conditioning replacement parts business includes Four Seasons, a
division of Standard Motor Products, Visteon, offshore suppliers and
numerous regional operators. The domestic air conditioning market has
been influenced in recent years by excess customer inventory, an
increase in imports, improved original equipment manufacturer quality
and a shift in product demand from remanufactured to new compressors.
The Company's principal methods of competition in the domestic
markets are by emphasizing its product design, performance, price,
customer service, warranty, product availability and timely
delivery. 
 The primary competitors in the domestic heavy
duty aftermarket are regional manufacturers. 
 In Europe,
Mexico and Central America, the Company faces competition from
affiliates of the major automotive OEM s and from automotive
aftermarket parts manufacturers located in the individual
countries. 
 Intellectual Property 
 The Company
owns a number of foreign and U.S. patents and trademarks. The patents
expire on various dates from 2009 to 2019. In general, the
Company's patents cover certain of its radiator, heater, charge
air cooler and air conditioning accumulator manufacturing processes.
The Company has entered into licensing and other agreements with
respect to certain patents, trademarks and manufacturing processes it
uses in the operation of its business. The Company believes that it
owns or has rights to all patents and other technology necessary for
the operation of its business. The Company does not consider any single
patent or trademark or group of patents or trademarks to be material to
its business as a whole. 
 Manufacturing 
 As a
result of the restructuring efforts undertaken during 2005 in
conjunction with the merger, the Company has reduced the number of
locations where it produces product for the domestic automotive and
light truck marketplace. Production of copper/brass automotive and
light truck radiators previously performed in Emporia, Kansas, Nuevo
Laredo, Mexico and Mexpar s Mexico City location is now
performed only at the Company s Mexpar Mexico City location.
Aluminum radiators,  
 6 

previously produced in Emporia and Nuevo
Laredo are now produced only in Nuevo Laredo. Nuevo Laredo is also now
the sole production location for copper/brass and aluminum heaters.
Aluminum heaters were also previously produced in Buffalo, New York.
The Company produces air conditioning parts at its facility located in
Arlington, Texas. There are currently 10 regional plant facilities
which produce heat exchange product for the domestic heavy duty
aftermarket. 
 In Europe, the main radiator manufacturing
facility is located in Mill, The Netherlands. There are also three
regional manufacturing facilities in Spain, England and France. 
 In addition to the copper/brass radiator manufacturing plant
located in Mexico City, the Company also has four smaller regional
manufacturing facilities in Mexico and El Salvador. 
 Raw
Materials and Suppliers 
 The principal raw materials used
by the Company in its Automotive and Light Truck and Heavy Duty product
lines are copper, brass and aluminum. Although copper, brass, aluminum
and other primary materials are available from a number of vendors, the
Company has chosen to concentrate its sources with a limited number of
long-term suppliers. The Company believes this strategy results in
purchasing and operating economies. Outokumpu, a Swedish corporation,
supplied the Company with approximately 100% of its copper and
brass requirements in 2005, 2004 and 2003, while the Company sourced
most of its aluminum needs from Alcoa Inc. during the same periods. The
Company has not experienced any significant supply problems for these
commodities and does not anticipate any significant supply problems in
the foreseeable future. 
 The Company typically executes
purchase orders for its anticipated copper and brass requirements three
to nine months prior to the actual delivery date. In periods of
abnormally high commodity market prices, the Company will place orders
only for its current requirements. The purchase price for copper and
brass purchases is established at the time orders are placed by the
Company and not at the time of delivery. In the case of aluminum
purchases, the Company normally executes contracts up to three months
prior to the actual delivery date and the purchase price is established
at the time the purchase order is placed. 
 The Company
purchases some of its heat exchange and air conditioning products
utilizing supplier relationships with companies located in China and
other Asian countries. 
 Backlog 
 The aftermarket
typically operates on a short lead time order basis. As such, backlog
is not indicative of future overall sales levels. 
 Seasonality 
 The Company typically experiences
stronger second and third quarters and weaker first and fourth quarters
due to the seasonal, weather related fluctuations in sales volumes.
Higher sales are reported during the spring and summer months, as the
demand for replacement radiators and air conditioning parts and
supplies increases, while lower sales levels are reported during the
fall and winter months when only heater core products are in
significant demand. 
 Customer demand for heat exchange and
air conditioning products is also influenced by weather. Extremes in
temperatures, along with prolonged periods of hot and cold weather
increase the need for replacement parts. 
 In recent years,
the Company has also seen a change in the seasonality of our
customers  buying habits. Previously customers would purchase
product from vendors prior to a selling season based upon their
estimated requirements. Now customers buy product in smaller quantities
closer to the selling seasons, thus requiring vendors to potentially
carry more inventory but nonetheless provide timely response to
customer demands. This has added to the challenges associated with
being an aftermarket parts supplier. 
 Research and
Development 
 Research and development expenses were
approximately $0.2  million, $0.1  million and $0.3
million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 
 7 

Employees 
 At December
31,  2005, the Company had 2,275 employees. Of these employees,
1,184 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The
Company s collective bargaining agreements are independently
negotiated at each manufacturing facility and expire on a staggered
basis. Of the Company s unionized employees, 69% are
employed at the Company s Mexican plants and are represented by
local Mexican labor unions, 28% are located in Europe, and the
remainder are employed in the United States and are represented by
several different labor unions. The Company has successfully
re-negotiated collective bargaining agreements over the last several
years and feels labor relations are good, although there can be no
assurance that the Company will not experience work stoppages in the
future. 
 Environmental Matters 
 As is the case
with manufacturers of similar products, the Company uses certain
hazardous substances in its operations, including certain solvents,
lubricants, acids, paints and lead, and is subject to a variety of
environmental laws and regulations governing discharges to air and
water, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous or solid waste
materials and the remediation of contamination associated with releases
of hazardous substances. These laws include the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act (as amended), the Clean Air Act (as amended), the
Clean Water Act of 1990 (as amended) and the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (as amended).
The Company believes that, as a general matter, its policies, practices
and procedures are properly designed to reasonably prevent risk of
environmental damage and financial liability to the Company. On
January  27,  2003, the Company announced that it had signed
a Consent Agreement with the State of Connecticut Department of
Environmental Protection. Under the agreement, the Company will
voluntarily initiate the investigation and cleanup of environmental
contamination on property occupied by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company over 20 years ago. The Company believes there will not be a
material adverse impact to its financial results due to the
investigation and cleanup activities. The Company also believes it is
reasonably possible that environmental related liabilities might exist
with respect to other industrial sites formerly owned or occupied by
the Company. Based upon information currently available, the Company
believes that the cost of any potential remediation for which the
Company may ultimately be responsible will not have a material adverse
effect on the consolidated financial position, results of operation or
liquidity of the Company. 
 In conjunction with the merger,
Modine retained the environmental liability for environmental
remediation of soil and groundwater contamination at the facility
located in Mill, The Netherlands, which existed at the time of the
merger. As part of the agreement to sell the Company s Heavy
Duty OEM business to Modine in March  2005, the Company retained
responsibility for any environmental remediation which would result
from contamination existing on the date of the sale at the
Company s former facility in Jackson, Mississippi, which was
included in the transaction. 
 The Company currently does
not anticipate any material adverse effect on its consolidated results
of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result
of compliance with federal, state, local or foreign environmental laws
or regulations. However, risk of environmental liability and charges
associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is
inherent in the nature of the Company's business, and there is no
assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance
charges will not arise. 
 Available Information 
 The Company periodically files reports with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. Copies of any filing may be obtained at no
charge by visiting the Company s website at
 www.pliii.com , the SEC s website at
 www.sec.gov  or by writing to Investor Relations Department,
Proliance International, Inc., 100 Gando Drive, New Haven, Connecticut
06513. 
 Item 1A.    Risk Factors 
 Our business
is subject to a number of risks, some of which are discussed below.
Other risks are presented elsewhere in this report and in the
information incorporated by reference into this report.  
 8 

You should carefully consider the following
risks in addition to the other information contained in this report and
our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on
Forms 10-Q and 8-K, before deciding to buy, sell or hold our common
stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only
ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not
presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also
affect our business operations. Any of these risks could materially and
adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and
results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely
affect the price of the Company's common stock. 
 
 Our
business is impacted by customer concentration. 
 
 The
Company's largest customers are AutoZone, which accounted for
approximately 17%, 25% and 23% of net sales for
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively and Advance Auto Parts, which
accounted for approximately 13%, 17% and 14% of
net sales for 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. The sale of the
Company s OEM business during 2005 in order to become
predominantly an aftermarket-focused company has increased its reliance
on major retail customers. The loss of one of the major retail
customers indicated above could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's results of operations. In addition, if one or more of
the Company s major customers were to initiate bankruptcy or
insolvency proceedings, it could render a material portion of the
Company s accounts receivable uncollectible or substantially
impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on the
Company s financial condition. 
 
 We are facing ongoing
competitive pricing pressure. 
 
 The Company has
experienced ongoing pressure from its customers to reduce the prices it
charges for its products. This is the result of a number of industry
trends, including the impact of offshore suppliers in the marketplace,
the consolidated purchasing power of large customers and actions taken
by some of our competitors in an effort to   win
over   new business. To the extent this pricing pressure
continues, it may impact the Company s operating margins, which
could have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial
condition. In addition, this pricing pressure makes it more difficult
to pass along to customers the effects of rising commodity costs facing
the Company. 
 
 We operate in a mature and highly competitive
industry. 
 
 The principal markets in which the
Company competes are relatively mature, and future significant
increases in the Company's revenues will continue to be dependent
upon the Company's ability to increase market share in the markets
in which it competes. As a result, the Company's ability to
increase its unit volume is largely dependent upon its ability to
displace sales currently made by its competitors. The Company cannot
predict whether it will be able to increase its market share in the
markets in which it competes. 
 The Company faces
significant competition within each of the markets in which it
operates. Some of the Company's competitors are divisions of
larger companies and some are independent companies. In its automotive
and light truck heat exchange product lines, the Company believes that
it is among the major North American aftermarket manufacturers and that
competition is widely distributed. The Company competes with national
producers of heat transfer products, internal operations of the OEMs,
offshore suppliers and, to a lesser extent, local and regional
manufacturers. The Company's primary competition in the air
conditioning replacement parts business includes national producers,
offshore suppliers and numerous regional operators. The Company's
principal methods of competition include product design, performance,
price, customer service, warranty, product availability and timely
delivery. Some of the Company's competitors may enjoy economic
advantages such as lower labor and health care costs. Increased
competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins or
loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm the
Company s business, financial condition and results of
operations. 
 
 We are subject to market risks regarding raw
materials. 
 
 Most of the Company s products
require the use of copper, brass or aluminum. Although copper, brass,
aluminum and other primary materials are available from a number of
vendors, the Company  
 9 

has chosen to concentrate its sources with a
limited number of long-term suppliers. If a supply problem were to
occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company s
financial condition. In addition, certain risks may arise in the
various commodity markets in which the Company participates. Commodity
prices in the copper, brass and aluminum markets are subject to changes
based on availability and other factors outside the Company s
control. Copper, brass and aluminum prices have risen substantially in
the past several years, and the Company has been generally unable to
pass through price increases to its customers in the automotive and
light truck aftermarket. Continued commodity price increases could have
a material adverse effect on the Company s results of operations
and financial condition. 
 
 Our business is dependent on
overall economic factors beyond our control. 
 
 The
overall demand for aftermarket automotive and light truck parts is
closely correlated to overall miles driven by vehicle users. Therefore,
a substantial increase in fuel prices or a general economic slowdown
could adversely impact the demand for the Company s products.
Concerns about inflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced
corporate profits and capital spending, and recent international
conflicts and terrorist and military actions may result in a downturn
in worldwide economic conditions, particularly in the United States.
These unfavorable economic conditions may have a negative impact on
customer buying habits and market trends. If overall market conditions
worsen, the Company s business, financial condition and results
of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 
 
 We may have difficulties integrating the acquired
business of Modine Aftermarket Holdings, Inc. into the
Company. 
 
 The Company faces risks related to the
recently completed merger, pursuant to which Modine Aftermarket
Holdings, Inc. (the   Modine Aftermarket
Business  ), a former subsidiary of Modine Manufacturing
Company (  Modine  ), merged with and into the
Company. 
 The Company s failure to integrate the
Modine Aftermarket Business into its operations successfully and in a
timely manner could reduce the Company's profitability. The
merger, completed on July  22,  2005, involved the
integration of businesses that previously have operated separately. The
Company expects that the merger will result in efficiencies, business
opportunities and new prospects for growth. However, although many of
the integration tasks have been completed, it is possible that the
Company may not realize portions of the expected efficiencies, business
opportunities and growth prospects, or that the
restructuring/implementation costs could be underestimated, due to: 

The risk that the businesses will
not be integrated successfully; 

The risk that the cost savings
and any revenue synergies from the transaction may not be fully
realized or may take longer to realize than expected; 

Disruption from the transaction
making it more difficult to maintain relationships with clients,
employees or suppliers; 

The
transaction may involve unexpected costs; 

Increased competition and its
effect on pricing, spending, third-party relationships and
revenues; 

The risk of new and
changing regulation in the U.S. and internationally; 

The possibility that
Proliance s historical businesses may suffer as a result of the
transaction. 

If these factors limit the Company's
ability to integrate the operations of the Modine Aftermarket Business
successfully or in a timely manner, the Company may not meet
expectations for future synergy savings. 
 
 We are subject to
risks relating to outsourcing. 
 
 The Company
outsources certain of its operating functions to third parties and
relies on those third parties to provide products and services on a
timely and effective basis. Although the Company  
 10 

closely monitors the performance of these
third parties and maintains back-up plans in case third parties are
unable to perform as agreed, the Company does not ultimately control
the performance of its outsourcing partners. The failure of third-party
outsourcing partners to perform as expected or as required by contract
could have a material adverse effect on the Company s ability to
properly carry-out its business functions on a correct and timely
basis. 
 
 We have takeover defense provisions that may inhibit
an acquisition of the Company. 
 
 The Company has
certain anti-takeover measures that may affect the market price of the
Company's common stock. The Company's certificate of
incorporation, its by-laws and Delaware law contain several provisions
that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of the Company
in a transaction not approved by the Company's board of directors.
The Company's certificate of incorporation and by-laws include
provisions such as: 

The
division of the Company's board of directors into three classes,
including related provisions (1) providing that vacancies on the board
may only be filled by remaining board members and directors may only be
elected at annual meetings or removed for cause and (2) requiring a
vote of holders of 80% of the Company's voting stock to
amend the classified board and related provisions or to remove a
director; and 

The ability of
the Company's board of directors to issue shares of preferred
stock in one or more series without further authorization of
shareholders. 

The classified board and related provisions
described above will expire automatically at the 2009 annual
shareholders meeting, and all directors will be elected for one-year
terms beginning with that meeting, including directors whose terms
otherwise would have expired after that meeting. 
 
 We are
subject to interest rate and foreign currency risks. 
 
 The Company's interest expense is sensitive to changes
in interest rates. At December  31,  2005, the Company had a
Loan Agreement, under which $40.4  million was outstanding. The
weighted average interest rate on the Loan Agreement during 2005 was
5.85%. Interest on the Loan Agreement is based on, at the
Company's option, the Eurodollar loan rate plus a Eurodollar
margin or the prime rate. The Eurodollar margin for the period
July  21,  2005 through April  21,  2006 is
2% while thereafter it is between 1.75% and 2.25%.
Factors outside of the Company s control result in changes in
both the Eurodollar loan rate and the prime rate. 
 The
Company has sales and manufacturing facilities in Europe and Mexico. As
a result, changes in the foreign currency exchange rates and changes in
the economic conditions in Europe and Mexico could affect the
Company s financial results. 
 
 Our business could be
subject to environmental liabilities. 
 
 As is the
case with manufacturers of similar products, the Company uses certain
hazardous substances in its operations. The Company currently does not
anticipate any material adverse effect on its consolidated results of
operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of
compliance with Federal, state, local or foreign environmental laws or
regulations; however, the risk of environmental liability and charges
associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is
inherent in the nature of the Company s business, and there is
no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance
charges will not arise in the future. 
 
 We could be subject
to material legal proceedings. 
 
 Various legal
actions are pending against or involve the Company in the ordinary
course of business with respect to such matters as product liability,
casualty, environmental and employment-related claims. While none of
the pending actions of this nature are material, there can be no
assurance a material action arising in the ordinary course of business
will not be asserted in the future. In addition, pursuant to an
Agreement and Plan of Merger dated July  23,  1998 (the
  Purchase  
 11 

Agreement  ), the Company
acquired from Paul S. Wilhide (  Wilhide  ) all
of the common stock of EVAP, Inc. The consideration for this
transaction was a payment of $3  million in cash, the issuance of
30,000 shares of the Company's Series B Convertible Redeemable
Preferred Stock (the   Convertible Shares  ),
and the potential for an   earn-out   payment
to Wilhide based on a calculation relating to EVAP's performance
during the years 1999 and 2000. There is presently a dispute between
the Company and Wilhide relating to the calculation of the earn-out.
Wilhide claims that the value of his earn-out is $3.75  million,
while the Company believes that Wilhide is not entitled to any
earn-out. Under the payout formula in the Purchase Agreement, any
earn-out, which would include interest, may be payable to Wilhide in
cash. The Purchase Agreement includes an arbitration provision and the
arbitration is currently proceeding before an arbitrator in Ft. Worth,
Texas. While the arbitration schedule has not been finalized, it is
anticipated that the arbitration hearing will occur and a decision will
be rendered in 2006. The Company is vigorously defending this matter.
Depending on the amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of this
matter could materially affect the Company's consolidated
financial position, future operations or cash flows in a particular
period. The ultimate outcome at this time, however, is unknown. 
 
 Some of our activities may be restricted by the tax impact of
the recent merger with the Modine Aftermarket Business. 
 
 Under applicable federal income tax rules, if the Company
takes certain actions within two years following completion of the
merger, the spin-off of the Modine Aftermarket Business could result in
a taxable event to Modine. If the Company were to take action that
would result in the spin-off or the merger becoming taxable, the
Company would be required to indemnify Modine for the amount of any
resulting income tax to Modine under the terms of a tax sharing
agreement entered into by the Company, Modine Aftermarket Holdings and
Modine. In order to avoid this potential liability, the Company agreed,
in the tax sharing agreement, that it would not take actions that are
inconsistent with the Company s factual statements or
representations made in its representations letter to Modine in
connection with the IRS rulings or that cause the spin-off to become
taxable to Modine without obtaining either an unqualified opinion of an
independent nationally recognized tax counsel that such actions will
not cause the spin-off to become taxable or Modine's consent. 
 
 Changes in laws and regulations that affect the governance of
public companies have increased our operating expenses and will
continue to do so. 
 
 Changes in the laws and
regulations affecting public companies included in the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 have imposed new duties on us and on our executives,
directors, attorneys and independent registered public accounting firm.
In order to comply with these new rules, we have internally added staff
positions and hired a consulting advisory firm to assist us in the
process, and we also expect to use additional services of our outside
legal counsel, all of which will increase our operating expenses. In
particular, we expect to incur additional administrative expenses as we
implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires
management to report on, and our independent registered public
accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls. For example, we
expect to incur significant expenses in connection with the
implementation, documentation and testing of our existing control
systems and possible establishment of new controls and systems.
Management time associated with these compliance efforts necessarily
reduces time available for other operating activities, which could
adversely affect operating results. If we are unable to achieve full
and timely compliance with these regulatory requirements, we could be
required to incur additional costs, expend additional management time
on remedial efforts and make related public disclosures that could
adversely affect our stock price. 
 
 We are subject to risks
related to future liquidity. 
 
 The future liquidity
and ordinary capital needs of the Company in the short term are
expected to be met from a combination of cash flows from operations and
borrowings under the loan agreement with its bank lenders. However, the
Company s future cash flow may be impacted by a number of
factors, including failure to meet financial covenants under its loan
agreement, industry trends lengthening  
 12 

customer payment terms or the discontinuance
of currently utilized customer sponsored payment programs. Changes in
payment terms to one or more major suppliers could also have a material
adverse effect on the Company s results of operations and future
liquidity. The Company currently utilizes customer-sponsored programs
administered by financial institutions in order to accelerate the
collection of funds and offset the impact of these lengthening customer
payment terms. However, there can be no assurance that the
Company s customers will continue to make these programs
available. In addition, the Company believes that the amount of
borrowings available under its loan agreement would not be sufficient
to meet the capital needs for major growth initiatives, such as
significant acquisitions. If the Company were to implement major new
growth initiatives, it would have to seek other sources or forms of
capital. No assurance can be given that the Company would be successful
in securing such additional sources or forms of capital. 
 Item
1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments 
 Not applicable. 
 Item 2.    Properties 
 The Company maintains its
corporate headquarters in New Haven, Connecticut and conducts its
operations through the following principal facilities: 

Location  
   
  Approximate Square Footage  
   
  Owned/ Leased  
   
  Product Line and Use  
   
  Lease Expiration  

Southaven,
Mississippi (1)   
   
  520,000  
   
  Leased  
   
  Distribution and
warehouse for heat exchange products  
   
  2009  

Mill, The Netherlands  
   
  274,380  
   
  Owned  
   
  Office and manufacturing, distribution and warehouse for heat
exchange products  

Nuevo Laredo,
Mexico  
   
  180,328  
   
  Leased  
   
  Manufacturing of heat
exchange products   
   
  2012  

Arlington, Texas

175,000  
   
  Leased  
   
  Manufacturing of
remanufactured air conditioning compressors, air conditioning parts and
supplies  
   
  2012  

Mexico City, Mexico  
   
  129,120  
   
  Owned  
   
  Office and manufacturing,
distribution and warehouse for heat exchange products  

Laredo, Texas   
   
  60,000  
   
  Leased  
   
  Warehouse of heat exchange products, manufacturing
of tubes for aftermarket radiators  
   
  2009  

Dallas, Texas  
   
  50,100  
   
  Leased  
   
  Manufacturing of heavy duty heat exchange products  
   
  2007  

New Haven, Connecticut  
   
  44,000  
   
  Leased  
   
  Corporate headquarters and test facility  
   
  2009  

(1)   
  During
the first quarter of 2005, the Company decided to relocate its 234,200
square foot Memphis, Tennessee distribution center into a new 520,000
square foot facility located in Southaven, Mississippi. The lease for
the Memphis facility was terminated without any termination
costs.  

The Company believes its property and
equipment are in good condition and suitable for its needs. The Company
has sufficient capacity to increase production with respect to its
replacement radiator product lines and its air conditioning replacement
parts business. Domestically, the Company maintains a nationwide
network of 112 branch locations, which generally enable the Company to
provide its customers with same day delivery service. The Company also
domestically serves the heavy duty aftermarket through ten regional
manufacturing plants. A majority of these branch and plant facilities
are leased and vary in size from 6,000 square feet to 30,000 square
feet. Internationally, the Company maintains a network of owned and
leased facilities to serve those markets. Information about long-term
lease commitments appears in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Report. 
 13 

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings 
 Various legal actions are pending against or involve the
Company in the ordinary course of business with respect to such matters
as product liability, casualty, environmental and employment-related
claims. 
 Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated
July  23,  1998 (the   Purchase
Agreement  ), the Company acquired from Paul S. Wilhide
(  Wilhide  ) all of the common stock of EVAP,
Inc. The consideration for this transaction was a payment of $3
million in cash, the issuance of 30,000 shares of the Company s
Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock (the
  Convertible Shares  ), and the potential for
an   earn-out   payment to Wilhide based on a
calculation relating to EVAP s performance during the years 1999
and 2000. There is presently a dispute between the Company and Wilhide
relating to the calculation of the earn-out. Wilhide claims that the
value of his earn-out is $3.75  million, while the Company
believes that Wilhide is not entitled to any earn-out. Under the payout
formula in the Purchase Agreement, any earn-out may be payable to
Wilhide in cash. The Purchase Agreement includes an arbitration
provision and the arbitration is currently proceeding before an
arbitrator in Ft. Worth, Texas. While the arbitration schedule has not
been finalized, it is anticipated that the arbitration hearing will
occur, and a decision will be rendered during 2006. The Company intends
to vigorously defend this matter. Depending on the amount and timing,
an unfavorable resolution of this matter could materially affect the
Company s consolidated financial position, future operations or
cash flows in a particular period. The ultimate outcome at this time,
however, is unknown. 
 Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a
Vote of Security Holders 
 No matters were submitted to a
vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the year ended
December  31,  2005. 
 14 

Executive Officers of the
Registrant: 

All officers are elected
by the Board of Directors. 
 15 

PART II 
 Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
 The Company's common stock is traded on the American
Stock Exchange. The number of beneficial holders of the Company's
common stock as of the close of business on March  10,  2006,
was approximately 11,600. Information regarding per share market prices
for the Company s common stock is shown below for 2005 and 2004.
Market prices are the daily high and low sales prices quoted on the
American Stock Exchange (AMEX). 

The Company discontinued its
quarterly common stock cash dividend in September  2000. Under the
provisions of the Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation (New England) ("Loan Agreement")
entered into on January  4,  2001, as amended, the Company
may pay common stock dividends and redeem common shares up to
$3.0  million annually, so long as excess availability, as defined
in the agreement, is at least $18.0  million for the 30
consecutive days both prior to and following the payment date. 
 16 

Item 6.    Selected Financial
Data 
 The following selected financial data should be
read in conjunction with   Item 7-Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   and   Item 8-Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data.   The Company sold its Heavy Duty
OEM business unit on March  1,  2005. Results of operations
of this business prior to its sale date have been shown as income from
discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements. 

(1)   
  Certain
prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current
year presentation.  

(3)   
  During 2005, 2004,
2003 and 2001, the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding used for basic earnings per share was also used in
computing diluted earnings per share due to the anti-dilutive impact of
common share equivalents on the loss per common share from continuing
operations.  

(4)   
  As of the end of each
period.  

(5)   
  Working capital
represents the excess of current assets over current liabilities.
Borrowings under the Revolving Credit facility are reflected as current
liabilities.  

17 

Item 7.    Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations 
 Introduction 
 The Company designs,
manufactures and markets radiators, radiator cores, heater cores, air
conditioning parts (including condensers, compressors, accumulators and
evaporators) and other heat exchange products for the automotive and
light truck aftermarket. In addition, the Company designs, manufactures
and distributes radiators, radiator cores, charge air coolers, charge
air cooler cores, oil coolers and other specialty heat exchangers for
the heavy duty aftermarket. 
 As a result of the merger
with Modine Aftermarket Holdings, Inc. on July  22,  2005,
the Company is organized into two segments based upon the geographic
area served   Domestic and International. The Domestic segment
includes sales to customers located in the United States and Canada,
while the International segment includes sales to customers located in
Mexico, Europe and Central America. Management evaluates the
performance of its reportable segments based upon operating income
(loss) before taxes as well as cash flow from operations which reflects
operating results and asset management. 
 In order to
evaluate market trends and changes, management utilizes a variety of
economic and industry data including miles driven by vehicles, average
age of vehicles, gasoline usage and pricing and automotive and light
truck vehicle population data. In addition, we also utilize Class 7 and
8 truck production data and industrial and off-highway equipment
production data. 
 Management looks to grow the business
through a combination of internal growth, including the addition of new
customers and new products, and strategic acquisitions. On
February  1,  2005, the Company announced that it had signed
definitive agreements, subject to customary closing conditions
including shareholders  approval, providing for the merger of
Modine Aftermarket into the Company and Modine s acquisition of
the Company s Heavy Duty OEM business unit. Note 5 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K,
describes the merger with the Aftermarket business of Modine which was
completed on July  22,  2005. The transaction will likely
increase the Company s 2006 consolidated annual sales to over
$400  million and adds manufacturing and distribution locations in
the U.S., Europe, Mexico and Central America. In addition, the Company
will now be focused predominantly on supplying heating and cooling
components and systems to the automotive and heavy duty aftermarkets in
North and Central America and Europe. As a result of this transaction,
the Company has a stronger balance sheet and is better positioned to
face the market challenges of the future. In conjunction with the
merger, the Company s name was changed from Transpro, Inc. to
Proliance International, Inc. The Company had also announced that, in
conjunction with the merger, it was undertaking a restructuring
program, which was expected to total $10  million to $14
million of restructuring costs over the next 12 to 18 months and would
generate savings in excess of $30  million on an annualized basis,
when completed. These costs will include restructuring costs charged to
operations, restructuring costs accrued on the acquisition balance
sheet and integration costs charged to operations. Approximately $10.5
million was spent or committed during 2005. The Company has acted to
accelerate as many restructuring activities as possible into a shorter
time frame and has worked to add additional actions to help offset
unfavorable market conditions. At this time the Company anticipates
that most activities will be completed by mid 2006 and that the full
year 2007 impact will be $45  million to $48  million. Of
this, approximately $3  million was realized in 2005 and an
additional $37  million is anticipated in 2006. These savings will
be offset in part by rising commodity costs and continued competitive
price pressure. 
 As discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Form 10-K, the
Company completed the sale of its Heavy Duty OEM Business to Modine
Manufacturing Company on March  1,  2005 for $17.0
million in cash. The gain from the sale of the business of $6.2
million before taxes of $2.3  million has been included in the
operating results for the year ended December  31,  2005.
Operating results of the Heavy Duty OEM business unit for periods prior
to the sale are shown as a discontinued operation in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations included herein. The proceeds from the sale
were utilized to reduce outstanding borrowings under the
Company s revolving credit and term loan agreements and fund
operations. 
 18 

In early 2005, prior to the closing
of the Modine Aftermarket merger, the Company commenced certain cost
reduction activities with the opening of a new distribution facility in
Southaven, Mississippi and the related closure of two warehousing
locations and a return goods facility in Memphis, Tennessee. In
addition, the Company closed its aluminum heater manufacturing plant in
Buffalo, New York, and relocated this production to an existing
facility in Mexico. 
 Results of Operations 
 Comparison
of Year Ended December  31,  2005 to 2004 
 Net
sales from continuing operations for the year ended December
31,  2005 of $296.8  million were $78.4  million or
35.9% above the $218.4  million in 2004. The 2005 results
included $68.9  million of sales by businesses acquired from
Modine for the period July  22,  2005 through the end of the
year and $227.9  million of sales by historical Proliance business
units. Domestic automotive and light truck heat exchange product sales
during 2005 were $186.8  million, including $27.2  million
resulting from the business acquired in the Modine Aftermarket merger,
compared to $164.8  million in 2004. While unit volumes were
adversely impacted by changes in customer buying habits and a shorter
than normal selling season due to weather conditions, heat exchange
product sales were also lowered by the impact of continuing competitive
pricing pressures. These pricing pressures, which result in the Company
lowering average selling prices, are expected to have an impact on
results in 2006 as well. In the domestic temperature control product
lines, sales were $39.1  million in 2005 compared to $20.5
million in 2004 reflecting $9.2  million from the businesses
acquired in the Modine Aftermarket merger, combined with increased
sales volume primarily attributable to a new customer added in 2005.
Demand for both automotive and light truck heat exchange and
temperature control products in 2005 was impacted by
  flat   miles driven statistics compared to
2004, the first time that this has been reported by the Federal Highway
Administration in over 25 years. Domestic heavy duty product sales were
$39.3  million in 2005 compared to $33.1  million in 2004 and
included $0.9  million from the businesses acquired in the Modine
Aftermarket merger. Heavy duty product sales benefited from new product
lines recently introduced into the marketplace, pricing actions and an
increase in unit volume caused by the positive effects of an improving
economy in the marketplaces served by these products. International
segment sales of $31.6  million in 2005 reflect sales generated
from the businesses in Europe, Mexico and Central America which were
acquired in the Modine Aftermarket merger. The Company s
operating unit in Europe is reported on a one-month lag. As a result,
2005 results for this business are from July  22,  2005, the
date of the merger, through November  30,  2005. 
 Gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, was 16.6%
in 2005 versus 20.1% in 2004. This reduction reflects actions
taken at our Nuevo Laredo facility to lower production levels in order
to reduce inventory levels and generate cash flow. As a result, there
was a $3.4  million increase in unabsorbed overhead which lowered
gross margin during the period. While the Company expects to continue
to take actions in 2006 to lower inventories further, it does not
anticipate that these actions will have the same impact on unabsorbed
overhead in 2006. Margins in 2005 were also impacted, for the third
consecutive year, by double digit increases in commodity costs. As an
example, copper prices during 2005 rose approximately 30% and
were at their highest levels at year end. In early 2006, prices have
continued to rise; however, it is unclear how long this trend will
continue. Within the automotive and light truck heat exchange product
lines, the Company has been unable to recover these commodity cost
increases due to market conditions; however, in the heavy duty heat
exchange product lines, it has had some success. The Company intends to
continue to attempt to recover these rising costs wherever and whenever
possible. Automotive and light truck heat exchange product margins were
also lowered by the increasing competitive pricing pressure being
experienced in this market. These competitive pricing pressures are
expected to have an impact on margins in 2006 as well. Gross margin was
also impacted by the $2.5  million write-off of the fair market
value adjustment of inventory which was recorded as part of the merger
purchase accounting entry, with respect to the Modine Aftermarket
transaction. Margins in 2005 were also lowered by $0.4  million as
a result of restructuring costs associated with the write down of
inventory to net realizable value and by a increase in the accrual for
customer adjustments due to lower than anticipated sales in a
particular  
 19 

product category. In conjunction with the
Modine merger, the Company announced a restructuring program initially
expected to take 12 - 18 months, which would generate over $30
million in future cost reductions. As of December  31,  2005,
the Company has completed a major portion of these activities and
expects to begin experiencing the benefits of these actions early in
2006. Annualized savings as a result of the restructuring actions are
now expected to be between $45  million and $48  million on
an annualized basis when completed for the full year. While the Company
continues to be focused on cost reduction actions to negate rising
costs, there can be no assurance that it will be able to do so in the
future. 
 Selling, general and administrative expenses
increased as a percentage of net sales to 22.3% in 2005 from
18.3% in 2004. While spending increased by $26.3  million
or 66%, this was largely attributable to the impact of the
merger. Costs associated with operating the seventy-four branch
locations added as a result of the merger are included in selling,
general and administrative expense. In addition, the Company incurred
approximately $1.5  million of costs associated with the
integration of IT, communications and financial information of the two
businesses as well as costs associated with the Company s name
change from Transpro, Inc. to Proliance International, Inc. In
addition, the year-over-year increase reflects $1  million of
costs attributable to the Sarbanes-Oxley compliance activities
initiated during the year, approximately $1.6  million from higher
employee health care costs and approximately $0.9  million from
higher freight costs caused by the rising price of fuel. It is
anticipated that costs associated with the Company s
Sarbanes-Oxley compliance activities will be even higher in 2006, as
both domestic and international operations prepare for the
December  31,  2006 compliance deadline, and that health care
costs will also continue to rise. Selling, general and administrative
expense levels were lowered by $0.8  million in 2005 due to the
sale of surplus machinery and equipment acquired in the merger. These
assets had been written down to a zero net book value in the purchase
accounting entry and the cash proceeds were recorded as a gain on sale
of fixed assets. 
 Restructuring charges of $3.9
million for 2005 represent costs associated with the closure of two
warehousing locations and a return goods facility in Memphis,
Tennessee, in conjunction with the opening of a new distribution
facility in Southaven, Mississippi, along with the closure of the
Company s aluminum heater manufacturing facility in Buffalo, New
York and the relocation of these activities to an existing facility in
Nuevo Laredo, Mexico. In addition, the Company incurred costs
associated with restructuring activities impacting existing Proliance
facilities, which were part of the $10  million to $14
million restructuring program announced at the time of the merger.
These included costs associated with the closure of branch and plant
locations and their consolidation into existing Modine aftermarket
facilities, the closure of the Company s New Haven, Connecticut
tube mill and the relocation of copper/brass radiator production from
the Company s Nuevo Laredo manufacturing facility to the Mexico
City facility acquired in the merger. Restructuring costs are
associated with the movement of inventory and fixed assets, one-time
personnel-related costs and the write down of fixed assets, with no
future use, to net realizable value and are recorded when incurred.
These activities are expected to be completed early in 2006 and will
result in the Company recording additional restructuring costs at that
time. Costs associated with the restructuring of Modine facilities were
recorded as accrued liabilities on the acquisition balance sheet. 
 Interest costs in 2005 of $8.0  million were $3.2
million above last year due to higher discounting fees associated with
participating in customer sponsored vendor payment programs and higher
average interest rates which were offset partially by the impact of
lower average debt levels. Discounting fees for 2005 were $4.0
million compared to $1.5  million in 2004. This reflects increased
participation in the programs offered by our customers. These
discounting fees are also impacted by the rising interest rates and the
Company s higher sales levels to customers offering these
programs. The Company expects to continue participating in these
programs in 2006, as long as this is a cost effective method of
borrowing, and expense levels will continue to be impacted by rising
discount rates and the levels of receivables discounted. Average
interest rates on our revolving credit facility were 5.85% in
2005 compared to 4.29% in 2004, while average debt levels were
$48.3  million in 2005 vs. $50.9  million in 2004. 
 20 

The effective tax rate in 2005 for
continuing operations reflects the realization of a deferred tax asset
established in 2004 along with foreign and state income tax provisions.
A federal tax benefit on the entire loss from continuing operations was
not recorded in 2005 due to the existence of the Company s tax
valuation reserve. In 2004, the effective tax rate included a tax
benefit of $0.9  million to reflect the reversal of a portion of
the deferred tax valuation reserve in anticipation of the gain to be
recorded in 2005 as a result of the sale of the Heavy Duty OEM business
unit offset by a state and foreign provision. 
 The loss
from continuing operations in 2005 was $27.7  million, or $2.59
per basic and diluted share, compared to a loss of $0.3  million,
or $0.06 per basic and diluted share in 2004. 
 As a result
of the sale of the Heavy Duty OEM business on March  1,
2005, as described in Note 4 of the accompanying Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, the results of this business are treated as a
discontinued operation. For the period prior to the sale in 2005, the
discontinued operation reported income after taxes of $0.8
million or $0.08 per basic and diluted share, compared to income after
taxes of $5.5  million, or $0.78 per basic and diluted share, for
all of 2004. 
 The difference between the $17.0
million selling price and the net book value of the Heavy Duty OEM
assets which were sold, less transaction costs, resulted in the
recording of a gain on sale after tax of $3.9  million or $0.36
per basic and diluted share in 2005. 
 As a result of
recording the merger with Modine Aftermarket during the third quarter
of 2005, there was an excess of net assets acquired over consideration
paid, which generated negative goodwill of $13.1  million or $1.22
per basic and diluted share, which was written off as extraordinary
income. The amount of negative goodwill at year end reflects a
reduction of $0.1  million from the amount recorded at the time of
the acquisition due to adjustments of estimates made in the original
opening balance sheet. 
 The net loss for 2005 was
$9.9  million or $0.93 per basic and diluted share, compared to
net income of $5.2  million, or $0.72 per basic and diluted share
a year ago. 
 Comparison of Year Ended December  31,
2004 to 2003 
 Net sales for the year ended December
31,  2004 increased 9.8% or $19.5  million to
$218.4  million as compared to $198.9  million in 2003. All
sales in 2004 and 2003 were in the domestic segment. Domestic
automotive and light truck heat exchange product sales of $164.8
million were 11.4% above 2003 resulting from product line
expansions by several major retail customers, the addition of new
customers and increased customer demand. These impacts were partially
offset by growing competitive pricing pressures on certain product
lines which caused the Company to decrease average selling prices and
precluded the Company from passing on to customers the impacts of
rising commodity costs. While miles driven have increased slightly in
2004 as compared to 2003, they continue to be pressured by rising fuel
costs. The Company s potential market continues to grow slowly,
as the number of older cars requiring heat exchanger product
replacement increases and the number of light trucks and SUV s
on the road has continued to grow. Domestic automotive and light truck
temperature control product sales of $20.5  million were
2.7% above 2003 levels due to the impact of new customer
additions. These impacts were offset in part by unit volume declines
caused by changes in customer buying habits, higher levels of customer
inventories going into the year and wet and cool weather conditions.
These new customer additions should provide the Company with a stronger
customer base should market conditions improve. Domestic heavy duty
product sales of $33.1  million were 7.0% or $2.2
million above 2003 levels. Sales grew as a result of new product
programs, pricing actions and improved economic conditions which
generated stable product demand as compared to marketplace declines
experienced during the past several years. Heavy duty product volume is
dependent on economic conditions impacting the marketplaces which it
serves. 
 Gross margin, as a percentage of sales, was
20.1% in 2004 compared to 17.3% in 2003. The 2004
improvement reflects lower product costs due to higher production
levels, improved efficiency and the impact of cost reduction programs
implemented during the past three years. These cost reduction programs
included the relocation of all copper/brass heater production to
Mexico, improvements to  
 21 

aluminum heater production, sourcing of
product from lower cost offshore suppliers, conversion of products to
aluminum from copper/brass and improvements of production efficiency.
These actions offset the impacts of rising commodity costs affecting
all segments and the competitive pricing pressures impacting the
domestic automotive and light truck heat exchange products. In 2003,
margins were adversely impacted by production cutbacks impacting
automotive and light truck heat exchange products in the fourth quarter
of 2002. These cutbacks resulted in higher actual inventory costs at
the end of 2002, which translated into lower gross margins in 2003 as
the product was sold. Margins last year were also adversely impacted by
start-up problems with the Company s new aluminum tube mill and
other manufacturing issues. These items did not recur in 2004. 
 Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2004
increased by 10.5% to $40.0  million when compared to 2003,
while expenses increased as a percentage of sales to 18.3%
compared to 18.2% in 2003. The higher expense level is
attributable to increased sales related expenses caused by the
year-over-year sales improvement, higher freight costs reflecting
rising fuel costs and increased incentive compensation accruals
attributable to the year-over-year improvement in operating results.
This impact was offset by the Company s cost reduction efforts
over the past three years to lower branch and administrative spending
relative to sales, and improve operating efficiencies. It is expected
that the Company will continue to benefit from these and future cost
reduction activities. 
 Restructuring and other special
charges of $1.5  million in 2003 represented costs associated with
the closure of two regional heavy duty plants in North Kansas City,
Missouri and Phoenix, Arizona; the closure of the Charlotte, North
Carolina branch facility, the movement of Fedco copper/brass inventory
and machinery (acquired at the end of 2002) to Mexico and a program of
salaried headcount reductions. No restructuring costs were recorded in
2004, and all cash outflows associated with the 2003 and prior year
restructuring activities were completed in 2004. 
 Interest
costs of $4.8  million in 2004 were $1.1  million above 2003
levels as the impact of higher discounting charges from the
Company s expanded participation in customer sponsored payment
programs and higher average interest rates offset the impact of lower
average debt levels. Discounting expense increased to $1.5
million in 2004 from $0.4  million in 2003 as the Company
participated in additional customer sponsored payment programs, as they
were made available, in an effort to counteract the impact of longer
customer payment terms. These discounting expenses are impacted by the
rising interest rates and the Company s higher sales levels to
customers offering these programs. Average interest rates under our
Loan and Security Agreement (  Loan
Agreement  ), with Congress Financial Corporation (New
England), an affiliate of Wachovia Bank N.A., in 2004 were 4.29%
compared with 4.13% in 2003, while average debt levels were
$50.9  million in 2004 vs. $55.5  million in 2003. 
 The effective tax rate in both 2004 and 2003 reflects state
and foreign provisions, and changes in the deferred tax valuation
allowance. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recorded a tax
benefit of $0.9  million to reflect the reversal of a portion of
its deferred tax valuation reserve in anticipation of the gain to be
recorded in 2005 as a result of the sale of its Heavy Duty OEM business
unit. The tax provision in 2003 also includes a tax benefit of
$1.4  million for refundable income taxes associated with filing
the Company s 2002 Federal Income Tax return. 
 The
loss from continuing operations was $0.3  million or $0.06 per
basic and diluted share in 2004 compared to a loss of $5.3
million or $0.76 per basic and diluted share in 2003. Income from the
discontinued operation, net of income taxes, was $5.5  million or
$0.78 per basic and diluted share in 2004 compared to income of
$0.8  million or $0.11 per basic and diluted share in 2003. 
 Net income in 2004 improved to $5.2  million or $0.72
per basic and diluted share compared to a net loss of $4.5
million or $0.65 per basic and diluted share in 2003, reflecting the
sales and operational improvements discussed above. 
 Financial
Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 In 2005,
operating activities generated cash flow of $2.7  million. This
was comprised of $1.8  million generated by continuing operations
and $0.9  million generated by the discontinued heavy duty OEM
 
 22 

business prior to its sale on March
1,  2005. For the full year, continuing operations accounts
receivable levels were lowered by $7.2  million as the impact of
increased balances reflecting higher sales levels was more than offset
by the Company s continued participation in customer sponsored
payment programs and other collection actions. The Company intends to
continue using these customer sponsored programs to accelerate the
collection of customer receivables as long as they are offered at a
cost effective discount rate. Continuing operations inventory levels
for the full year were lowered by $8.7  million, due to actions
undertaken by management in the second half of the year. Production
levels at the Company s manufacturing plants were lowered and
the level of purchases from outside third parties was reduced in order
to lower inventory levels which had risen due to a slow start to the
normal selling season and inventory added by the merger with Modine.
While these production cutbacks resulted in increased levels of
unabsorbed overhead being changed against operations, the Company was
able to generate cash which was utilized to pay down debt levels and
fund operations. Accounts payable levels rose by $8.5  million as
the Company attempted to balance vendor payments with the continuing
trend towards longer customer payment terms. During the second half of
2005, continuing operations generated $20.8  million of cash flow
from operating activities which offset the $19.4  million of cash
flow used by operations during the first half of 2005. This cash flow
in the second half of the year is largely due to inventory reduction
programs initiated by the Company. These programs included cutbacks in
production and purchasing levels and actions to lower inventory levels
added as a result of the Modine Aftermarket merger. Additional funds
were also generated by the collection of accounts receivable. Funds
generated were utilized for operating activities and to fund
restructuring actions with occurred in the second half of the year. 
 Cash flow generated from operating activities during 2004 was
$13.5  million. Of this amount, $9.2  million was generated
by continuing operations and $4.3  million by our discontinued
operation. Income from continuing operations was a loss of $0.3
million compared to a net loss of $5.3  million in 2003 reflecting
increased sales levels and the Company s cost reduction
activities. Continuing operations accounts receivable levels decreased
by $7.0  million as the Company accelerated the collection of
certain customer receivables utilizing cost effective customer
sponsored payment programs administered by financial institutions,
which offset the impact of increased receivable balances as a result of
higher sales levels. These accelerated collections were done in an
effort to offset the continuing trend towards longer customer payment
terms by   blue chip   customers, at a cost
effective discount rate. Inventory levels grew $3.6  million in
order to support the higher anticipated sales levels and the sourcing
of product from off shore suppliers. Inventory turns approximated the
levels achieved in 2003 reflecting management s efforts to
balance inventory levels in line with customer service requirements.
Accounts payable were reduced by $0.3  million. Accrued expenses
rose by $1.7  million due in part to management incentive accruals
which were zero a year ago. 
 In 2003, cash flow from
operating activities was $8.7  million. Continuing operations
provided $7.8  million and our discontinued operation provided
$0.9  million. Accounts receivable levels decreased by $10.5
million as the Company accelerated the collection of certain customer
receivables utilizing a cost effective customer sponsored payment
program administered by a financial institution. Inventory levels grew
by $6.2  million due to the soft market conditions experienced for
most of the year, which included a shorter than normal peak selling
season for heat exchanger and air conditioning products. In addition,
the higher inventory levels reflected the purchase of a
competitor s inventory from a major customer during the fourth
quarter and the requirement to build inventory in anticipation of new
Automotive and Light Truck customer programs which were expected to
commence in early 2004. Accounts payable rose by $8.4  million as
a result of the growth in inventory levels as well as the
Company s efforts to balance payable outflows with cash
collections. 
 Capital expenditures by continuing
operations were $8.9  million for 2005, compared with $3.2
million in 2004. Expenditures for 2005 were primarily associated with
the opening of a new distribution center located in Southaven,
Mississippi, the implementation of new product introductions and cost
reduction activities. At December  31,  2005, there are no
material outstanding capital commitments. Capital expenditures are
estimated to approximate $10.0  million to $11.0  million in
2006, which will include expenditures associated with the upgrade of
computer systems in Mexico and Europe, the conversion  
 23 

of Modine computer systems in the U.S. to the
Company s, new product introductions and cost reduction actions.
It is anticipated that these expenditures will either be funded by
operations, leasing actions or from borrowings under the existing
revolving credit agreement. 
 During 2005, in a non-cash
transaction, the Company entered into a long-term capital lease for the
purchase of racking to be used at its new distribution center. In
addition, during the third quarter of 2004, in a non-cash transaction,
the Company sold $1.6  million of inventory and fixed assets,
associated with its condenser product line, at its net book value, to a
vendor in return for a reduction in the Company s accounts
payable to that vendor and a 24-month supply agreement commencing on
January  1,  2005. 
 As further disclosed in Note
5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on July
22,  2005, the Company completed its merger with Modine
Aftermarket. Transaction costs approximated $8.7  million, of
which $6.4  million has been paid during 2005, $0.9  million
was payable at December  31,  2005 and $1.4  million had
been paid during 2004. During 2005, the Company had expenditures of
$3.0 million associated with restructuring activities impacting Modine
facilities which were accrued on the acquisition balance sheet. 
 On March  1,  2005, the Company completed the sale
of its Heavy Duty OEM business for $17  million in cash. These
proceeds were utilized to lower outstanding borrowings under the
revolving credit agreement and fund operations. 
 On
May  1,  2003, the Company completed the sale of its Gando
Drive headquarters facility in New Haven, Connecticut and entered into
a lease of its currently occupied space used for offices, test facility
and tube mill operations. As a result, the Company repaid the
$5.0  million Industrial Revenue Bond on the facility, created
greater availability of funds under its credit agreement and eliminated
an underutilized asset. The gain on the sale of the building, of
approximately $1.6  million, is being recognized equally over the
six-year initial term of the lease on the facility. 
 Cash
dividends paid to a preferred shareholder were approximately $0.1
million in 2005, 2004 and 2003. 
 At December
31,  2005, total debt outstanding was $41.9  million;
$2.1  million lower than a year earlier. This reduction reflects
the utilization of funds generated by operating activities and from the
sale of the Heavy Duty OEM business. At December  31,  2005,
the Company had $17.5  million available for future borrowings
under its Loan Agreement and was in compliance with the covenants
contained in the Loan Agreement. 
 Total debt at the end of
2004 was $44.0  million compared with $50.9  million at the
end of 2003. This $6.9  million reduction reflects the utilization
of funds generated by operating activities. 
 In 2003,
total debt was lowered by $8.7  million reflecting the pay down of
the $5.0  million Industrial Revenue Bond, at the time the
Company s headquarters facility was sold, and the utilization of
cash flow generated by operations. 
 On November
19,  2004, the Company entered into an amendment to its Loan
Agreement which increased loan availability by $1.0  million as a
result of a reduction in an availability reserve contained in the
Agreement. In addition, the minimum adjusted net worth requirement
under the agreement was increased from $37.0  million to
$40.0  million for all periods after September  30,
2004. 
 On July  22,  2005, in connection with
the merger of the Company with the aftermarket business of Modine, the
Company amended its $80.0  million credit facility (the
  Loan Agreement  ) with Wachovia Capital
Financial Corporation (New England), formerly known as Congress
Financial Corporation (New England) effective July  21,
2005. The amended credit facility consists of a revolving credit line
with maximum borrowings of $78.3  million and a $1.7  million
term loan, each of which was amended to expire on July  21,
2009 (subject to renewal on an annual basis thereafter). Under the
amended credit facility, the interest rate is 2% over a
Eurodollar-based rate through April  21,  2006 and ranges
from 1.75% to 2.25% over such rate thereafter. The
amended credit facility also provides that the Company may pay
dividends or repurchase capital stock of up to $3.0  million
annually, as long as excess availability is at least $18.0
million for the 30 consecutive days both prior to and  
 24 

following the payment date. The amended
credit facility also amends the borrowing base calculation such that
(i) up to $55.0  million in respect of eligible inventory may be
counted and (ii) availability reserves may be revised for dilution in
respect of the Company s accounts. The amended facility adds
financial covenants for (i) minimum EBITDA (tested quarterly commencing
September  30,  2005 and not required if excess availability
exceeds $15.0  million), (ii) minimum excess availability
($5.0  million at all times through June  30,  2006 and
$13.0  million immediately after giving effect to the Modine
merger), and (iii) capital expenditures (not to exceed $12.0
million in any calendar year end, if financed under the credit
facility). The Company was required to, and did, satisfy customary
conditions to the amendment of the credit facility and obtained
Wachovia s consent to the merger. 
 On October
20,  2005, the Company further amended its Loan and Security
Agreement. Under the amended Loan Agreement, the Unused Line Fee was
reduced through June  30,  2006. The amended Loan Agreement
also changes financial covenants for (i) minimum EBITDA (tested
quarterly commencing September  30,  2005 and not required if
Excess Availability exceeds $15.0  million) such that minimum
EBITDA for the September  30,  2005 and December
31,  2005 test dates is a higher negative amount, and (ii) minimum
Excess Availability ($5.0  million at all times through June
30,  2006) so as to give no effect to the limitations on Excess
Availability imposed by the Maximum Credit under the amended Loan
Agreement of $80.0  million or the Revolving Loan Ceiling. The
amended Loan Agreement also added a financial covenant requiring that
consolidated inventory, excluding the Company s NRF and Mexpar
subsidiaries, as of December  31,  2005 would not exceed
$122.0  million. The Company was in compliance with this covenant.
The Company was required to, and did, satisfy customary conditions to
the amendment of the Loan Agreement. 
 The future liquidity
and ordinary capital needs of the Company in the short term are
expected to be met from a combination of cash flows from operations and
borrowings under the Loan Agreement. The Company s working
capital requirements peak during the second and third quarters,
reflecting the normal seasonality in the Automotive and Light Truck
product lines. In addition, the Company s future cash flow may
be impacted by industry trends lengthening customer payment terms or
the discontinuance of currently utilized customer sponsored payment
programs. The loss of one or more of the Company s significant
customers or changes in payment terms to one or more major suppliers
could also have a material adverse effect on the company s
results of operations and future liquidity. The Company utilizes
customer-sponsored programs administered by financial institutions in
order to accelerate the collection of funds and offset the impact of
these lengthening customer payment terms. The Company intends to
continue utilizing these programs as long as they are a cost effective
tool to accelerate cash flow. The Company believes that its cash flow
from operations, together with borrowings under its Loan Agreement,
will be adequate to meet its near-term anticipated ordinary capital
expenditures and working capital requirements. However, the Company
believes that the amount of borrowings available under the Loan
Agreement would not be sufficient to meet the capital needs for major
growth initiatives, such as significant acquisitions. If the Company
were to implement major new growth initiatives, it would have to seek
other sources or forms of capital. However, no assurance can be given
that the Company would be successful in securing such additional
sources or forms of capital. 
 As a result of the merger
with the aftermarket business of Modine, the Company s liquidity
improved as the assets being acquired were debt free and the acquired
balance sheet included $6.3  million in cash. We presently
estimate that the costs of the business realignment and other actions
necessary to effectively integrate the business will be funded from
cash transferred in the merger, generated by the operations acquired,
including cost savings, or result from borrowings under the
Company s Loan Agreement. 
 25 

The following table summarizes the
Company s outstanding material contractual obligations as of
December  31,  2005: 

(1)   
  Borrowings
classified as a current liability in the Consolidated Balance Sheet
included in this Report. Based upon year end borrowing levels and
interest rates, annual interest cost would approximate $2.4
million.  

(2)   
  Pension plan
contributions reflect expected disbursements in 2006 as calculated by
the Company s third-party actuary. Estimated contributions for
future years are not currently determinable as they will be impacted by
changes in discount rates, pension plan performance and other
factors.  

(3)   
  Purchase obligations
for goods and services outstanding at the end of the year which
normally are consumed over a period of less than 12 months. This is not
reflective of total consumption over a 12-month period.  

Critical Accounting Estimates 
 The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes. A company s critical accounting estimates, as set forth
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, are those which are
most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results
of operations and often require the utilization of estimates or
subjective judgment. Based upon this definition, we have identified the
critical accounting estimates addressed below. Although we believe that
our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon
information presently available. Actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company also
has other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates,
which are further described in Note 2,   Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies  , of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein. 
 
 Revenue Recognition .    Sales are recognized
either when products are shipped to the customer or when products are
received by the customer in accordance with the invoice shipping terms.
Sales are recorded net of sales rebates, cash discounts, returns and
advertising and other allowances. Accruals for warranty costs, sales
returns and allowances are provided at the time of sale based upon
historical experience or agreements currently in place with customers.
The Company will also accrue for unusual warranty exposures at the time
the exposure is identified and quantifiable based upon analyses of
expected product failure rates and engineering cost estimates. In
connection with multi-year agreements with certain customers, the
Company incurs customer acquisition costs which are capitalized and
amortized over the life of the agreement. The Company also establishes
reserves for uncollectible trade accounts receivable based upon
historical experience, anticipated business trends and the current
economic conditions. Customer account balances are written off at the
time they are deemed fully uncollectible. Changes in our
customers  financial condition or other factors could cause our
estimates of uncollectible accounts receivable or the amortization
periods of customer acquisition costs to vary. 
 
 Inventory Valuation .    Inventories are valued at
the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market. This requires
the Company to make judgments about the likely method of disposition of
its inventory and expected recoverable value upon disposition.
Inventories are reviewed on a continuing basis, and  
 26 

provisions are also made for slow moving and
obsolete inventory based upon estimates of historical or expected usage
as well as the expected recoverable value upon disposition. 
 
 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets .    In the event
that facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of a
business unit s long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation
of recoverability would be performed. If an evaluation is required, the
estimated future undiscounted cash flows of the business unit,
associated with the long-lived assets, would be compared to the
asset s carrying amount to determine if a write-down is
required. If this review indicates that the assets will not be
recoverable, the carrying value of the Company s assets would be
reduced to their estimated fair value. The estimates used in
determining whether an impairment exists involve future cash flows of
each business unit, which are based upon expected revenue trends, cost
of production and operating expenses. 
 
 Income
Taxes .    Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded
based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases
of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the
year in which the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation
allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amount of deferred tax
assets if it is more likely than not that those such assets will not be
realized. Changes to the valuation allowance are based on the
evaluation of all available evidence supporting the Company s
ability to utilize tax benefits prior to their expiration. 
 
 Pension Plans .    The Company establishes and
periodically reviews the assumptions used in the measurement of its
retirement plans. The discount rate used in the assumption will change
in relation to increases or decreases in applicable published bond
indices. At December  31,  2005, the discount rate for
domestic plans was 5.88%. The return on assets for domestic
plans reflects the long-term rate of return on plan assets expected to
be realized over a ten year or longer period. As such, it will normally
not be adjusted for short-term trends in the stock or bond markets. In
addition, the rate of return will reflect the investment allocation
currently used to manage the pension portfolio. The Company s
domestic pension plan assumptions currently include a 9%
long-term annual rate of return, which is based upon the current
portfolio allocation, long-term rates of return for similar investment
vehicles and economic and other indicators of future performance.
Differences between actual and assumed portfolio performance as well as
the impact of changes in discount rates are included in the calculation
of the Company s accrued pension costs by a third-party actuary.
In the future, the unrecognized net loss, of $6.9  million at
December  31,  2005, along with changes in any of the
underlying pension assumptions, and the ongoing performance of the plan
assets, will impact future funding requirements, minimum pension
liability adjustments and net pension cost amounts. Absent any other
changes, a 1% change in the discount rate increases or decreases
pension expense by $0.3  million per year, the pension benefit
obligation by $3.5  million and the minimum pension liability
adjustment in Shareholders  Equity by $4.1  million. 
 
 Loss Reserves .    The Company has other loss
exposures such as self-insurance, environmental and litigation for
which it determines the need and amount of reserves. Reserves are
established using estimates, judgments and consistent methodologies to
determine the exposure and ultimate potential liability. 
 Inflation 
 The overall impact of the low rate of
United States inflation in recent years has resulted in no significant
impact on labor costs and general services utilized by the Company. The
principal raw materials used in the Company s replacement
radiator and heater core product lines are copper and brass. The
Company also uses aluminum for its radiator, charge air cooler,
condenser and heater core product lines. Copper, brass, aluminum and
other primary metals used in the Company s business are
generally subject to commodity pricing and variations in the market
prices for such materials. Although these materials are available from
a number of vendors, the Company has chosen to concentrate its sources
with a limited number of long-term suppliers. The Company typically
executes purchase orders for its copper and brass requirements three to
nine months prior to the actual delivery date. In periods of abnormally
high commodity market prices, the Company will place orders
 
 27 

only for its current requirements. In either
case, the purchase price for such copper, brass and aluminum is
established at the time such orders are placed by the Company and not
at the time of delivery. 
 The Company also manages its
metals commodity pricing exposure by attempting to pass through any
cost increases to its customers. During 2003, 2004 and 2005, commodity
prices increased significantly over the prior year. While the Company
has been successful in passing through some price increases on its
heavy duty products, on its automotive and light truck heat exchange
products, it has been unable to do so. As a result, the Company has
been forced to generate other cost reduction activities in order to
offset these impacts. There is no assurance that the Company will be
successful in raising prices to its customers in the future or that it
will be able to generate sufficient cost reductions to offset rising
commodity prices. The Company currently does not use financial
derivatives or other methods to hedge transactions with respect to its
metals consumption. 
 Environmental Matters 
 The
Company is subject to Federal, foreign, state and local laws designed
to protect the environment and believes that, as a general matter, its
policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to reasonably
prevent risk of environmental damage and financial liability to the
Company. On January  27,  2003, the Company signed a Consent
Agreement with the State of Connecticut Department of Environmental
Protection. Under the agreement the Company will voluntarily initiate
the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination on
property occupied by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company over 20
years ago. The Company also believes there will not be any material
adverse impact to its financial results due to the investigation and
cleanup activities. The Company also believes it is reasonably possible
that environmental related liabilities might exist with respect to
other industrial sites formerly owned or occupied by the Company. Based
upon information currently available, the Company believes that the
cost of any potential remediation for which the Company may ultimately
be responsible will not have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity of
the Company. 
 The Company currently does not anticipate
any material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations,
financial condition or competitive position as a result of compliance
with Federal, state, local or foreign environmental laws or
regulations. However, risk of environmental liability and charges
associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is
inherent in the nature of the Company's business, and there is no
assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance
charges will not arise. 
 Recently Issued Accounting
Standards 
 In December  2004, the FASB issued a
revised SFAS No. 123(R),   Share-Based
Payment.   SFAS 123(R) establishes standards for the
accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity
instruments for goods or services or incurs liabilities in exchange for
goods or services that are based on the fair value of the
entity s equity instruments, focusing primarily on accounting
for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in
share-based payment transactions. SFAS No. 123(R) requires public
entities to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange
for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value
of the award (with limited exceptions) and recognize the cost over the
period during which an employee is required to provide service in
exchange for the award. The Company is required to adopt SFAS No.
123(R) as of January  1,  2006. The ultimate impact, of
recording non-cash stock compensation expense, on the future results of
operations as a result of adopting SFAS No 123(R) is not determinable
as it is dependent on the number of options granted after the effective
date. 
 Forward-Looking Statements and Cautionary Factors 
 Statements included in this filing, which are not historical
in nature, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe
harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. Statements relating to the future financial performance of the
Company are subject to the detailed  
 28 

factors set forth in Item 1A   Risk
Factors, included in this Form 10-K. Such statements are based upon the
current beliefs and expectations of Proliance management and are
subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may
differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. When
used in this filing the terms   anticipate,  
  believe,  
  estimate,  
  expect,     may,  
  objective,  
  plan,     possible,  
  potential,  
  project,     will  
and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. The
forward-looking statements contained herein are made as of the date
hereof, and we do not undertake any obligation to update any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of future events, new
information or otherwise. 
 Item 7A.    Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
 The Company
has certain exposures to market risk related to changes in interest
rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit and commodities. 
 The Company s interest rate risk is sensitive to
changes in interest rates. At December  31,  2005, the
Company had a Loan Agreement, under which $40.4  million was
outstanding. The weighted average interest rate on the Loan Agreement
during 2005 was 5.85%. Interest on the Loan Agreement is based
on, at the Company s option, the Eurodollar loan rate plus a
Eurodollar margin or the prime rate. The Eurodollar margin for the
period July  21,  2005 through April  21,  2006 is
2% while thereafter it is between 1.75% and 2.25%.
The impact of a 10% change in market interest rates would not
have a material impact on the Company s results of
operations. 
 The Company has sales and manufacturing
facilities in Europe and Mexico. As a result, changes in foreign
currency exchange rates and changes in the economic conditions in
Europe and Mexico could affect financial results. The Company has
accounted for transactions associated with these foreign operations in
accordance with the guidance established under Financial Accounting
Standards No. 52,   Foreign Currency
Translation.   As of December  31,  2005, the
Company s foreign subsidiaries had net current assets (defined
as current assets less current liabilities) subject to foreign currency
translation risk of $32.8  million. The potential decrease in the
net current assets from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in
quoted foreign currency exchange rates at December  31,  2005
would be $3.2  million. This sensitivity analysis assumes a
parallel shift in foreign currency exchange rates. Exchange rates
rarely all move in the same direction relative to the dollar. This
assumption may overstate or understate the impact of changing exchange
rates on individual assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign
currency. 
 The Company is subject to a concentration of
credit risk primarily with its trade accounts receivable. The largest
concentration is with retail customers in the Company s Domestic
segment where the top five customers comprise 47% of net sales
in 2005 and 30% of the outstanding trade accounts receivable
balance at December  31,  2005. The loss of one or more of
these customers could have a material adverse effect on the
Company s results of operations. The Company grants credit to
customers who meet pre-established credit requirements, and generally
requires no collateral from its customers. Estimates of potential
credit losses are based upon historical experience, customer
information and management s expectations of the industry and
the overall economy. As of December  31,  2005, the Company
had no other significant concentration of credit risk. 
 Certain risks may arise in the various commodity markets in
which the Company participates. Commodity prices in the copper, brass
and aluminum markets may be subject to changes based on availability.
The Company conducts its purchasing of such commodities generally
through three to nine month purchase order commitments; however, this
practice may be modified in periods of rising prices. See
  Raw Materials and Suppliers   in Item 1 of
this Report and   Inflation   in Item 7 of this
Report for additional information on commodity purchasing. 
 29 

Item 8.    Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data 
 INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 

30 

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm 
 To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Proliance International, Inc.: 
 We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Proliance
International, Inc. and subsidiaries (formerly Transpro, Inc.) as of
December  31,  2005 and 2004 and the related consolidated
statements of operations, changes in stockholders  equity, and
cash flows for the years then ended. We have also audited the
information for the years ended December  31,  2005 and 2004
set forth in financial statement schedule II included herein. These
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are
the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
and financial statement schedule based on our audits. 
 We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements and financial
statement schedule are free of material misstatement. The Company is
not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its
internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included
consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis
for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements and schedule, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the
financial statements and schedule. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion. 
 In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Proliance
International, Inc. and subsidiaries at December  31,  2005
and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the
financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects,
the information set forth therein for the years ended December
31,  2005 and 2004. 

31 

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm 
 To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Proliance International, Inc. (formerly known as
Transpro, Inc.): 
 In our opinion, the consolidated
statements of operations, cash flows, and changes in
stockholders  equity for the year ended December  31,
2003 present fairly, in all material respects, the results of
operations and cash flows of Proliance International, Inc. (formerly
known as Transpro, Inc.) and its subsidiaries for the year ended
December  31,  2003, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our
opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying
index presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein for the year ended December  31,  2003 when
read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.
These financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements and the financial
statement schedule based on our audit. We conducted our audit of these
statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for
our opinion. 

32 

PROLIANCE INTERNATIONAL,
INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
 (in thousands,
except per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an
integral part of these consolidated financial
statements. 
 33 

PROLIANCE INTERNATIONAL,
INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 (in thousands, except
share data) 

The accompanying notes are an
integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 34 

PROLIANCE INTERNATIONAL,
INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

The accompanying notes are an
integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
 35 

PROLIANCE INTERNATIONAL,
INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS 
EQUITY 
 (in thousands, except share data) 

The accompanying notes are an
integral part of these consolidated financial
statements. 
 36 

PROLIANCE
INTERNATIONAL, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 
 Note 1    Description of Business 
 Proliance International, Inc., formerly known as Transpro,
Inc., (the   Company   or
  Proliance  ) designs, manufactures and
markets radiators, radiator cores, heater cores, air conditioning parts
(including condensers, compressors, accumulators and evaporators) and
other heat transfer products for the automotive and light truck
aftermarket. In addition, the Company designs, manufactures and
distributes radiators, radiator cores, charge air coolers, oil coolers
and other specialty heat exchangers for the heavy duty heat exchanger
aftermarket. 
 Note 2    Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies 
 
 Basis of Consolidation:     The
Company s consolidated financial statements include the accounts
of all subsidiaries. Intercompany balances and transactions have been
eliminated. As a result of the sale of the Company s Heavy Duty
OEM business on March   1,   2005, as discussed in Note
4, the accounts of the Heavy Duty OEM business unit have been
segregated and are shown in the consolidated financial statements and
notes thereto as a discontinued operation. 
 As a result of
the merger with the Modine Aftermarket business on July
22,   2005 (see Note 5), the reported results include a
subsidiary located in Europe. The operating results of this business
are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations on a
one-month lag. 
 
 Cash and Cash
Equivalents:     The Company considers all highly liquid
investments with maturities of three months or less at the time of
purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash overdrafts if any, are classified
as current liabilities. The amount reported in the balance sheet for
cash and cash equivalents approximates its fair value. 
 
 Accounts Receivable:     The Company participates in
several customer-sponsored payment programs in order to accelerate the
collection of outstanding accounts receivable and offset the impact of
lengthening customer payment terms. When invoices are submitted to the
financial institution designated in each customer program for payment,
this is done without recourse. At the time cash is received,
receivables are reduced, and a discounting fee, classified in interest
expense on the Consolidated Statement of Operations is recorded.
Discounting fee expense for the years ended December
31,   2005, 2004 and 2003 was $4.0   million,
$1.5   million and $0.4   million, respectively. The
Company establishes reserves for uncollectible trade accounts
receivable based upon historical experience, anticipated business
trends and current economic conditions. Customer account balances are
written off at the time they are deemed fully uncollectible. 
 
 Inventories:     Inventories are valued at the lower
of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market. Provisions are made for
slow moving or obsolete inventory based upon historical usage and
management estimates of expected recovery. 
 
 Property,
Plant and Equipment:     Property, plant and equipment is
recorded at cost. Ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed, while
replacements and betterments are capitalized. Land improvements,
buildings and machinery are depreciated using the straight-line method
over their estimated useful lives which range up to forty years for
buildings and between three and ten years for machinery and equipment.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lease term or the
estimated useful lives of the improvements, whichever is shorter. Upon
retirement or disposition of plant and equipment, the cost and related
accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any
resulting gain or loss is recognized in the Company s
consolidated statements of operations. 
 
 Goodwill:     Goodwill represents the excess of cost
over the fair value of assets acquired. The Company follows Statement
No. 142,   Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets   (  SFAS 142  ), which
requires that goodwill and certain other intangible assets having
indefinite lives no longer be amortized to earnings, but instead be
subject to periodic testing for impairment. Intangible assets
determined to have definitive lives will continue to be amortized over
their useful lives. At December   31,   2005 and 2004, no
goodwill was recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
 37 

Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets:     In the event that facts and circumstances indicate
that the carrying amounts of a business unit s long-lived assets
may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability would be performed. If
an evaluation is required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows
associated with the asset would be compared to the asset s
carrying amount to determine if a write-down is required. If this
review indicates that the assets will not be recoverable, the carrying
value of the Company s assets would be reduced to their
estimated fair value. 
 
 Foreign Currency
Translation:     Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries
are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates, and income
and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the
year. Resulting translation adjustments are reported as other
comprehensive income (loss) in Shareholders  Equity on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Foreign currency transaction gains or
losses are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. 
 
 Revenue Recognition:     Sales are recognized either
when products are shipped to the customer or when they are received by
the customer in accordance with the invoice shipping terms. Accruals
for warranty costs, sales returns and allowances are provided at the
time of sale based upon historical experience or consistent with
agreements currently in place with certain customers. In conjunction
with multi-year agreements with certain customers, the Company incurs
customer acquisition costs which are capitalized and amortized, as a
reduction of net sales, over the life of the agreement. Delivery
charges billed to customers were not significant in 2005, 2004 or 2003.
Freight costs for shipments of product to customers are included in
selling, general and administrative expenses and amounted to
$9.0   million, $5.9   million and $5.0   million
in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 
 
 Advertising
Costs:     The Company offers certain customers advertising and
marketing allowances as a fixed percentage of sales. These allowances
are recorded as a reduction to net sales. In addition, the Company
incurs costs to advertise and promote its products. These costs, which
are not material, are included in selling, general and administrative
expenses as incurred. 
 
 Research and
Development:     Research and development costs are expensed as
incurred and approximated $0.2   million, $0.1   million
and $0.3   million in 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. 
 
 Stock Compensation Costs:     The Company applies
APB Opinion No. 25   Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees   and related interpretations in accounting for
its stock option plans. Accordingly, no compensation cost has been
recognized in the financial statements. Had compensation cost for the
Company s plans been determined based on the fair value at the
grant dates for awards under the plans, consistent with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123   Accounting for
Stock Based Compensation,   as amended by SFAS No. 148
  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   
Transition and Disclosure  , the pro forma net (loss)
income and (loss) income per share for the three years ended
December   31, would have been as follows: 

38 

As a result of the merger with
Modine Aftermarket on July   22,   2005, all outstanding
unvested employee stock options became fully vested, thus the remaining
unrecorded stock compensation costs related to these options were
reflected in the table above in 2005. 
 
 Income
Taxes:     Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based
on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of
assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year
in which the differences are expected to reverse. A deferred tax
valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amount of
deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that such assets will
not be realized. 
 
 Concentration of Credit Risk and
Availability of Funds:     The Company is subject to a
concentration of credit risk primarily with its trade accounts
receivable. The largest concentration is with customers in the
Company s Domestic segment where the top five customers comprise
47% of net sales in 2005. The loss of one or more of these
customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company s
results of operations. The Company grants credit to customers who meet
pre-established credit requirements, and generally requires no
collateral from its customers. Estimates of potential credit losses are
based upon historical experience, customer information and
management s expectations of the industry and the overall
economy. As of December   31,   2005, the Company had no
other significant concentrations of credit risk. 
 The
Company s financial statements have been prepared on the basis
of continuity of operations as well as realization of assets and the
satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. The
future liquidity and ordinary capital needs of the Company in the short
term are expected to be met from a combination of cash flows from
operations and borrowings under the Loan Agreement. The
Company s working capital requirements peak during the first and
second quarters, reflecting the normal seasonality in the Domestic
segment. In addition, the Company s future cash flow may be
impacted by industry trends towards lengthening customer payment terms
or the extension of customer sponsored payment arrangements. The
Company utilizes customer-sponsored payment programs administered by
financial institutions in order to accelerate the collection of
receivables and offset the impact of these longer terms. The Company
intends to continue utilizing these programs as long as it is a cost
effective tool to accelerate cash flow. Management believes that cash
flow from operations, together with the debt financing described in
Note 10 herein, will be adequate to finance ongoing operations.
However, management believes that the amount of funds available under
the Loan Agreement would not be sufficient to meet the capital needs
for major growth initiatives, such as significant acquisitions. If the
Company were to implement major new growth initiatives, it would have
to seek additional sources of capital. However, no assurance can be
given that the Company would be successful in securing such additional
sources of capital. 
 
 Use of Estimates:     The
preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the consolidated
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those
estimates. 
 
 Reclassification:     Certain prior
period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation. 
 Note 3    Recent Accounting
Pronouncements 
 In December   2004, the FASB
issued a revised SFAS No. 123(R),   Share-Based
Payment  . SFAS 123(R) establishes standards for the
accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity
instruments for goods or services or incurs liabilities in exchange for
goods or services that are based on the fair value of the
entity s equity instruments, focusing primarily on accounting
for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in
share-based payment transactions. SFAS No. 123(R) requires public
entities to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange
for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value
of the award (with limited exceptions) and recognize the cost over the
period during which an employee is required to provide service in
 
 39 

exchange for the award. The Company will be
required to adopt SFAS No. 123(R) as of January   1,
2006. The ultimate impact, of recording non-cash stock compensation
expense, on the future results of operations as a result of adopting
SFAS No. 123(R) is not determinable as it is dependent on the number of
options granted after the effective date. 
 Note 4    Sale of
Heavy Duty OEM Business 
 On March   1,
2005, the Company completed the sale of its Heavy Duty OEM business to
Modine Manufacturing Company (  Modine  ) for
$17   million in cash. The Company recorded a gain of
$3.9   million, which is net of $2.3   million of income
tax, which is reported as a gain on sale of discontinued operation in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Heavy Duty OEM business
manufactured and distributed heat exchangers to heavy duty truck and
industrial and off-highway original equipment manufacturers. Net
proceeds from the sale were used to reduce borrowings under the
Company s credit facility and to fund operating activities. 
 Heavy Duty OEM results for all periods are shown in the
attached Consolidated Statements of Operations as results of
discontinued operation. Net sales for the Heavy Duty OEM business were
$9.3   million for the period January   1,   2005
through the date of the sale, March   1,   2005, while
net sales for the years ended December   31,   2004 and
2003 were $49.7   million and $29.8   million,
respectively. Income from discontinued operation for the period
January   1,   2005 through the date of the sale,
March   1,   2005, was $0.8   million, which is
net of $0.5   million of tax, and $5.5   million and
$0.8   million for the years ended December   31,
2004 and 2003, which are net of $0.2   million and $0.5
million of tax, respectively. The Company did not allocate any
interest expense to the discontinued operation. 
 At
December   31,   2004, discontinued operation s
current assets of $11.4   million included net accounts
receivable of $5.8   million; net inventories of $5.2
million; and other current assets of $0.4   million.
Discontinued operation s non-current assets reflect gross
property, plant and equipment of $22.5   million, less
$15.9   million of accumulated depreciation. Discontinued
operation s current liabilities included $6.5   million
of accounts payable and $1.7   million of accrued expenses. 
 In conjunction with the sale of the Heavy Duty OEM business
to Modine, the Company entered into a supply agreement to continue
providing Modine s Jackson, Mississippi plant, which was
acquired in the transaction, with products it had been purchasing from
Proliance facilities. This agreement is anticipated to end in 2006.
From the date of the sale through December   31,   2005,
the Company recorded $6.4   million of net trade sales to Modine
under this supply agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2004
and 2003, the Company's continuing operations had $6.9 million
and $3.8 million, respectively of intercompany sales with the Heavy
Duty OEM business. 
 Note 5    Merger with Modine Aftermarket
Business 
 On July   22,   2005, following
receipt of approval of the Company's stockholders, the Company
completed its merger transaction pursuant to which Modine Aftermarket
Holdings, Inc. (  Modine Aftermarket  ) merged
into the Company. Modine Aftermarket was spun off from Modine
immediately prior to the merger and consisted of Modine's
aftermarket business. The Modine Aftermarket business manufactured and
distributed heat exchange and temperature control products in North and
Central America and Europe. Upon effectiveness of the merger, the
Company changed its name to   Proliance International,
Inc.   (  Proliance  ). In
connection with the merger, the Company has issued a total of 8,145,810
shares of its common stock to Modine shareholders, or 0.235681 shares
for each outstanding Modine common share. Immediately after the
effectiveness of the merger, prior Transpro, Inc. shareholders owned
48% of the combined company on a fully diluted basis, while
Modine shareholders owned the remaining 52%. For accounting
purposes, the Company was the acquirer. As a result of the merger, the
Company is focused predominantly on supplying heating and cooling
components and systems to the automotive and heavy duty aftermarkets in
North and Central America and Europe. 
 40 

The acquisition was accounted for
as a purchase transaction, and accordingly, the assets and liabilities
acquired were recorded at their estimated fair value on the date of the
acquisition. The Consolidated Statements of Operations includes the
results of the acquired business for the period subsequent to the
acquisition date. 
 The aggregate consideration paid for
the transaction was as follows: 

The shares
of stock issued were valued at $6.22 per share, which represented the
average closing price of Proliance common stock for the two days before
and after the merger agreement was announced. 
 The
following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed at July   22,   2005.
These amounts are based upon a preliminary opening balance sheet, which
is still subject to review and adjustments. The initial purchase price
allocations, recorded during the third quarter of 2005, have been
adjusted for changes in the estimates of the fair value of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed. 

Included
in current liabilities assumed were accrued expenses associated with
restructuring Modine facilities. The excess ($33.3   million) of
the net assets acquired over the total consideration was first utilized
to write-down to zero the acquired property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets of the Modine Aftermarket business (totaling
$20.2   million). The remaining amount, $13.1   million,
was included as extraordinary income negative goodwill, in the
determination of net income in the accompanying Consolidated Statements
of Operations. 
 The following table summarizes unaudited
pro forma financial information for the twelve months ended
December   31,   2005 and 2004 assuming the Modine
Aftermarket merger had occurred on January   1,   2004.
The Modine Aftermarket year end was March   31. The unaudited
pro forma financial information uses data corresponding to
Proliance s reporting period. This unaudited pro forma
information does not represent what would have occurred if the
transaction had taken place on January   1,   2004 and
does not reflect our future consolidated results of operations or
financial position. The unaudited pro forma combined financial
statements do not include any adjustments to reflect any of the
restructuring costs expected to be incurred in order to combine the
operations of Proliance and the Modine Aftermarket business or the
anticipated benefits from these synergy actions. These restructuring
costs will result from actions taken with respect to both Proliance and
Modine Aftermarket business operations, facilities and associates. The
charges will be recorded based upon the nature and timing of these
integration actions. 
 41 

During September, 2005, the
Company sold to Modine, surplus fixed assets, acquired in the merger,
which had been written down to zero through the purchase accounting
entry. As a result, the $0.5   million of proceeds were recorded
as a gain on disposal of fixed assets and included as a reduction of
selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
 Note 6    Sale of
Building 
 On May   1,   2003, the Company
completed the sale of its headquarters facility in New Haven,
Connecticut. In conjunction with the sale, the Company entered into a
six-year lease for the office, test lab and tube mill space, which it
currently occupies. The proceeds from the sale were used to repay the
$5.0   million outstanding balance of the Industrial Revenue
Bond (  IRB  ) on the facility. The gain on the
sale of the building, of approximately $1.6   million, is being
recognized as income equally over the six-year term of the lease.
During 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded a gain of $0.3
million, $0.3   million and $0.2   million,
respectively, in its results from operations. The minimum lease
obligation under the lease agreement is $0.3   million per year
or $2.0   million for the full term of the lease. 
 Note
7    Restructuring Charges 
 On March
30,   2005, the Company announced that it would be closing two
warehousing operations and a returns processing facility in Memphis,
Tennessee in connection with the opening of a new distribution facility
in Southaven, Mississippi. The Company took these actions in order to
streamline its distribution network and enhance its commitment to
customer service. The closing and relocation activities were completed
by June   30,   2005 and resulted in the Company
incurring $0.5   million of restructuring costs. 
 On April   8,   2005 the Company announced that
it would close its aluminum heater manufacturing facility in Buffalo,
New York and move all its aluminum heater production to its Nuevo
Laredo, Mexico facility. The Company took these actions in order to
improve its product cost position. The closing and relocation
activities were completed by September   30,   2005 and
resulted in the Company incurring $1.0   million of
restructuring costs. This closure resulted in the termination of 54
employees. 
 In conjunction with the merger with Modine
Aftermarket, the Company commenced a 12- to 18-month restructuring
program expected to result in one-time charges of $10   million
to $14   million. These actions are designed to lower costs and
increase manufacturing and operating efficiencies and include
activities impacting existing Proliance locations, which resulted in
charges to the income statement, and activities impacting locations
acquired in the Modine Aftermarket merger, which costs have been
accrued on the opening balance sheet as a purchase accounting entry.
Activities under this program were accelerated and a major portion of
them have been completed as of December   31,   2005. The
remainder will be completed during the first half of 2006. Actions
completed in 2005 resulted in the elimination of 247 employee
positions. 
 On July   25,   2005 the Company
announced that it would close its Emporia, Kansas manufacturing
facility and move its radiator and oil cooler production to two
existing facilities in Mexico. In addition, two heavy duty regional
plants and branch distribution centers in Denver, Colorado and Seattle,
Washington were also closed and consolidated into existing facilities.
The Company took these actions in order to lower its product costs and
streamline its manufacturing capabilities. The closing and
 
 42 

relocation actions related to the Emporia,
Kansas facility were completed by the end of 2005. The closure and
relocation of the regional plant facilities were completed by
September   30,   2005. Costs associated with Modine
facilities were accrued on the opening balance sheet as a purchase
accounting entry while costs associated with Proliance facilities are
or will be included in the Statements of Operations as restructuring
expense as incurred. Cash expenditures for these activities will
continue through 2006. 
 On July   29,   2005
the Company announced that it would be closing 22 branch locations
throughout the United States as another phase of its merger
restructuring program. These facilities were combined into other
existing Company branch locations. These actions were taken in order to
eliminate duplicate facilities and lower distribution costs. The
closure and consolidation actions were completed by the end of 2005.
Costs associated with Modine facilities were accrued on the opening
balance sheet as a purchase accounting entry while costs associated
with Proliance facilities have been included in the Statements of
Operations as restructuring expense. Cash expenditures for these
activities will continue through 2006. 
 On
September   23,   2005, the Company announced the closing
of its copper/brass tube mill operation located in New Haven,
Connecticut, as another phase of its previously announced restructuring
program. The Company took this action in order to lower ongoing costs.
The closing activities were completed during the fourth quarter of 2005
and resulted in the Company incurring approximately $0.2
million of restructuring costs. These costs which are associated with
relocating inventory and machinery and one-time personnel related
expenses associated with the elimination of nine full-time positions
are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as
restructuring expense. Cash expenditures will be completed in 2006. 
 On October   7,   2005, the Company announced
its decision to (i) close its distribution centers in Orlando, Florida
and Kansas City, Missouri and consolidate these activities into two
existing facilities in Arlington, Texas and Southaven, Mississippi and
(ii) consolidate the portion of its copper/brass radiator production,
performed at its Nuevo Laredo, Mexico plant, into its Mexico City plant
location. 
 The distribution center closings in Kansas City
and Orlando and the associated relocation actions were essentially
completed by the end of 2005. In conjunction with these actions, the
Company incurred between $0.3   million and $0.4
million in one-time cash costs related to the relocation of inventory,
facility exit costs and personnel-related expenses associated with the
elimination of 36 employment positions once these activities are
completed. These costs have been accrued on the opening acquisition
balance sheet, resulting in reduction of the negative goodwill
generated by the transaction, as they related to the closure of
acquired facilities. Cash expenditures for these activities will
continue through 2006. 
 The relocation of the Nuevo Laredo
copper/brass radiator production to Mexico City is expected to be
completed during the first calendar quarter of 2006. When this action
is completed, the Company will have centralized its copper/brass
radiator production in Mexico City and its aluminum radiator production
in Nuevo Laredo. Costs associated with this relocation, which are
expected to be $3.0   million to $3.5   million, will be
recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as restructuring
expenses as they are incurred. These include cash expenditures to
relocate equipment and employee-related costs associated with the
elimination of 194 positions, along with the non-cash write-off of
certain inventory and the non-cash write-down of fixed assets, no
longer required, to net realizable value. The write-off of inventory
and fixed assets occurred in 2005. Other costs will be completed in
2006. With the relocation of production to Mexico City, the Company
expects to add 42 associates. 
 During 2003, the Company
completed the $7.0   million restructuring program that it had
commenced during the third quarter of 2001. The program was designed
around business initiatives to improve the Company s operating
performance, including the redesign of our distribution system,
headcount reductions, the transfer of production between manufacturing
facilities and a reevaluation of our product offerings. The Company
also added approximately $0.9   million of new restructuring
programs in 2003 to include the relocation of Fedco s inventory
and machinery (acquired at the end of  
 43 

2002) to Mexico and salaried headcount
reductions made in order to lower overall operating costs.
Restructuring and other special charges of $1.5   million were
recorded during 2003 as a result of these activities. 
 Workforce related charges in 2003 represent the elimination
of 82 salaried and hourly positions as a result of the closure of two
Heavy Duty Aftermarket plants and salaried headcount reductions. Cash
payments for severance programs were completed during 2004. Facility
consolidation costs in 2003 are associated with the closure of two
Heavy Duty Aftermarket plants in North Kansas City, Missouri and
Phoenix, Arizona, the closure of the Charlotte, North Carolina
Automotive and Light Truck branch and the relocation of the Fedco
copper/brass inventory and machinery from Buffalo to our existing
facility in Mexico. Cash payments were completed during 2004. In
conjunction with the closure of two Heavy Duty Aftermarket plants in
2003, the Company also wrote down the related fixed assets and
inventory to net realizable value and disposed of the assets. 
 The remaining restructuring reserve balance at
December   31,   2003 and 2005 was classified in other
accrued liabilities. At December   31,   2004, the
restructuring reserve had a zero balance. A summary of restructuring
charges and payments during the three years ended December
31,   2005 is as follows: 

Of the $4.3   million of
restructuring charges included in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations for the year ended December   31,   2005,
$0.4   million was included in cost of sales as it represents
the write down of inventory to net realizable value. 
 The
remaining accrual for facility consolidations at December 31, 2005
consists primarily of lease obligations and facility exit costs related
to the acquired Modine facilities, which are expected to be paid
primarily in 2006. 
 Note 8    Inventory  
 Inventory at December   31 consists of the
following: 

44 

Note
9    Property, Plant and Equipment 
 Property, plant
and equipment at December   31 consists of the following: 

Assets acquired in the Modine
Aftermarket merger have been recorded with a zero cost and accumulated
depreciation due to the application of a portion of the excess of net
assets acquired over the total consideration of the transaction. 
 The cost and accumulated depreciation of assets under capital
lease obligations was $2.1   million and $0.4   million
at December   31,   2005 and $0.2   million and
$0.1   million at December   31,   2004,
respectively. 
 Note 10    Debt 
 Debt at
December  31 consists of the following: 

On July  22,  2005, in
connection with the merger of the Company with the aftermarket business
of Modine, the Company amended its $80.0  million credit facility
with Wachovia Capital Financial Corporation (New England), formerly
known as Congress Financial Corporation (New England) effective
July  21,  2005. The amended credit facility consists of a
revolving credit line with maximum borrowings of $78.3  million
and a $1.7  million term loan, each of which was amended to expire
on July  21,  2009 (subject to renewal on an annual basis
thereafter). Under the amended credit facility, the interest rate is
2% over a Eurodollar-based rate through April  21,
2006 and ranges from 1.75% to 2.25% over such rate
thereafter. The amended credit facility also provides that the Company
may pay dividends or repurchase capital stock of up to $3.0
million annually, as long as excess availability, as defined in the
agreement, is at least $18.0  million for the 30 consecutive days
both prior to and following the payment date. The amended credit
facility also amends the borrowing base calculation such that (i) up to
$55.0  million in respect of eligible inventory may be counted and
(ii) availability reserves, as defined in the agreement, may be revised
for dilution in respect of the Company s accounts. The amended
facility adds financial covenants for (i) minimum EBITDA (tested
quarterly commencing September  30,  2005 and not required if
excess availability exceeds $15.0  million), (ii) minimum excess
availability ($5.0  million at all times through June
30,  2006 and $13.0  million immediately after giving effect
to the merger), and (iii) capital expenditures (not to exceed
$12.0  million in any calendar year, if financed under the credit
facility). 
 On October  20,  2005, the Company
amended its Loan and Security Agreement (the   Loan
Agreement  ) with Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (New
England), pursuant to a Thirteenth  
 45 

Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement.
Under the amended Loan Agreement, the Unused Line Fee was reduced
through June  30,  2006. The amended Loan Agreement changes
financial covenants for (i) minimum EBITDA (tested quarterly commencing
September  30,  2005 and not required if Excess Availability
exceeds $15.0  million) such that minimum EBITDA for the
September  30,  2005 and December  31,  2005 test
dates was lowered and (ii) minimum Excess Availability ($5.0
million at all times through June  30,  2006) so as to give
no effect to the limitations on Excess Availability imposed by the
Maximum Credit under the amended Loan Agreement of $80.0  million
or the Revolving Loan Ceiling. The amended Loan Agreement also included
a financial covenant requiring that consolidated inventory, excluding
the Company s NRF and Mexpar subsidiaries, as of December
31,  2005 would not exceed $122.0  million. The Company was
in compliance with these covenants at December  31,
2005. 
 On November  19,  2004, the Company
entered into an amendment to its Loan Agreement which increased loan
availability by $1.0  million as a result of a reduction in an
Availability Reserve contained in the Loan Agreement. In addition, the
minimum Adjusted Net Worth requirement, under the agreement, was
increased from $37.0  million to $40.0  million for all
periods after September  30,  2004. 
 The Loan
Agreement, which was originally entered into on January  4,
2001, and amended thereafter, is collateralized by a blanket first
security interest in substantially all of the Company s assets
plus a pledge of the stock of the Company s subsidiaries.
Available borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility are determined
by a borrowing base consisting of the Company s eligible
accounts receivable and inventory, adjusted by an advance rate.
Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility are classified as short
term in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. 
 Amounts borrowed under the Loan Agreement prior to the
amendment noted above, bore interest at variable rates based, at the
Company s option, on either the Eurodollar rate plus a margin of
2.0%, 2.25% or 2.50% depending on the
Company s pretax profit performance, or the Wachovia base
lending rate. The Loan Agreement also contained covenants regarding
working capital and net worth. 
 At December
31,  2005 and 2004, the interest rate on outstanding borrowings
under the Loan Agreement was 6.29% and 4.83%,
respectively. The weighted average interest rate during 2005 and 2004
was 5.85% and 4.29%, respectively. Available borrowings
under the Revolving Credit facility at December  31,  2005
were $17.5  million. 
 The term loan requires monthly
payments, totaling $0.3 million per year with a final payment in
July,  2009. 
 Capitalized lease obligations relate
primarily to computer equipment and racking at the Company s
distribution center in Southaven, Mississippi. The total future rental
payments under the capital leases of $1.7  million include
interest payments of $0.2  million. 
 Interest paid
during 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $7.0  million, $3.9  million,
and $2.9  million, respectively. 
 The
Company s NRF subsidiary in The Netherlands has an available
credit facility of five million Euro. There were no borrowings under
the arrangement at December  31,  2005. 
 The
Company utilizes letters of credit in the amounts of $4.9  million
at December  31,  2005 and 2004 to back certain insurance
policies and certain trade purchases. 
 Minimum future debt
repayments, excluding the Revolving Credit facility, will be $0.9
million in 2006, $0.8  million in 2007, $0.7  million in 2008
and $0.7  million in 2009. 
 Note
11    Stockholders  Equity 
 
 Common
Stock :    At the Company s annual shareholders 
meeting, held on July  22,  2005, shareholders approved an
increase in the Company s authorized common stock from
17.5  million shares to 47.5  million shares. 
 
 Stockholder Rights Plan :    On September
14,  1995, the Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights
Plan (the   Rights Plan  ), under which one
Right (the   Right  ) was issued and
distributed for  
 46 

each share of common stock. The Rights Plan
was intended to protect shareholders against unsolicited attempts to
acquire control of the Company that do not offer what the Company
believes to be an adequate price to all shareholders. Each Right
entitled the registered holder to purchase from the Company one
one-hundredth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock at a price of
$60.00 per one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock
subject to adjustment. The description and terms of the Rights were set
forth in a Rights Agreement between the Company and American Stock
Transfer   Trust Company, as Rights Agent. 
 On
April  29,  2004, the Company announced that its Board of
Directors approved an amendment of the Company s
Shareholders  Rights Agreement to accelerate its expiration date
from September  29,  2005 to September  30,  2004.
As a result, the Rights Plan was effectively terminated on
October  1,  2004. 
 
 Preferred
Stock :    In connection with the acquisition of Ready-Aire, the
Company issued 30,000 shares of its Series B Convertible Preferred
Stock (  Preferred Stock  ). The purchase
agreement provided for a potential additional payout for the Ready-Aire
acquisition based on the earnings performance of the business for the
period January  1,  1999 through December  31,
2000 that would, under certain circumstances, take the form of an
increase in the liquidation preference of the Preferred Stock. The
holder of the Preferred Stock has disputed the calculation of the
payout amount, and the Company is attempting to resolve the differences
in accordance with the arbitration provisions of the Ready-Aire stock
purchase agreement. The Preferred Stock is non-transferable and is
entitled to cumulative dividends of 5%. It is redeemable at the
Company s option, at the liquidation preference at the time of
redemption. The Preferred Stock is convertible into common stock based
upon the liquidation preference and the market value of common stock at
the time of conversion, as further defined in the purchase agreement.
The aggregate number of shares of common stock to be issued upon
conversion of Preferred Stock may not exceed 7% of the total
number of shares of common stock outstanding, after giving effect to
the conversion. 
 
 Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Loss :    Other comprehensive loss pertains to revenues,
expenses, gains and losses that are not included in net income (loss),
but rather are recorded directly in Stockholders  Equity. For
2005, 2004 and 2003, other comprehensive loss reflected minimum pension
liability adjustments. As a result of the Modine Aftermarket merger, in
2005, other comprehensive loss also reflects accumulated foreign
currency translation adjustments. The adjustments for the three years
ended December  31, were as follows: 

Note
12    Retirement and Post-retirement Plans 
 
 Domestic Retirement Plans :    A majority of the
Company s non-union full-time U.S. employees are covered by a
cash balance defined benefit plan. Generally, employees become vested
in their pension plan benefits after 5 years of employment. The Company
also maintains a non-qualified retirement plan to supplement benefits
for designated employees whose pension plan benefits are limited by the
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. 
 47 

The Company has recorded an
additional minimum liability at the end of each year representing the
excess of the accumulated benefit obligations over the fair value of
plan assets and accrued pension liabilities. To the extent possible, an
intangible asset, representing unrecognized prior service costs, has
been recorded to offset the liabilities. The balance of the liability
at the end of the period is reported as a separate reduction of
Stockholders  Equity. 
 Pension assets and
liabilities associated with the Heavy Duty OEM business unit remained
with the Company after the sale of this business unit in 2005. 
 
 Domestic Postretirement Plans :    The Company
provides healthcare and life insurance benefits for certain retired
employees who reach retirement age while working for the Company. The
Company accrues for the cost of its postretirement healthcare and life
insurance benefits based on actuarially determined costs recognized
over the period from the date of hire to the full eligibility date of
employees who are expected to qualify for these benefits. The Company
funds these costs on a pay as you go basis. 
 Components of
net periodic benefit cost of domestic retirement and postretirement
plans for the three years ended December  31 are as follows: 

The
curtailment charge incurred in 2005 relates to the closure of
facilities in conjunction with the Company s restructuring
activities. 
 The following tables set forth the domestic
plans  combined funded status and amounts recognized in the
Company s consolidated balance sheets at the measurement date,
December  31: 
 48 

The assumptions used in the
determination of the domestic retirement and postretirement benefit
obligation at December  31 are as follows: 

The assumptions used in the
determination of the net periodic benefit cost for the domestic
retirement and postretirement plans for the years ended December
31 are as follows: 

49 

The return on assets reflects the
long-term rate of return on plan assets expected to be realized over a
ten-year or longer period. As such, it will normally not be adjusted
for short-term trends in the stock or bond markets. In addition, the
rate of return will reflect the investment allocation currently used to
manage the pension portfolio. The Company s pension assumptions
currently include a 9% long-term annual rate of return, which is
based upon the current portfolio allocation, long-term rates of return
for similar investment vehicles and economic and other indicators of
future performance. 
 The assumptions used to develop
domestic postretirement plan healthcare costs at December  31 are
as follows: 

Assumed healthcare cost trend rates
can have an effect on the amounts reported as expense for the
healthcare plan. A one-percentage point change in the assumed
healthcare cost trend rates would have a $0.1  thousand effect on
total service and interest cost components and an immaterial effect on
the post retirement benefit obligation. 
 The projected
benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of
plan assets for the pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations
in excess of plan assets were $31.2  million, $31.0  million
and $24.1  million as of December  31,  2005 and
$30.4  million, $30.3  million and $23.5  million as of
December  31,  2004, respectively. 
 Benefits
expected to be paid to participants under the Company s defined
benefit pension plans are $2.2  million in 2006, $2.2
million in 2007, $2.4  million in 2008, $2.5  million in
2009, $2.6  million in 2010 and $13.9  million between 2011
and 2015. 
 Under the Company s postretirement
plans, expected benefit payments are $64  thousand in 2006,
$66  thousand in 2007, $48  thousand in 2008, $28
thousand in 2009, $25  thousand in 2010 and $108  thousand
between 2011 and 2015. 
 Assets of the Company s
pension plans and target allocations by category of investment are as
follows: 

Equity securities are
invested in a combination of U.S. and international investments. The
plan assets do not include any shares of the Company s common
stock. An outside investment advisor is utilized to manage and act as
trustee for the Company s pension plan assets. The
Company s strategy is to invest in diverse asset classes to
minimize risk and maintain liquidity to ensure adequate asset values to
meet ongoing benefit obligations. 
 It is the
Company s policy to make contributions to its qualified
retirement plans sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements of
applicable laws and regulations. During 2006, the Company currently
estimates that pension contributions will be $3.3  million. 
 
 401(k) Investment Plan :    Under the
Company s 401(k) Plan, substantially all of the Company s
non-union employees and certain union employees are eligible to
contribute a portion of their salaries into various investment options,
which include the Company s common stock. The Company matches a
percentage of the amounts contributed by the employees. The
Company s matching contributions were $0.5  million in 2005
and $0.4  million in 2004 and 2003. 
 
 Foreign
Plans :    As a result of the Modine Aftermarket merger, the
Company has defined-benefit plans and/or termination indemnity plans
covering substantially all of the eligible foreign employees.
 
 50 

Benefits under these plans are based on years
of service and final average compensation levels. Funding is limited to
statutory requirements. The Company uses December  31 as the
measurement date for the plans in Mexico and November  30 for the
plans in Europe. 
 Components of net foreign plan periodic
benefit cost for the period July  22,  2005 (the merger date)
through December  31,  2005 is as follows: 

(in thousands)   

Service
cost  
   
  $  
  95  

Interest cost  

120  

Expected return on plan assets  

(48  
  )   

Amortization of net loss (gain)  

Net periodic
benefit cost  
   
  $  
  167  

The following
tables set forth the foreign plans combined funded status and amounts
recognized in the Company s consolidated balance sheets at
December  31,  2005: 

The
assumptions used in the determination of the foreign retirement benefit
obligation at December  31,  2005 are a discount rate of
4.0% and salary progression of 2.5% in Europe and a
discount rate of 10.25% and salary progression of 6.25%
in Mexico. 
 The assumptions used in the determination of
the net periodic benefit cost for the foreign retirement plans for the
year ended December  31,  2005 were a discount rate of
4.0%, an expected rate of return of 4% and salary
progression of 2.5% in Europe and a discount rate of
10.25%, an expected rate of return of 11.25% and salary
progression of 6.25% in Mexico. 
 51 

The projected benefit obligation,
accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for the
foreign pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of
plan assets were $4.0  million, $3.2  million and $2.1
million as of December  31,  2005. 
 Company
contributions to foreign plans in 2006 are estimated to be $0.4
million. 
 Benefits expected to be paid to participants
under the Company s foreign defined benefit pension plans are
$0.4  million in 2006, $0.1  million in 2007, $0.1
million in 2008, $1.3  million in 2009, $0.2  million in 2010
and $1.2  million between 2011 and 2015. 
 Assets of
the Company s pension plans and target allocations by category
of investment are as follows: 

Note 13    Stock Compensation
Plans 
 
 Stock Options:     At December
31,  2005 the Company had three stock option plans (Equity
Incentive Plan, 1995 Stock Plan, Non-Employee Directors Stock Option
Plan) under which key employees and directors have been granted options
to purchase Proliance common stock. At the Company s annual
shareholders  meeting, held on July  22,  2005,
shareholders approved the Company s new Equity Incentive Plan
(the   Incentive Plan  ). The Incentive Plan
became operative immediately after the merger. The Incentive Plan
permits awards of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options,
restricted stock, stock units, performance shares, performance units,
deferred shares and units, stock appreciation rights and other
equity-linked awards, payable in cash or in shares of the Company
stock. Under the Incentive Plan equity-based awards relating to up to
1.4  million shares of the Company s common stock may be
granted, in addition to 56,400 shares available for options replacing
options under the Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (the
  Directors Plan  ). Awards under the Incentive
Plan can be made to directors, officers or other key employees. Under
the Plan, up to 200,000 shares, in addition to shares available for
options replacing options issued under the Directors Plan, may be
utilized for grants to non-employee directors. No new awards may be
granted under the Company s previously adopted equity-based
plans, which expired in September, 2005. Under the 1995 Stock Plan (the
  Stock Plan  ) options were granted at fair
market value on the date of grant and were generally exercisable
cumulatively at the rate of 25% one year from the date of grant,
50% two years from the date grant, 75% three years from
the date of grant, and 100% four years from the date of grant.
As a result of the Modine merger, all unvested outstanding options
granted to key employees as of July  22,  2005 became fully
vested. Options granted under the Stock Plan generally expire ten years
from the date of the grant. The total number of shares of common stock
with respect to which stock options may be granted and restricted
shares may be awarded under the Stock Plan was not to exceed 600,000.
At December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively, 534,359 and
544,359 common shares were reserved for stock options and restricted
shares granted under the Stock Plan. The Non-Employee Directors Stock
Option Plan (the   Directors Plan  ) provides
for the issuance of options at the fair market value of the common
stock covered thereby on the date of grant. Subject to certain
acceleration provisions, each option granted under the Directors Plan
will be exercisable 50% after two years from the date of grant,
75% after three years from the date of grant and 100%
after four years from the date of grant. Options granted under the
Directors Plan expire ten years from the date of grant. The total
number of shares of common stock with respect to which options may be
granted under the Directors Plan was not to exceed 100,000 shares. At
December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively, 36,800 and 99,200
common shares were reserved for stock options granted under the
Directors Plan. 
 In connection with the consummation of
the merger, outstanding options under the Directors Plan that had an
exercise price greater than or equal to the closing price of Company
common stock on the day before the merger were, at the option of each
director, replaced with options issued under the  
 52 

Incentive Plan having the same terms as the
prior options, except that (1) the term of each option that would
otherwise expire prior to the third anniversary of the merger was
extended to the third anniversary of the merger closing and (2) the
period during which such options may be exercised following the
cessation of a director s service was increased from three
months to the earlier of the third anniversary of such cessation of
service and the end of the remaining term of the options. Outstanding
options under the Directors Plan that had an exercise price less than
the closing price of Company common stock on the day before the merger
remain outstanding. On July  22,  2005, non-employee
directors exchanged options to purchase an aggregate of 56,400 Company
shares with exercise prices ranging from $7.75 to $11.75 per share. 
 Information regarding the Stock Plan, the Directors Plan and
Incentive Plan is as follows: 

Total options
exercisable at December  31,  2004 and 2003 were 370,024 and
243,679, respectively. 
 53 

Additional information relating to
outstanding options under the plans as of December  31,  2005
is as follows: 

The fair value of
each option grant, included in the pro forma disclosure of SFAS 123 in
Note 2, is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions: 

The fair value per share of
options granted in 2005 and 2004 was $1.67 and $2.89,
respectively. 
 
 Restricted Stock:     Restricted
stock awards vest four years from the date of the award. Unearned
compensation, representing the fair value of the restricted shares at
the date of the award, is charged to income over the period. At
December  31,  2005, 2004 and 2003, there were no outstanding
restricted stock awards. 
 Note 14    Income Taxes 
 The (benefit from) provision for income taxes for the three
years ended December  31 is as follows: 

54 

A reconciliation of the (benefit
from) provision for income taxes at the Federal statutory rate of
34% to the reported tax (benefit from) income taxes in 2005,
2004 and 2003 is as follows: 

Significant components of
deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December  31 are
as follows: 

The net deferred tax asset at
December 31, 2005 relates to the foreign operations and management
believes that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset
will be realized. The deferred tax assets associated with foreign
operations ($4.5 million) are included in other assets in the
accompanying balance sheet. 
 The Company s federal
net operating loss carry forwards at December  31,  2005 of
approximately $30.6 million expire through 2025. The net operating
losses prior to the merger are subject to limitation under Internal
Revenue Code Section 382. 
 As a result of the Modine
Aftermarket merger in July, 2005, the tax valuation reserve was
increased by $9.4 million. The valuation reserve related to the minimum
pension liability at December 31, 2005  
 55 

was $2.3 million. During the fourth quarter
of 2004, the Company reversed $0.9  million of its tax valuation
reserve in anticipation of the gain recorded in 2005 resulting from the
sale of its Heavy Duty OEM business. 
 At the time of
filing the Company s 2002 tax return, the amount of net
operating loss, which could be carried back, was adjusted due to the
Company s decision to change its method of tax accounting for
several items and the finalization of other amounts which had been
previously estimated. These items resulted in additional tax refunds of
$1.4  million. As the Company s net deferred tax assets are
fully reserved, this refund resulted in a tax benefit which was
included in the results of operations for 2003. 
 The
earnings of foreign subsidiaries are considered permanently reinvested
in the foreign operations and therefore no provision has been made for
U.S. taxes related to these subsidiaries. 
 (Loss) income
from continuing operations before taxes from United States and foreign
sources for the three years ended December  31 is as follows: 

Net income taxes paid
(refunded) during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $1.2 million, $0.4
million, and $(1.9) million, respectively. 
 56 

Note 15    (Loss) Income Per
Share 
 The following table sets forth the
computation of basic and diluted (loss) income per common share for the
years ended December  31: 

57 

The
weighted average basic common shares outstanding was used in the
calculation of the diluted loss per common share for the years ended
December  31,  2005, 2004 and 2003 as the use of weighted
average diluted common shares outstanding would have an anti-dilutive
effect on the loss from continuing operations per share. None of the
options outstanding at December 31, 2005, 2004, or 2003 or Series B
preferred stock were included in the loss per share
calculation. 
 Note 16    Commitments and Contingencies 
 
 Leases:     The Company s leases consist
primarily of manufacturing and distribution facilities and equipment,
which expire between 2006 and 2012. A number of leases require that the
Company pay certain executory costs (taxes, insurance, and maintenance)
and contain renewal and purchase options. Annual rental expense for
operating leases approximated $8.2  million in 2005, $4.8
million in 2004 and $4.8  million in 2003. 
 Future
minimum annual rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases as
of December  31,  2005 were as follows:    $8.3
million in 2006, $5.8  million in 2007, $4.5  million in
2008, $3.4  million in 2009, $1.6  million in 2010 and
$2.3  million thereafter. 
 
 Insurance:     The Company is self-insured for
healthcare, workers compensation, general liability and product
liability claims up to predetermined amounts above which third party
insurance applies. The Company has reserved approximately $2.7
million and $2.8  million to pay such claims as of
December  31,  2005 and 2004, respectively. 
 
 Product Warranties:     As a result of programs
offered by Modine Aftermarket, the Company now provides product
warranties for specific product lines and accrues for estimated future
warranty costs in the period in which the sale is recorded. The most
significant warranty expense estimates are forecasts based on the best
information available using statistical analysis of both historical and
current claim data. 
 Changes in the warranty liability are
as follows: 

Legal
Proceedings:     Various legal actions are pending against or
involve the Company in the ordinary course of business with respect to
such matters as product liability, casualty, environmental and
employment-related claims. 
 Pursuant to an Agreement and
Plan of Merger dated July  23,  1998 (the
  Purchase Agreement  ), the Company acquired
from Paul S. Wilhide (  Wilhide  ) all of the
common stock of EVAP, Inc. The consideration for this transaction was a
payment of $3  million in cash, the issuance of 30,000 shares of
the Company s Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock
(the   Convertible Shares  ), and the potential
for an   earn-out   payment to Wilhide based on
a calculation relating to EVAP s performance during the years
1999 and 2000. There is presently a dispute between the Company and
Wilhide relating to the calculation of the earn-out. Wilhide claims
that the value of his earn-out is $3.75  million, while the
Company believes that Wilhide is not entitled to any earn-out. Under
the payout formula in the Purchase Agreement, any earn-out may be
payable to Wilhide in cash. The Purchase Agreement includes an
arbitration provision and the arbitration is currently proceeding
before an arbitrator in Ft. Worth, Texas. While the arbitration
schedule has not been finalized, it is anticipated that the arbitration
hearing will occur and a decision rendered during 2006. The Company
intends to vigorously defend this matter. Depending on the amount and
timing, an unfavorable resolution of this matter could materially
affect the Company s consolidated financial position, future
operations or cash flows in a particular period. The ultimate outcome
at this time, however, is unknown. 
 
 Environmental
Matters:     The Company is subject to Federal, foreign, state
and local laws designed to protect the environment and believes that,
as a general matter, its policies, practices and procedures
 
 58 

are properly designed to reasonably prevent
risk of environmental damage and financial liability to the Company. On
January  27,  2003, the Company announced that it had
signed a Consent Agreement with the State of Connecticut Department of
Environmental Protection. Under the agreement, the Company will
voluntarily initiate the investigation and cleanup of environmental
contamination on property occupied by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company over 20 years ago. The Company believes there will not be a
material adverse impact to its financial results due to the
investigation and cleanup activities. The Company also does not
currently anticipate any material adverse effect on its consolidated
results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a
result of compliance with Federal, state, local or foreign
environmental laws or regulations. However, risk of environmental
liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with
environmental laws is inherent in the nature of the Company's
business and there is no assurance that material environmental
liabilities and compliance charges will not arise. The Company also
believes it is reasonably possible that environmental-related
liabilities might exist with respect to other industrial sites formerly
owned or occupied by the Company. Based upon environmental site
assessments, the Company believes that the cost of any potential
remediation, other than amounts already provided, for which the Company
may ultimately be responsible will not have a material adverse effect
on the consolidated financial position, results of operations, or
liquidity of the Company. 
 In conjunction with the merger,
Modine retained the environmental liability for environmental
remediation of soil and groundwater contamination at the Mill facility
in The Netherlands, which existed at the time of the merger. As part of
the agreement to sell the Company s Heavy Duty OEM business to
Modine in March  2005, the Company retained responsibility for
any environmental remediation which would result from contamination
existing on the date of the sale at the facility in Jackson,
Mississippi, which was included in the transaction. 
 Note
17    Supplemental Cash Flow Information 
 Supplemental
cash flow information is as follows: 

Note
18    Business Segments 
 Subsequent to the merger with
Modine Aftermarket and the sale of the Heavy Duty OEM business, the
Company has been reorganized into two reporting segments, based upon
the geographic area served   Domestic and International. The
Domestic marketplace supplies heat exchange and air conditioning
products to the automotive and light truck aftermarket and heat
exchange products to the heavy duty aftermarket in the United States
and Canada. The International segment includes heat exchange and air
conditioning products for the automotive and light truck aftermarket
and heat exchange products for the heavy duty aftermarket in Mexico,
Europe and Central America. Each product group within the Domestic
segment constitutes an operating segment and have been aggregated for
reporting business segment information. 
 The table below
sets forth information about the reported segments. Previous
years  data has been restated based upon the new segments. 
 The Company evaluates the performance of its segments and
allocates resources accordingly based on operating income (loss) before
interest and taxes. Intersegment sales are recorded at cost plus a
normal manufacturing profit margin. 
 59 

The tables below set forth
information about continuing operations reported segments for the three
years ended December  31: 

Restructuring and other special
charges included in operating income (loss) for the three years ended
December  31 are as follows: 

In 2005, 2004
and 2003 sales to AutoZone accounted for approximately 17%,
25% and 23% of net sales, respectively. In addition,
Advance Auto Parts accounted for approximately 13%, 17%
and 14% of net sales for 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. These
sales were in the Domestic segment. No other customer individually
represented more than 10% of net trade sales from continuing
operations in any of the years reported. The loss of one of the major
Domestic customers, indicated above, could have a material adverse
effect on the Company s results of operations. 
 Trade sales by the Company s product lines for the
three years ended December  31 are as follows: 

The
principal raw materials used by the Company in its Domestic and
International segments are copper, brass and aluminum. Although these
materials are available from a number of vendors, the Company has
chosen to concentrate its sources with a limited number of long-term
suppliers. The Company believes this strategy results in purchasing and
operating economies. The Company has not experienced any significant
supply problems for these commodities and does not anticipate any
significant supply problems in the foreseeable future. 
 60 

Note 19    Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited) 

Restructuring
expenses for the quarters ended December 31, 2005 were $0.3 million
  1st quarter; $1.1 million   2nd quarter; $2.0 million
  3rd quarter; and $0.9 million   4th quarter. There were
no restructuring expenses in 2004. 
 During the fourth
quarter of 2004, the Company reversed $0.9  million of its tax
valuation reserve in anticipation of the gain to be recorded in 2005
resulting from the sale of its Heavy Duty OEM business, as described in
Note 4. 
 61 

SCHEDULE II 
 Proliance International, Inc. Valuation and Qualifying
Accounts 

(a)   
  Amounts
reflect activity of continuing operations.  

(b)   
  Amounts represent
balances from the Modine Aftermarket business acquisition balance
sheet.  

(c)   
  Includes $0.9
million reversal resulting from the expected gain from the Heavy Duty
OEM business sale in 2005.  

(d)   
  Amount represents
change in the valuation allowance and the deferred tax asset resulting
from minimum pension liability adjustment included in
Shareholders  Equity.  

(e)   
  Represents reserve
required for adjustments associated with new customer added in 2005 and
normal provisions.  

Item 9.    Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure 
 None. 
 Item 9A.    Controls and
Procedures 
 The Company maintains disclosure controls and
procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed in the Company's Exchange Act reports is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
the SEC's rules and forms, and that such information is
accumulated and communicated to the Company's management,
including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as
appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure
based on the definition of   disclosure controls and
procedures   in Rule 13a-15(e). In designing and evaluating
the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any
controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can
provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control
objectives, and management necessarily is required to apply its
judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible
controls and procedures. 
 The Company carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the
Company's management, including the Company's Chief Executive
Officer and the Company's Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company's
disclosure controls and procedures as of December  31,
2005. Based upon the foregoing, the Company's Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company's
disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
 62 

On July  22,  2005, the
Company completed its merger with the aftermarket business of Modine
Manufacturing Company. This acquired business contained over 150
facilities located in North America, Central America and Europe and
involved the addition of 1,400 employees. As part of the post-closing
integration of the merged entity, the Company is engaged in a process
of refining and harmonizing the internal controls and processes of the
acquired business with those of the Company s historical
operations in addition to closing and consolidating facilities. This
process was ongoing during the quarter ended December  31,
2005, and the Company believes that it will be completed in 2006. 
 In addition, during 2005, the Company has begun its project
to become compliant with the requirements of Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act at the end of 2006. To date this involves reviewing
the Company s documentation of control procedures being followed
and improving or strengthening these controls as appropriate. 
 Except as provided in the prior paragraphs, there have been
no changes in the Company's internal controls over financial
reporting during the quarter ended December  31,  2005 that
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company's internal control over financial
reporting. 
 Item 9B.    Other Information 
 None. 
 PART III 
 Item 10.    Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant 
 Portions of the
information required by this item are included in Part I of this
Report. Other information required by this item will be contained in
the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement under the headings
  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance  ,   Code of Ethics  ,
  Board Information and Committees   and
  Proposal 1: Election of Directors   and is
incorporated herein by reference. 
 Item 11.    Executive
Compensation 
 The information contained in the
Company s 2006 Proxy Statement under the headings
  Executive Officer Compensation  ,
  Executive Contracts and Severance and Change of Control
Arrangements  ,   Retirement
Plan  , Directors  Compensation   and
  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation   is incorporated herein by reference. 
 Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
 The
information contained in the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement
under the headings   Which stockholders own at least
5% of Proliance?  ,   How much stock is
owned by directors and executive officers?   and
  Table III Equity Compensation Plan
Information   is incorporated herein by reference. 
 Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 
 The information contained in the Company s 2006 Proxy
Statement under the heading   Additional
Information-Certain Transactions   is incorporated herein
by reference. 
 Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and
Services 
 The information contained in the
Company s 2006 Proxy Statement under the headings
  Proposal 2: Approval of Appointment of Proliance s
Independent Accountants   and   Audit Committee
Pre-Approval Policy   is incorporated herein by
reference. 
 PART IV 
 Item 15.    Exhibits and
Financial Statement Schedules 

(a)
(1)  
 Financial Statements of the Registrant 

63 

See Consolidated Financial Statements
under Item 8 of this Report. 

(a)
(2)  
 Financial Statement Schedules 

See
Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts under Item 8 of this
Report. 
 Schedules other than the schedule listed above are
omitted because they are not applicable, or because the information is
furnished elsewhere in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the
Notes thereto. 

(a) (3)  
 Exhibits 

The information required by this Item relating to Exhibits to
this Report is included in the Exhibit Index in (b) below. 

(b)  
 Exhibits -The following exhibits are
filed as part of this report: 

2.1  
   
  Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January  31,
2005, among Modine Manufacturing Company, Modine Aftermarket Holdings,
Inc. and Transpro. (8)   

2.2  
   
  Contribution Agreement, dated as of January  31,  2005,
among Modine Aftermarket Holdings, Inc., Modine Manufacturing Company,
Modine, Inc. and Transpro. (8)   

2.3  
   
  OEM Acquisition Agreement, dated as of January  31,
2005, between Modine Manufacturing Company and
Transpro. (8)   

2.4  
   
  Amendment to
OEM Acquisition Agreement, dated as of March  1,  2005,
between Modine Manufacturing Company and
Transpro. (9)   

2.5  
   
  Amendment to
Agreement and Plan of Merger by letter dated June  16,
2005 between Transpro, Inc., Modine Manufacturing Company and Modine
Aftermarket Holdings, Inc. (15)   

3.1(i)  
   
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
Proliance International, Inc. (14)   

3.1(ii)  
   
  By-laws of Proliance International, Inc., as
amended. (14)   

4.1  
   
  Loan and
Security Agreement dated as of January  4,  2001, by and
between Congress Financial Corporation (New England) as Lender and
Transpro, Inc., Ready-Aire, Inc., and GO/DAN Industries, Inc. as
Borrowers. (2)   

4.2  
   
  First
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (3)   

4.3  
   
  Second
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (3)   

4.4  
   
  Third
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (4)   

4.5  
   
  Fourth
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (4)   

4.6  
   
  Fifth
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (4)   

4.7  
   
  Sixth
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (4)   

4.8  
   
  Seventh
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (5)   

4.9  
   
  Eighth
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (6)   

4.10  
   
  Ninth
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (7)   

4.11  
   
  Tenth
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (10)   

4.12  
   
  Eleventh
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (9)   

4.13  
   
  Twelfth
Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (14)   

64 

4.14  
   
  Thirteenth Amendment
to Loan and Security Agreement with Congress Financial
Corporation. (12)   

10.1  
   
  Transpro,
Inc. 1995 Stock Plan. (1)   

10.2  
   
  Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 1995 Stock
Plan. (1)   

10.3  
   
  Transpro, Inc.
1995 Non-employee Directors Stock Option Plan. (1)   

10.4  
   
  Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 1995
Non-employee Directors Stock Option Plan. (1)   

10.5  
   
  Form of Key Employee Severance
Policy. (1)   

10.6  
   
  Letter
Agreement, dated December  15,  1992 between Jeffrey J.
Jackson and GO/DAN Industries. (1)   

10.7  
   
  Employment Agreement between the Company and
Charles E. Johnson. (3)   

10.8  
   
  Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement between the Company and
Charles E. Johnson. (11)   

10.9  
   
  Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (Director Replacement
Option). (13)   

10.10  
   
  Director and
Officer Indemnification Agreement. (14)   

10.11  
   
  Aftermarket License Agreement between Modine
Manufacturing Company and Modine Aftermarket Holdings,
Inc. (14)   

10.12  
   
  Proliance
International, Inc. Equity Incentive Plan. (14)   

10.13  
   
  Tax Sharing Agreement between Modine
Manufacturing Company and Transpro, Inc. (16)   

21.1  
   
  Subsidiaries of the Company.  

23.1  
   
  Consent of BDO Seidman, LLP.  

23.2  
   
  Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP.  

24  
   
  Powers of Attorney (included on
signature page).  

31.1  
   
  Certification of CEO
in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  

31.2  
   
  Certification of CFO in accordance with Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  

32.1  
   
  Certification of CEO in accordance with Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.  

32.2  
   
  Certification of
CFO in accordance with Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act.  

65 

(c)  
 Other Financial Information 

None. 
 66 

SIGNATURES 
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized. 

Proliance International, Inc.   

Date: March 31, 2006  
   
  By  
   
  /s/ CHARLES E. JOHNSON  

Charles E. Johnson President and Chief Executive
Officer  

POWER OF ATTORNEY 
 Each
of the undersigned hereby appoints Paul R. Lederer and Charles E.
Johnson and each of them severally, his or her true and lawful
attorneys to execute on behalf of the undersigned any and all
amendments to this annual report on Form 10-K and to file the same,
with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith,
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Each such attorney will
have the power to act hereunder with or without the others. Each of the
undersigned hereby ratifies and confirms all such attorneys, or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue thereof. 
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. 
 
 67 

<EX-21.1>
 5
 file002.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

EXHIBIT
21.1 
 SUBSIDIARIES OF PROLIANCE INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
 The following sets forth a list of all the direct and
indirect subsidiaries as of December   31,   2005 of
Proliance International, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
  Company  ), and the State or other
jurisdiction of incorporation or organization of each. 

Name  
   
  Jurisdiction
of  Incorporation or Organization  

Proliance
International de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
   
  Mexico  

Radiadores GDI, S.A. de C.V. (a)   
   
  Mexico  

Ready Aire, Inc.  
   
  Texas  

Manufacturera Mexicana de Partes de
Automoviles, S.A.de C.V.  
   
  Mexico  

Nederlandse Radiateuren Fabriek B.V.  
   
  The
Netherlands  

Modine National Sales, Ltd.  
   
  Canada  

(a)   
  Currently
an inactive subsidiary.  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 file003.htm
 CONSETN OF BDO SEIDMAN, LLP

EXHIBIT
23.1 
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM 
 We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference
in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-80871, 33-98148,
33-98150, 333-119829 and 333-129888) of Proliance International, Inc.
of our report dated March 30, 2006 relating to the financial statements
and the financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form
10-K. 
 /s/ BDO Seidman, LLP New York,
NY March 30, 2006 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 7
 file004.htm
 CONSENT OF PWC

EXHIBIT
23.2 
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM 
 We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference
in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-80871,
33-98148, 33-98150, 333-129888 and 333-119829) of Proliance
International, Inc. (formerly known as Transpro, Inc.) of our report
dated March  17, 2004 except for Note 4, for which the date is
June  14,  2005, relating to the consolidated statements of
operations, cash flows, and changes in stockholders  equity for
the year ended December  31,  2003 and the financial
statement schedule for the year ended December  31,  2003,
which appear in this Form 10-K. 
 /s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Hartford, CT March 30,
2006 

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 file005.htm
 CERTIFICATION 302 CEO

Exhibit
31.1 
 CERTIFICATION 
 I, Charles E. Johnson,
certify that: 
 1.    I have reviewed this annual report
on Form 10-K of Proliance International, Inc.; 
 2.    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain
any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 
 3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly present in
all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this report; 
 4.    The registrant s other
certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 
 a)    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 
 b)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
 c)    Disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual
report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and 
 5.    The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions): 
 a)    All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and 
 b)    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006  
   
  /s/ Charles
E. Johnson  

Charles E. Johnson President and
Chief Executive
Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 file006.htm
 CERTIFICATION 302 CFO

Exhibit
31.2 
 CERTIFICATION 
 I, Richard A. Wisot, certify
that: 
 1.    I have reviewed this annual report on Form
10-K of Proliance International, Inc.; 
 2.    Based on
my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered
by this report; 
 3.    Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this
report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
 4.    The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 
 a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 
 b)    Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in
this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 
 c)    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 
 5.    The registrant s other certifying officer(s)
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors
and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions): 
 a)    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 
 b)    Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006  
   
  /s/ Richard
A. Wisot  

Richard A. Wisot Chief Financial
Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 file007.htm
 CERTIFICATION 906 CEO

Exhibit
32.1 
 Certification of Periodic Financial Report 
 Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, the undersigned, Charles E.
Johnson, the chief executive officer of Proliance International, Inc.
(the   issuer  ), does hereby certify that the
report on Form 10-K accompanying this certification (the
  report  ) fully complies with the
requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) and that information contained in the
report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the issuer. 
 
 /s/ Charles E.
Johnson                                 
 
Charles E. Johnson  President and Chief Executive Officer  (chief
executive officer)  Proliance International, Inc.  March 31,
2006 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 file008.htm
 CERTIFICATION 906 CFO

Exhibit
32.2 
 Certification of Periodic Financial Report 
 Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, the undersigned, Richard A.
Wisot, the chief financial officer of Proliance International, Inc.
(the   issuer  ), does hereby certify that the
report on Form 10-K accompanying this certification (the
  report  ) fully complies with the
requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) and that information contained in the
report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the issuer. 
 
 /s/ Richard A.
Wisot                                         
 
Richard A. Wisot  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(chief financial officer)  Proliance International, Inc.  Date:
March 31, 2006 

</EX-32.2>

