<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_929545_0001193125-06-070014_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1496438</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>414416</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>883595</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>57</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-06-070014.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331121751
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-06-070014
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SUPERTEL HOSPITALITY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000929545
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				521889548
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			VA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1205

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-25060
		FILM NUMBER:		06726641

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		309 NORTH FIFTH STREET
		CITY:			NORFOLK
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68701
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4023712520

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		309 NORTH FIFTH STREET
		CITY:			NORFOLK
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68701

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	HUMPHREY HOSPITALITY TRUST INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940906

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 RhBdCGtpNn0+0iLXrk7Adwhl2B0lYcE1B+uKkuGNOD5B7MDCZ4JDLg6Wt+UEq0i4
 XSbPiOwNaJcUMfBnpAB06Q==

 0001193125-06-070014.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549             FORM 10-K             

     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005        OR        
     For the transition period from                to
                      Commission file number: 0-25060             Supertel Hospitality, Inc.
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)             
     (402) 371-2520        (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)        None        (Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)             Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
   None   
     
   None    
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:        Common Stock, $.01 par value per share        Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, $.01 par value per share            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange
Act.    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes         No             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of
 accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.    Large accelerated filer           Accelerated filer           Non-accelerated filer           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes           No           As of June 30, 2005 the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $38,045,000 based
on the $4.15 closing price as reported on the Nasdaq National Market.      Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
issuer s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.       
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE        

Document    
     
     Parts Into Which Incorporated     
 
  Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 25, 2006 (Proxy Statement)  
     
  Part III   

Table of Contents  

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Item No.    

Form 10-K Report       Page     

PART I    

1.   

Business   
      
  3   
 
    1A.   

Risk Factors   
      
  7   
 
    1B.   

Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  17   
 
    2.   

Properties   
      
  17   
 
    3.   

Legal Proceedings   
      
  18   
 
    4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  18   

PART II   

5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  18   
 
    6.   

Selected Financial Data   
      
  19   
 
    7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  21   
 
    7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   
      
  29   
 
    8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  31   
 
    9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  65   
 
    9A.   

Controls and Procedures   
      
  65   
 
    9B.   

Other Information   
      
  65   

PART III   

10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   
      
  65   
 
    11.   

Executive Compensation   
      
  65   
 
    12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  66   
 
    13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   
      
  66   
 
    14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  66   

PART IV   

15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
      
  66   
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

PART I        
  Item 1. Business        Overview       We are a self-administered real estate investment trust ( REIT ), and through our subsidiaries, we own 76 limited service hotels in 17 states. Our hotels operate under several national franchise brands.
     Our significant events for 2005 include:       

our name change from Humphrey Hospitality Trust, Inc. to Supertel Hospitality, Inc.; and trading symbol change of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market from
 HUMP  to  SPPR .         

the acquisition of seven hotels;         

Available Information       Our executive offices are
located at 309 N. 5   th    St, Norfolk, Nebraska 68701, our telephone number is (402) 371-2520, and we maintain an
Internet website located at www.supertelinc.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are filed with the SEC. We also make available the charters of our board committees and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics on our website. Copies of these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests
them. Requests should be sent to Supertel Hospitality, Inc., 309 N. 5   th    St, P.O. Box 1448, Norfolk, Nebraska 68701,
Attn: Corporate Secretary.       (a) General Development of Business       We are a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes and we were incorporated in Virginia on August 23, 1994. Our common stock began to trade on The Nasdaq National Market on October 30,
1996. Our preferred stock began to trade on The Nasdaq National Market on December 30, 2005.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

   Through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Supertel Hospitality REIT Trust and E P REIT Trust, we own a
controlling interest in Supertel Limited Partnership and E P Financing Limited Partnership. As of December 31, 2005, we owned an approximately 96% general partnership interest in Supertel Limited Partnership and a 100% interest in E P
Financing Limited Partnership. Supertel Limited Partnership owns a 100% interest in Solomons GP, LLC which owns a 99% general partnership interest in Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership. We own the remaining 1% limited partnership interest in
Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership and we own a 100% interest in Supertel Hospitality Management, Inc. Supertel Limited Partnership also owns a 100% interest in SPPR-South Bend, LLC and 99% interest in SPPR-Hotels, LLC. The remaining 1%
interest in SPPR-Hotels, LLC is owned by SPPR Holdings, Inc, our wholly owned subsidiary.      Under the REIT Modernization Act
( RMA ), which became effective January 1, 2000, REITs are permitted to lease their hotels to wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. We formed TRS Leasing, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries TRS Subsidiary LLC and SPPR TRS
Subsidiary, LLC (collectively the  TRS Lessee ) in accordance with the RMA. Pursuant to the RMA, the TRS Lessee is required to enter into management agreements with an  eligible independent contractor  who will manage the hotels
leased by the TRS Lessee. Accordingly the hotels are leased to our taxable TRS Lessee and are managed by Royal Host Management, Inc. Royal Host Management is a subsidiary of Royal Host Inc., a Canada based publicly owned real estate investment
trust.       (b) Financial Information About Industry Segments       We are engaged primarily in the business of owning equity interests in hotel properties. Therefore, presentation of information about industry segments is not applicable. See the Consolidated Financial Statements and
notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for certain financial information required in this Item 1.       (c) Narrative
Description of Business        General  At December 31, 2005, we owned, through our subsidiaries, 76 hotels in 17 states. The
hotels are operated by Royal Host Management. Our primary objective is to increase shareholder value through increasing the operating returns of the hotels, and by acquiring equity interests in hotels that meet our investment criteria.   
   Internal Growth Strategy  We anticipate using our net earnings and available cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and make ongoing
capital improvements, including furniture, fixtures and equipment, to our hotels. Excess funds after those uses, if any, will be used for internal growth or reduction of debt.       Acquisition Strategy  Any acquisition, investment or purchase of property requires approval of the Investment Committee of our board of directors.
Our general investment criteria are described below:       

nationally franchised hotels in locations with relatively high demand for rooms, relatively low supply of competing hotels and significant barriers to entry into the hotel business,
such as a scarcity of suitable hotel sites or zoning restrictions;         

hotels which could benefit from new management, a new marketing strategy and association with a national franchisor;         

hotels which could benefit significantly from renovations; and         

hotels in attractive locations that could benefit by changing franchises to a grade that is more appropriate for the location and clientele.           
   4   

Table of Contents  

   We acquired seven hotels in 2005 through our subsidiaries. The following table reflects additional
information regarding each of these hotels:       
     Development Strategy  Subject to market conditions and the availability of financing, we may
selectively grow through the development of new limited-service hotel properties. We are interested in sites that offer the potential to attract a diverse mix of market segments.      Our site selection criteria include some or all of the following characteristics:       

urban or resort locations with relatively high demand for rooms, a relatively low supply of competing hotels and significant barriers to entry in the hotel business;

areas that have strong industrial bases with the potential for future growth;         

communities with state or federal installations, colleges or universities; and         

sites that currently have an aging hotel presence.        These
criteria describe the basic characteristics that we look for prior to committing to the development of a new hotel. Sites that are selected may have some or all of the market characteristics described above, as well as characteristics that are not
specifically described herein. Sites selected by us will not necessairly possess all of these characteristics.       Sale of Hotels  We
may undertake the sale of one or more of the hotels from time to time in response to changes in market conditions, our current or projected return on our investment in the hotels or other factors which the board of directors deems relevant. We
undertook a specific disposition program beginning in 2001 that included the sale of 23 hotels through December 31, 2004. The proceeds from the sale of these hotels were used primarily to repay existing debt. We did not sell any hotels in 2005
and none of our hotels were classified as being held for sale as of December 31, 2005; however, we may sell additional hotels in the future as market conditions and other factors so warrant.       Operating Practices  We are advised by Royal Host Management that it utilizes a centralized accounting and data processing system, which
facilitates financial statement and budget preparation, payroll management, internal auditing and other support functions for the on-site hotel management team.      Royal Host Management advises us that each hotel it manages employs a general manager who is responsible for the overall operations of the hotel. The general managers report to regional directors. Royal Host
Management also utilizes senior managers who assist the regional directors in the mentoring of newer managers and/or assisting properties needing additional resources. As a management company, we are advised by Royal Host Management that it actively
seeks feedback from the general managers through a manager advisory board comprised         
   5   

Table of Contents  

   of managers nominated by the regional directors from each territory. Daily operations are managed using a centralized
approach led by regional directors. Royal Host Management advises us that its strategy is to encourage decision-making by those people closest to the hotel operation level at the lowest administrative cost.      The principal provisions of our management agreement with Royal Host Management are as follows:       

Royal Host Management is paid a base fee equal to 4.75% of gross hotel income with respect to 70 of our hotels and 4% of gross hotel income with respect to 6 of our hotels;

if annual net operating income exceeds 10% of our total investment in the hotels, then Royal Host receives an incentive fee of 10% of the excess of operating income up to the first
$1 million, and 20% of excess net operating income above $1 million;         

the agreement runs through December 31, 2009 and is automatically extended for five years thereafter if specific net operating income levels are achieved, subject to Royal Host
Management s option not to extend the agreement;         

either of us may terminate the agreement if net operating income is not at least 8.5% of our total investment in the hotels or if we undergo a change in control (if we terminate the
agreement for the change in control, then we pay Royal Host Management a termination fee equal to 50% of its basic management fee for the prior 12 months);         

we may terminate the agreement if any of the hotels fails three successive franchisor inspections if the deficiencies are within the reasonable control of Royal Host Management; and

we may also terminate the agreement if tax laws change to allow a hotel REIT to self manage its properties (in which event we would pay Royal Host Management a termination fee equal
to 50% of its basic management fee for the prior 12 months.           
   6   

Table of Contents  

   The hotels currently operate under the following franchise brands:       

Franchise Brand    
      
   Number of Hotels   

(a)   
      
  Super 8  
      
  44  

(b)   
      
  Comfort Inn/Comfort Suites  
      
  20  

(c)   
      
  Hampton Inn  
      
  4  

(d)   
      
  Holiday Inn Express  
      
  3  

(b)   
      
  Sleep Inn  
      
  1  

(a)   
      
  Days Inn  
      
  1  

(a)   
      
  Ramada Limited  
      
  1  

(e)   
      
  Guest House Inn  
      
  1  

(f)   
      
  Suites at Key Largo  
      
  1  

Franchise Information   

(a)  
      
  Super 8 , Ramada Limited , and Days Inn  are registered trademarks of Cendant, Inc.   

(b)  
      
  Comfort Inn , Comfort Suites  and Sleep Inn  are registered trademarks of Choice Hotels International, Inc.   

(c)  
      
  Hampton Inn  is a registered trademark of Hilton Hotels Corporation.   

(d)  
      
  Holiday Inn Express  is a registered trademark of Six Continents Hotels, Inc.   

(e)  
      
  Guesthouse  is a registered trademark of Guesthouse International Franchise Systems, Inc.   

(f)  
      
  Suites at Key Largo is an independent boutique suites property with a 30 bay marina.   
     Seasonality of Hotel Business  The hotel industry is seasonal in nature. Generally, revenues
for hotels operating in the geographic areas in which we operate are greater in the second and third quarters of the calendar year than in the first and fourth quarters, with the exception of our hotels located in Florida, which experience peak
demand in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Historically, overall hotel operations reflect this seasonal pattern.       Competition  The hotel industry is highly competitive. Each of our hotels is located in a developed area that includes other hotel properties. The number of competitive hotel properties in a particular area could have a material
adverse effect on revenues, occupancy and the average daily room rate of the hotels or at hotel properties acquired or developed in the future. A number of our hotels have experienced increased competition in the form of newly constructed competing
hotels in the local markets, and we expect the entry of new competition to continue in several additional markets over the next several years.      We may compete for investment opportunities with entities that have substantially greater financial resources than us. These entities generally may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage. Competition in general may reduce
the number of suitable investment opportunities for us and increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. Further, we believe that competition from entities organized for purposes substantially similar to our objectives could
increase significantly.       Employees  At December 31, 2005, we had 13 employees. Royal Host Management, the manager of our hotels,
has a workforce of approximately 1,245 employees dedicated to the operation of the hotels.       
  Item 1A. RISK FACTORS       The following risk factors describe various risks that may affect our business,
financial condition and operations.       Our failure to qualify as a REIT under the federal tax laws would result in adverse tax consequences.
      We have operated and intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, the
REIT qualification requirements are extremely complicated and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we have been or will continue to be successful in
operating as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

   If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be required to pay federal income tax on
our taxable income and our taxable income would be computed without a dividends paid deduction. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay the tax. Our payment of income tax likely would substantially decrease the amounts available
to be paid out to our shareholders. In addition, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to our shareholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT is excused under the federal income tax laws, we could
not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we fail to qualify.       An economic recession and industry downturn
could adversely affect our results of operations.       If room supply outpaces demand, our operating margins may deteriorate and we may be
unable to execute our business plan. In addition, if this trend continues, we may be unable to continue to meet our debt service obligations or to obtain necessary additional financing.       We have restrictive debt covenants that could adversely affect our ability to run our business.       We
file quarterly loan compliance certificates with certain of our lenders. As of September 30, 2004, we requested and received a loan-to-value and a debt service ratio waiver with respect to a term loan with First National Bank of Omaha N.A. On
February 17, 2005, the bank agreed to a covenant modification effective through June 30, 2006, providing for a lower loan-to-value ratio and debt service coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all other loan covenants during 2005.
     Weakness in the economy, and the lodging industry at large, may result in our non-compliance with our loan covenants. Such non-compliance
with our covenants may result in our lenders restricting the use of our operating funds for capital improvements to our existing hotels, including improvements required by our franchise agreements. We cannot assure you that our loan covenants will
permit us to maintain our historic business strategy.       Our restrictive debt covenants may jeopardize our tax status as a REIT.       To maintain our REIT tax status, we generally must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income annually. In addition, we are subject to a 4%
non-deductible excise tax if the actual amount distributed to shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the federal income tax laws. We have previously announced a general dividend policy of paying out
approximately 100% of annual REIT taxable income. In the event we do not comply with our debt service obligations, our lenders may limit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders, which could adversely affect our REIT tax status.
      Our failure to have distributed old Supertel Hospitality, Inc. s earnings and profits may compromise our tax status.       At the end of any taxable year, a REIT may not have any accumulated earnings and profits (described generally for federal income tax purposes as
cumulative undistributed net income) from a non-REIT corporation. In October 1999, our company and the old Supertel Hospitality, Inc. merged. We were the surviving entity in the merger and in May 2005 we changed our name to Supertel Hospitality,
Inc. Prior to the effective time of the merger between our company and old Supertel Hospitality, Inc., old Supertel paid a dividend to its stockholders of record in the amount of its accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes.
Accordingly, we should not have succeeded to any of the then current and accumulated earnings and profits of Supertel. However, the determination of accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes is extremely complex and
Supertel s computations of its accumulated earnings and profits are not binding upon the Internal Revenue Service. Should the IRS successfully assert that the old Supertel s accumulated earnings and profits were greater than the amount
distributed by Supertel, we may fail to qualify as a REIT.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

    Our sale of assets acquired in a 1999 merger within ten years of the merger will result in tax.       In connection with our election to be taxed as a REIT, we have elected to be subject to the  built-in gain  rules. Under these rules, taxes may
be payable at the time and to the extent that the net unrealized gains on assets acquired, which included hotels, in the 1999 merger with the old Supertel Hospitality, Inc. are recognized in taxable dispositions of such assets in the subsequent
ten-year period. This ten-year period expires October 2009. We recognized built-in gains taxes of $286,000 due to dispositions of five of those hotels in 2004.       Our debt service obligations could require us to liquidate our properties and may reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders.       As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $92.0 million of existing indebtedness with maturity dates ranging from November 2006 to 2024. Approximately $5.4 million of principal is due in 2006 and $12.4
million is due in 2007. We cannot assure you that we will be able to re-finance or repay such debt when due or that the terms of any new debt financings will be as favorable to us as the terms of our existing debt financing.      Adverse economic conditions could result in higher interest rates and other unfavorable terms on our current and future borrowings. Higher interest rates
could increase debt service requirements on floating rate debt and could reduce the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. In the past, we have obtained, and may obtain in the future, one or more forms of interest rate protection in
the form of swap agreements, interest rate cap contracts or similar agreements to  hedge  against the possible negative effects of interest rate fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that any hedging will relieve the adverse effects
of interest rate fluctuations.      In order to meet our debt service obligations, we may have to sell additional hotel investments,
potentially at a loss or at times that prohibit us from achieving attractive returns. Failure to pay our indebtedness when due or failure to cure covenant defaults could result in higher interest rates during the period of such loan defaults, and
could ultimately result in the loss of our hotels through lender foreclosure.       Our ability to make distributions to our shareholders is subject to
fluctuations in our financial performance and operating results as well as capital improvement requirements.       In the event of downturns
in our operating results and financial performance, or unanticipated capital improvements to our hotels, including capital improvements that may be required by our franchisors, we may need to reduce the amount of distributions to our shareholders.
The amount and timing of distributions are in the sole discretion of our board of directors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash in order to fund future distributions or that any future distributions are likely to
be at the same rate as our historical distributions.      Among the factors that could adversely affect our results of operations and our
distributions to shareholders are: decreased revenue per available room and reduced net operating profits or operating losses; increased debt service requirements, including those resulting from higher interest rates on our variable rate
indebtedness; and capital expenditures at our hotels, including capital expenditures required by the franchisors of our hotels. Hotel revenue can decrease for a number of reasons, including increased competition from new hotel rooms and decreased
demand for hotel rooms. These factors can reduce both occupancy and room rates at our hotels.       Our returns depend on management of our hotels by third
parties.       In order to qualify as a REIT, we cannot operate any hotel or participate in the decisions affecting the daily operations of
any hotel. Under the REIT Modernization Act of 1999, REITs are permitted to lease their hotels to wholly-owned lessees such as TRS Lessee. However, TRS Lessee may not operate the leased hotels and, therefore, must enter into management agreements
with third-party eligible independent contractors to manage the hotels. Thus, an independent operator under a management agreement with TRS Lessee controls the daily operations of each of our hotels.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

   Under the terms of such management agreement, our ability to participate in operating decisions regarding
the hotels is limited. We depend on Royal Host Management to adequately operate our hotels as provided in the management agreement. We do not have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular
aspect of the daily operations of any hotel (for instance, setting room rates). Thus, even if we believe our hotels are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, revenue per available room and
average daily rates, we may not be able to force Royal Host Management to change its method of operation of our hotels. We can only seek redress if a management company violates the terms of the applicable management agreement with TRS lessee, and
then only to the extent of the remedies provided for under the terms of the management agreement. Additionally, in the event that we need to replace our management company, we may experience decreased occupancy and other significant disruptions at
our hotels and in our operations generally.       Our ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be affected by factors in the hotel industry that
are beyond our control.        Operating Risks        Our hotels are subject to various operating risks found throughout the hotel industry. Many of these risks are beyond our control. These include, among other things, the following:       

our hotels compete with other hotel properties in their respective geographic markets, and many of our competitors have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than
we do;         

over-building in our markets, which adversely affects occupancy and revenues at our hotels;         

dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism;         

terrorist incidents which may deter travel;         

increases in energy costs, airline fares and other expenses, which may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists; and

adverse effects of general, regional and local economic conditions.        These factors could adversely affect the amount of rent we receive from leasing our hotels and reduce the net operating profits of TRS Lessee, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to
our shareholders. Decreases in room revenues of our hotels will result in reduced operating profits for TRS Lessee and decreased lease revenues to our company under our current percentage leases with TRS Lessee.       Competition for Acquisitions        We
compete for investment opportunities with entities that have substantially greater financial resources than we do. These entities generally may be able to accept more risk than we can manage wisely. This competition may generally limit the number of
suitable investment opportunities offered to us. This competition may also increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new properties on attractive terms.       Seasonality of Hotel Business        The
hotel industry is seasonal in nature. Generally, occupancy rates and hotel revenues are greater in the         
   10   

Table of Contents  

   second and third quarters than in the first and fourth quarters, with the exception of our hotels located in Florida.
This seasonality can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our lease revenues. Our quarterly earnings may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including bad weather conditions and poor economic factors. As a result, we may
have to enter into short-term borrowings in our first and fourth quarters in order to offset these fluctuations in revenues.       Investment
Concentration in Particular Segments of Single Industry        Our entire business is hotel-related. Our investment strategy is to acquire
interests in limited service hotel properties. Therefore, a downturn in the hotel industry in general and the limited service segment in which we operate in particular will have a material adverse effect on our lease revenues and amounts available
for distribution to our shareholders.       Capital Expenditures        Our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and
equipment. The franchisors of our hotels also require periodic capital improvements as a condition of keeping the franchise licenses. The costs of all of these capital improvements could adversely affect our financial condition and reduce the
amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. These renovations may give rise to the following risks:       

possible environmental problems;         

construction cost overruns and delays;         

a possible shortage of available cash to fund renovations and the related possibility that financing for these renovations may not be available to us on affordable terms; and

uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after renovations have begun.        For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, we spent approximately $4.9 million for capital improvements to our hotels.       Investment risks in the real estate industry generally may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.        General Risks of Investing in Real Estate        Our investments in hotels are subject to varying degrees of risk that generally
arise from the ownership of real property. The underlying value of our real estate investments, and our income and ability to make distributions to our shareholders depends on maintaining or increasing room revenues and operating income of our
hotels. Both income from our hotels and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected by changes beyond our control, TRS Lessee s control and the hotels  managers  control, including the following:

adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions;         

changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing;         

changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances;

the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures;           
   11   

Table of Contents  

changes in operating expenses;         

civil unrest, acts of war and acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses; and

the relative illiquidity of real estate investments.         Uninsured and Underinsured Losses        We maintain comprehensive insurance on each of our hotels, including liability, fire and
extended coverage of the type and amount we believe are customarily obtained for or by hotel owners. However, various types of catastrophic losses, like earthquakes, floods and wars, may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable. In the
event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be able to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other
factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the
damaged or destroyed property. If an uninsured loss occurs, we may lose both our invested capital and anticipated profits from the property. Our insurance premiums may increase significantly in the future, which may have a materially adverse impact
on our cash flow. Furthermore, we may not be able to purchase policies in the future with coverage limits and deductibles similar to those purchased for the year 2006. Because it is impossible to determine what kind of policies will be available in
the future and at what prices, we are unable to determine whether we will be able to maintain insurance coverage levels similar to those secured for 2006. Our real property insurance policies put into effect on December 31, 2004 include limited
terrorism coverage, except for acts of war.       Increases in property taxes could adversely affect our cash flow.       Real and personal property taxes on our current and future hotel properties may increase as property tax rates change and as the properties are assessed
or reassessed by taxing authorities. An increase in property taxes could have an adverse effect on our ability to make distributions to shareholders.       Increases in occupancy taxes and other local taxes could adversely affect our cash flow.       The cities and counties in which
our hotels operate periodically attempt to increase their revenue by imposing additional local taxes, which may be assessed both on the room charges to our customers and on a per diem basis. Because of our negotiated room rates for some customers
and market circumstances generally, we may not be able to fully pass on these charges to our customers, and so an increase in these taxes could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to shareholders.
      Operating our hotels under franchise agreements could adversely affect distributions to our shareholders.       Seventy Five of our hotels operate under franchise agreements and we are subject to the risks of concentrating our hotel investments in several franchise
brands. These risks include reductions in business following negative publicity related to one of our particular brands. Risks associated with our brands could adversely affect our lease revenues and the amounts available for distribution to our
shareholders.      The maintenance of the franchise licenses for our hotels is subject to our franchisors  operating standards and other
terms and conditions. Our franchisors periodically inspect our hotels to ensure that we and TRS Lessee follow their standards. Failure to maintain these standards or other terms and conditions could result in a franchise license being canceled. As a
condition of our continued holding of a franchise license, a franchisor could also possibly require us to make capital expenditures, even if we do not believe the capital improvements are necessary or desirable or will result in an acceptable return
on our investment. Nonetheless, we may risk losing a franchise license if we do not make franchisor-required capital expenditures.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

   If a franchisor terminates the franchise license, we may try either to obtain a suitable replacement
franchise or to operate the hotel without a franchise license. The loss of a franchise license could materially and adversely affect the operations or the underlying value of the hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing
support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. As of December 31, 2005, TRS Lessee holds all of the franchise licenses for our hotels. Loss of a franchise license for one or more hotels could materially and adversely
affect our revenues. This loss of revenues could, therefore, also adversely affect our cash available for distribution to shareholders.       Our inability
to obtain financing could limit our growth.       We are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders
each year in order to continue to qualify as a REIT. Our debt service obligations and distribution requirements limit our ability to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions and hotel development through retained earnings. Our ability to grow through
acquisitions or development of hotels will be limited if we cannot obtain debt or equity financing.      Neither our articles of incorporation
nor our bylaws limit the amount of debt we can incur. Our board can implement and modify a debt limitation policy without shareholder approval. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional equity financing or debt financing or that
we will be able to obtain any financing on favorable terms.       Noncompliance with governmental regulations could adversely affect our operating results.
       Environmental Matters        Our hotel properties are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require the owner of a contaminated property to clean up the property, even if
the owner did not know of or was not responsible for the contamination. These laws also apply to persons who owned a property at the time it became contaminated. In addition to the costs of cleanup, contamination can affect the value of a property
and, therefore, an owner s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Under these environmental laws, courts and government agencies also have the authority to require that a person who sent waste to a waste disposal facility,
like a landfill or an incinerator, pay for the clean-up of that facility if it becomes contaminated and threatens human health or the environment. Furthermore, court decisions have established that third parties may recover damages for injury caused
by property contamination. For instance, a person exposed to asbestos while staying in a hotel may seek to recover damages if he suffers injury from the asbestos. Lastly, some of these environmental laws restrict the use of a property or place
conditions on various activities at a property. One example is laws that require a business using chemicals to manage them carefully and to notify local officials that the chemicals are being used.      Our company could be responsible for the costs discussed above if it found itself in one or more of these situations. The costs to clean up a
contaminated property, to defend against a claim, or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could affect the funds available for distribution to our shareholders. To determine whether any costs of this nature might be required, we
commissioned Phase I environmental site assessments, or  ESAs  before we acquired our hotels, and in 2002, commissioned new ESAs for 32 of our hotels in conjunction with a refinancing of the debt obligations of those hotels. These studies
typically included a review of historical information and a site visit, but not soil or groundwater testing. We obtained the ESAs to help us identify whether we might be responsible for cleanup costs or other costs in connection with our hotels. The
ESAs on our hotels did not reveal any environmental conditions that are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, results of operations or liquidity. However, ESAs do not always identify all potential problems or
environmental liabilities. Consequently, we may have material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

    Americans with Disabilities Act and Other Changes in Governmental Rules and Regulations  
     Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the  ADA,  all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements
related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA s requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants obtaining damages. If
we were required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and meet our other obligations could be
adversely affected.       Mold claims could adversely affect our financial condition.       Public consciousness regarding mold has recently been elevated and if mold is detected in any of our hotels, we may be subject to adverse publicity, which
could adversely affect our operations and financial results from that hotel. Such claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or pay significant damages. In addition, we may be required to close all or portions of the
affected hotel during mold remediation operations, which under certain conditions may be difficult to eradicate. We may be required to remove and replace moldy materials in the hotel, or perform extensive facility repairs, and the presence of mold
in any hotel also could adversely impact the fair market value of that hotel.       Provisions of our articles of incorporation and Virginia law may limit
the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company.        Ownership Limitation        Our articles of incorporation provide that no person may directly or indirectly own more than 9.9% of our common stock or 9.9% of any series of our
preferred stock. This may prevent an acquisition of control of our company by a third party without our board s approval, even if our shareholders believe the change of control is in their interest.       Authority to Issue Preferred Stock        Our articles of incorporation authorize our board to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may have the effect of
delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, including transactions at a premium over the market price of our capital stock, even if shareholders believe that a change of control is in their interest.       Virginia Anti-Takeover Statutes        As
a Virginia corporation, we are subject to various anti-takeover laws found in the Virginia Stock Corporation Act. These laws place restrictions and require compliance with various procedures designed to protect the shareholders of Virginia
corporations against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. These restrictions and procedural requirements may discourage takeover offers for, or changes in control of, our company, including transactions at a premium over the market price of
our capital stock, even if shareholders believe that a change of control is in their interest.       Our ownership limitation may prevent you from engaging
in certain transfers of our capital stock.       In order to maintain our REIT qualification, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding
capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws to include various kinds of entities) during the last half of any taxable year. In addition, if any shareholder or group of
related or affiliated shareholders of our lessee owns, actually or constructively, 10% or more of our stock, we likely would lose our REIT status. Our articles of incorporation contain the ownership limitation, which prohibits both direct and
indirect ownership of more than 9.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock or 9.9% of any series of our preferred stock by any person, subject to several exceptions. Generally, any shares of our capital stock owned by affiliated owners will
be added together for purposes of the ownership limitation.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   If anyone transfers shares in a way that would violate the ownership limitation or prevent us from
continuing to qualify as a REIT under the federal income tax laws, we will consider the transfer to be null and void from the outset, and the intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares. Those shares instead
will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by our company or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership limitation. Anyone who acquires shares in
violation of the ownership limitation or the other restrictions on transfer in our articles of incorporation bears the risk that he will suffer a financial loss when the shares are redeemed or sold if the market price of our stock falls between the
date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale.       We may not be able to complete development of new hotels on time or within budget.    
  We may develop hotel properties as suitable opportunities arise. New project development is subject to a number of risks that could cause increased
costs or delays in our ability to generate revenue from any development hotel, reducing our cash available for distribution to shareholders. These risks include:       

construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs;         

competition for suitable development sites;         

receipt of zoning, land use, building, construction, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; and         

substantial development costs in connection with projects that are not completed.        We may not be able to complete the development of any projects we begin and, if completed, our development and construction activities may not be completed in a timely manner or within budget.      We may also rehabilitate hotels that we believe are underperforming. These rehabilitation projects will be subject to the same risks as development
projects.       Hotels that we develop have no operating history and may not achieve levels of occupancy that result in levels of operating income that
provide us with an attractive return on our investment.       The new hotels that we may develop have no operating history. These hotels,
both during the start-up period and after they have stabilized, may not achieve anticipated levels of occupancy, average daily room rates, or gross operating margins, and could result in operating losses and reduce the amount of distributions to our
shareholders.       Property ownership through joint ventures and partnerships could limit our control of those investments.       Joint ventures or partnerships involve risks not otherwise present for investments we make on our own. It is possible that our co-venturers or partners
may have different interests or goals than we do at any time and that they may take actions contrary to our requests, policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT. Other risks of joint venture
investment include impasses on decisions, because no single co-venturer or partner has full control over the joint venture or partnership. Joint ventures may include other restrictions on us, including requirements that we provide the joint venture
with the right of first offer or right of first refusal to acquire any new property we consider acquiring directly.         
   15   

Table of Contents  

    Our business could be disrupted if we need to find a new manager upon termination of an existing management agreement.
      If Royal Host Management fails to materially comply with the terms of their management agreement, we have the right to terminate such
management agreement. Upon termination, we would have to find another manager to manage the property. We cannot operate the hotels directly due to federal income tax restrictions. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find another manager or
that, if another manager were found, we would be able to enter into a new management agreement favorable to us. Our franchisors may require us to make substantial capital improvements to the hotels prior to their approval, if required, of a new
manager. There would be disruption during any change of hotel management that could adversely affect our operating results and reduce our distributions to our shareholders.       If we decide to sell hotels, we may not be able to sell those hotels on favorable terms.       We have
sold twenty-two hotels since 2002, ten in 2002, seven in 2003 and five in 2004. We did not sell any hotels in 2005. We may decide to sell additional hotels in the future. We may not be able to sell such hotels on favorable terms, and such hotels may
be sold at a loss. As with acquisitions, we face competition for buyers of our hotel properties. Other sellers of hotels may have the financial resources to dispose of their hotels on unfavorable terms that we would be unable to accept. If we cannot
find buyers for any properties that are designated for sale, we will not be able to implement our divestiture strategy. In the event that we cannot fully execute our divestiture strategy or realize the benefits therefrom, we will not be able to
fully execute our growth strategy.       We depend on key personnel.       We depend on the efforts and expertise of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to drive our day-to-day operations and strategic business direction. The loss of any of their services could have an
adverse effect on our operations. Our ability to replace key individuals may be difficult because of the limited number of individuals with the breadth of skills and experience needed to excel in the hotel industry. There can be no assurance that we
would be able to hire, train, retain or motivate such individuals.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments       None.       
  Item 2. Properties       The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Hotels as of
December 31, 2005:       
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

   Additional property information is found in Item 8 Schedule III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.       
  Item 3. Legal Proceedings       We are not a party to, nor are any of our properties subject to, any material
legal proceedings. We are, from time to time, engaged in routine litigation incidental to the business.       
  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders       None.       
  PART II        
  Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity / Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.       (a)  Market Information       The common stock trades on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol  SPPR.  The closing
sales price for the common stock on March 16, 2006 was $4.91 per share. The table below sets forth the dividends declared per share and high and low sales prices per share reported on the Nasdaq National Market for the periods indicated.
      
    (b)  Holders       As of March 16, 2006, the approximate number of holders of record of the common stock was 160 and the approximate number of beneficial owners was 2,350.      (c)  Dividends       Dividends paid during the year ended
December 31, 2005 ($.24) represented ordinary income ($.24) to shareholders. The 2004 fourth quarter dividend ($.05) was paid in January 2005, and will be reported as a component of 2005 dividend payments for income tax purposes. The 2005
fourth quarter dividend ($.07) was paid in         
   18   

Table of Contents  

   January 2006, and will be reported as a component of 2006 dividend payments for income tax purposes. We will continue to
pay dividends to shareholders as business conditions allow, in accordance with our previously announced policy of distributing approximately 100% of our taxable net income. The actual amount of future dividends will be determined by the board of
directors based on the actual results of operations, economic conditions, capital expenditure requirements and other factors that the board of directors deems relevant.       
  Item 6. Selected Financial Data       Through December 31, 2001, operating revenues and expenses of the
hotels (other than those of the eleven hotels classified for sale from June 1, 2001) were reflected in the financial statements of Humphrey Hospitality Management, Inc. (HHM). Pursuant to the master lease, with an effective date of
January 1, 2002, the hotels previously leased to HHM were then leased to the TRS Lessee which, in turn, entered into the management agreement with HHM. Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements include all of the operating revenues and
expenses of the hotels for 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002.      Effective July 31, 2004, the TRS Lessee terminated its hotel management
agreement with HHM and effective August 1, 2004, TRS Lessee entered into a new hotel management agreement with Royal Host Management.      The following table sets forth our selected financial information. The selected operating data and balance sheet data have been extracted from our consolidated financial statements for each of the periods presented and should be read in
conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Revenues for all periods exclude revenues from hotels sold or classified as held for sale after January 1, 2002, which are classified in discontinued operations in the
statements of operations.     

(3)  
  Represents annual base rent plus aggregate percentage rent pursuant to the percentage leases with Humphrey Hospitality Management, Inc. (HHM), a former management company. On
January 1, 2002, the hotels which had been leased to HHM were leased to TRS Lessee.           
   20   

Table of Contents  

(4)  
  FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure. We consider FFO to be a market accepted measure of an equity REIT s operating performance, which is necessary, along with net earnings
(loss), for an understanding of our operating results. FFO, as defined under the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) standards, consists of net income computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America ( GAAP ), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate assets, plus depreciation and amortization of real estate assets. We believe our method of calculating FFO complies with the NAREIT definition.
FFO does not represent amounts available for management s discretionary use because of needed capital replacement or expansion, debt service obligations, or other commitments and uncertainties. FFO should not be considered as an alternative to
net income (loss) (computed in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of our liquidity, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to pay dividends or make distributions. All REITs do not calculate FFO in
the same manner, therefore, our calculation may not be the same as the calculation of FFO for similar REITs. We use FFO as a performance measure to facilitate a periodic evaluation of our operating results relative to those of our peers, who like
us, are typically members of NAREIT. We consider FFO a useful additional measure of performance for an equity REIT because it facilitates an understanding of the operating performance of its properties without giving effect to real estate
depreciation and amortization, which assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, we believe that FFO provides a meaningful
indication of our performance.        FFO for 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 includes impairment losses on real estate of $0, $0,
$2,069,000, $2,246,000 and $1,192,000, respectively. Prior to the third quarter of 2003, we followed a practice of excluding such losses from FFO. However, we revised this practice based on clarification of the SEC staff s position on the FFO
treatment of impairment losses and guidance from NAREIT issued during the third quarter of 2003.       
     
  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations        Forward-Looking
Statements       Certain information both included and incorporated by reference in this management s discussion and analysis and other
sections of this Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and as such may involve
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that management has made in light of experience in the business in which we operate, as well as management s perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected
future developments and other factors believed to be appropriate under the circumstances. These statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) and assumptions.
Management believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions.      Forward-looking statements, which are based
on certain assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies and expectations are generally identifiable by use of the words  may,   will,   should,   expect,   anticipate,   estimate, 
 believe,   intend  or  project  or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or         
   21   

Table of Contents  

   comparable terminology. Factors which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future prospects
include, but are not limited to, changes in: economic conditions generally and the real estate market specifically, legislative/regulatory changes (including changes to laws governing the taxation of real estate investment trusts), availability of
capital, risks associated with debt financing, interest rates, competition, supply and demand for hotel rooms in our current and proposed market areas, policies and guidelines applicable to real estate investment trusts and other risks and
uncertainties described herein, and in our filings with the SEC from time to time. These risks and uncertainties should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference herein. We caution readers not
to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this report which speak only as of the date of this report.       Overview
        We are a self-administered real estate investment trust, and through our subsidiaries, we own 76 limited service hotels in 17
states. Our hotels operate under several national franchise brands.         Our significant events for 2005 include:       

our name change from Humphrey Hospitality Trust, Inc. to Supertel Hospitality, Inc.; and trading symbol change of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market from
 HUMP  to  SPPR          

the acquisition of seven hotels;         

Through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Supertel Hospitality REIT Trust and E P REIT Trust, we own a controlling
interest in Supertel Limited Partnership and E P Financing Limited Partnership. As of December 31, 2005, we owned an approximately 96% general partnership interest in Supertel Limited Partnership and a 100% interest in E P Financing
Limited Partnership. Supertel Limited Partnership owns a 100% interest in Solomons GP, LLC which owns a 99% general partnership interest in Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership. We own the remaining 1% limited partnership interest in Solomons
Beacon Inn Limited Partnership. Supertel Limited Partnership also owns a 100% interest in SPPR-South Bend, LLC and 99% interest in SPPR-Hotels, LLC. The remaining 1% interest in SPPR   Hotels, LLC is owned by SPPR Holdings, Inc, our
wholly-owned subsidiary.      The discussion that follows is based primarily on our consolidated financial statements as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and should be read along with the consolidated financial statements and related notes.       RevPAR, ADR and Occupancy       The following table presents our revenue per available room
( RevPAR ), average daily rate ( ADR ) and occupancy, by state, for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The comparisons from continuing operations include 76, 69 and 69 hotels for the respective years.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

Our RevPAR, ADR and Occupancy, by franchise affiliation, from continuing operations, for 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively, were as follows:       

23   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations        Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2005 to the year ended December 31, 2004       Operating
results are summarized as follows for the years ended December 31 (table in thousands):       
     Revenues and Operating Expenses       Revenues increased, from continuing operations, by approximately $2.9 million during 2005, of which $1.6 million was due to acquisition of hotel
properties during 2005. The increase in revenue was also due, in part, to an increase in average daily rate (ADR) of $1.41 or 2.7% and a 0.3% increase in occupancy, which resulted in a $1.04 or 3.2% increase of revenue per available room (RevPAR)
for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ago period.      Hotel and property operations expenses, from continuing
operations increased by approximately $1.1 million during 2005, due to acquisition of hotel properties during 2005 with operations expense of $1.2 million.       Interest Expense and Depreciation Expense       Interest expense, from continuing operations increased by approximately $400,000,
due partially to acquisitions and rising rates. Depreciation expense increased $445,000, primarily due to acquisitions and asset additions outpacing the amount of assets exceeding their useful life. General and administrative cost increased by
approximately $392,000, due primarily to increases in payroll/taxes/benefits and consulting fees during 2005.       Termination and Relocation Costs
      There were no Termination and Relocation Costs during 2005. The 2004 cost of $1.2 million was a result of termination fees directly
related to TRS Lessee terminating its hotel management agreement with Humphrey Hospitality Management (HHM) for $500,000 and agreeing to reimburse HHM for certain employment-related severance costs of approximately $189,000. Additional one-time
expenses associated with the termination of the hotel management agreement and a related decision to relocate the corporate offices from Columbia, MD to Norfolk, NE approximated $379,000, which is primarily represented by executive separation
agreements, legal and consulting services. In addition, capitalized expenditures for replacement software and computer equipment totaled to approximately $225,000.       Income Tax       The Income tax expense (benefit) is related to the taxable earnings (loss) from the Company s taxable
subsidiary, the TRS Lessee. Management believes the Federal income tax rate for the TRS Lessee will be approximately 40%. The tax benefit is a result of TRS Lessee s losses for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The income tax
expense (benefit) will vary based on the taxable earnings of the TRS Lessee, a C corporation. The income tax benefit decreased by approximately $211,000 during 2005 compared to the year ago period, due to a reduced loss by the TRS Lessee in 2005
compared to the year ago period.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

    Dispositions       In 2005 no hotel sales were realized. In 2004, we recognized net gains on the disposition of assets of approximately $733,000, due primarily to net gains on the sale of five hotels ($745,000, net of built-in gain taxes of $286,000). No
impairment charges were recorded for 2005 and 2004.       Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2004 to the year ended December 31, 2003
      Operating results are summarized as follows for the years ended December 31 (table in thousands):       
     Revenues and Operating Expenses       Revenues declined by approximately $3.5 million during 2004, due primarily to the sale of 12 hotel properties during 2004 and 2003 ($3.8 million), five of
which were sold in 2004, offset by a slight increase in comparable RevPAR ($.20 or $343,000).      Hotel and property operations expenses
declined by approximately $3.6 million during 2004, due primarily to the sale of 12 hotel properties during 2004 and 2003 ($3.2 million) and lower costs of ancillary services ($67,000), lower labor cost ($94,000), lower fixed cost ($387,000) and
increased benefit cost $296,000.       Interest Expense and Depreciation Expense       Interest expense declined by approximately $1.2 million during 2004, due primarily to the early extinguishment of long-term debt using the proceeds from
the sale of 12 hotel properties since January 1, 2003. Depreciation expense has also declined ($403,000), primarily as a result of the sale of certain of our hotel properties. General and administrative costs increased by approximately $82,000
(payroll/taxes/benefits increased $79,000) during 2004.       Termination and Relocation Costs       Termination and Relocation Costs reflect termination fees directly related to TRS Lessee terminating its hotel management agreement with HHM ($500,000)
and agreeing to reimburse HHM for certain employment-related severance costs of approximately $189,000. Additional one-time expenses associated with the termination of the hotel         
   25   

Table of Contents  

   management agreement and a related decision to relocate the corporate offices from Columbia, MD to Norfolk, NE
approximated $379,000, which is primarily represented by executive separation agreements, legal and consulting services. In addition, capitalized expenditures for replacement software and computer equipment totaled to approximately $225,000.
      Income Tax       The Income tax expense
(benefit) is related to the taxable earnings (loss) from the Company s taxable subsidiary, the TRS Lessee. Management believes the Federal income tax rate for the TRS Lessee will be approximately 40%. The tax benefit is a result of TRS
Lessee s losses for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. The income tax expense (benefit) will vary based on the taxable earnings of the TRS Lessee, a C corporation. The income tax benefit increased by approximately $155,000 during
2004 compared to the year ago period, due to an increased loss by the TRS Lessee in 2004 compared to the year ago period.       Dispositions    
  In 2004, we recognized net gains on the disposition of assets of approximately $733,000, due primarily to net gains on the sale of five hotels
($745,000, net of built-in gain taxes of $286,000). In 2003, we recognized net gains on the disposition of assets of approximately $418,000, due primarily to net gains on the sale of seven hotels ($961,000, net of built-in gain taxes of $178,000 and
a provision for built-in gain taxes which was reduced ($300,000) based on a change in the allocation of hotel sales proceeds from us to the TRS Lessee.       Impairment Charges       In 2004, no impairment charges were recorded. In 2003, we recorded impairment charges on three hotels
($1,152,000) and two additional hotels which did not meet our criteria for classification as held for sale at December 31, 2003 ($917,000), which were later sold during 2004.       Liquidity and Capital Resources       Our income and ability to meet our debt service obligations, and
make distributions to our shareholders, depends upon the operations of the hotels being conducted in a manner that maintains or increases revenue, or reduces expenses, to generate sufficient hotel operating income for TRS Lessee to pay the
hotels  operating expenses, including management fees and rents to us. We depend on rent payments from TRS Lessee to pay our operating expenses and debt service and to make distributions to shareholders.      We expect to meet our short-term liquidity requirements generally through borrowings on our revolving credit facility with Great Western Bank and net
cash provided by operations. We believe that our available borrowing capacity and net cash provided by operations will be adequate to fund both operating requirements and the payment of dividends in accordance with REIT requirements.      We expect to meet our long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled debt maturities, through long-term secured and unsecured borrowings and the issuance of
additional securities.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

    Financing       At December 31, 2005, we had long-term debt of $92.0 million consisting of notes and mortgages payable, with a weighted average term to maturity of
6.5 years and a weighted average interest rate of 7.22%. Aggregate annual principal payments for the next five years and thereafter are as follows (in thousands):       
    We have or currently intend to finance or refinance the debt payments coming due in 2006 in the
amount of $2.8 million. The remainder of the maturities in 2006, approximately $2.6 million, consist of principal amortization on other mortgage loans which we expect to fund through cash flow from operations.      We file quarterly loan compliance certificates with certain of our lenders. As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all loan covenants.
     As of September 30, 2004 we requested and received a loan-to-value and a debt service ratio waiver with respect to a term loan with
First National Bank of Omaha N.A. Ten of our hotels secure the $12 million term loan. We had a loan to value ratio of 63% and a debt service ratio of 1.46:1 as compared to the covenant requirements of the term loan of 60% and 1.5:1. The bank has
agreed that through and including June 30, 2006, the loan-to-value ratio will be determined using a capitalization rate of 11% for valuing the hotels (versus an original rate of 12%) and the debt service coverage ratio will be 1.35:1. As of
December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with the covenants under this term loan, as so modified.      If we fail to pay our indebtedness
when due, or fail to comply with covenants, we could incur higher interest rates during the period of such loan defaults, and could ultimately lose the hotels through lender foreclosure.       Acquisition of Hotels       The Company acquired the 90-room Sleep Inn and Suites hotel located in Omaha, Nebraska in September 2005. The purchase price of $3.6 million was paid by approximately $800,000 with an assumed mortgage note payable and 633,047 of common
operating units of Supertel Limited Partnership (a limited partnership 96% owned by the Company), of which 266,131 common operating units were immediately redeemed for $1.2 million in cash.      On November 7, 2005, SPPR-Hotels, LLC, a single-purpose bankruptcy remote entity 99% owned by Supertel Limited Partnership and 1% owned by SPPR
Holdings, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired five hotels (four located in Indiana and one in North Carolina) in the amount of approximately $20.2 million, which was funded by approximately $5.4 million of borrowings from
Supertel Hospitality s existing credit facilities with Great Western Bank and a $14.8 million loan from Citigroup Global Markets Realty Corp.      On November 30, 2005, SPPR-South Bend, LLC, a single-purpose bankruptcy remote entity 100% owned by Supertel Limited Partnership, acquired one hotel located in Indiana, in the amount of $12,080,000. The acquisition was funded thru the
assumption of an approximate $6.1 million promissory note payable to GE Capital Franchise Finance Corporation, a $3.0 million promissory note payable to Independent Property Operators of America, LLC and approximately $3.0 million of borrowings from
Supertel Hospitality s existing credit facilities with Great Western Bank.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

    Disposition of Hotels       During 2005 we did not sell any hotels. As of December 31, 2005, none of our hotels were classified as held for sale.       Redemption of Preferred Operating Partnership Units       We own, through our subsidiary, Supertel Hospitality REIT Trust, an approximate 96% general partnership interest in Supertel Limited Partnership, through which we own 20 of our hotels. We are the sole general partner
of the limited partnership, and the remaining approximate 4% is held by limited partners who hold, as of December 31, 2005, 372,195 common operating partnership units and 195,610 preferred operating partnership units. Each limited partner of
Supertel Limited Partnership may, subject to certain limitations, require that Supertel Limited Partnership redeem all or a portion of his or her common or preferred units, at any time after a specified period following the date he or she acquired
the units, by delivering a redemption notice to Supertel Limited Partnership. When a limited partner tenders his or her common units to the partnership for redemption, we can, in our sole discretion, choose to purchase the units for either
(1) a number of our shares of common stock equal to the number of units redeemed (subject to certain adjustments) or (2) cash in an amount equal to the market value of the number of our shares of common stock the limited partner would have
received if we chose to purchase the units for common stock. We anticipate that we generally will elect to purchase the common units for common stock. The preferred units are convertible by the holders into common units on a one-for-one basis or may
be redeemed for cash at $10 per unit until October 2009. The preferred units receive a preferred dividend distribution of $1.10 per preferred unit annually, payable on a monthly basis and do not participate in the allocations of profits and losses
of Supertel Limited Partnership.       Capital Commitments       Below is a summary of certain obligations that will require capital:       
    We have various standing or renewable contracts with vendors. These contracts are all cancelable
with immaterial or no cancellation penalties. Contract terms are generally one year or less.       Other       To maintain our REIT tax status, we generally must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income annually. In addition, we are subject to a 4%
non-deductible excise tax if the actual amount distributed to shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the federal income tax laws. We have a general dividend policy of paying out approximately 100% of annual
REIT taxable income. The actual amount of any future dividends will be determined by the board of directors based on our actual results of operations, economic conditions, capital expenditure requirements and other factors that the board of
directors deems relevant.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

    Off Balance Sheet Financing Transactions       We have not entered into any off balance sheet financing transactions.       Critical Accounting Policies       Critical accounting policies are those that are both important to the
presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require management s most difficult, complex or subjective judgments. We have identified the following principal accounting policy that has a material effect on our
consolidated financial statements:       Impairment of assets       If events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a hotel property to be held and used may be impaired, a recoverability analysis is performed based on estimated undiscounted cash flows to be
generated from the property in the future. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the property is written down to estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recognized. If a decision is made
to sell a hotel property, we evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of the asset. If the evaluation indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from estimated net sales proceeds, the property is written down to estimated fair
value less costs to sell and an impairment loss is recognized. Estimates of cash flows and fair values of the properties are based on current market conditions and consider matters such as revenues and occupancies for the properties, recent sales
data for comparable properties and, where applicable, contracts or the results of negotiations with purchasers or prospective purchasers. The estimates are subject to revision as market conditions and management s assessment of them change. If
we misjudge or estimate incorrectly, we may record an impairment charge that is inappropriate or fail to record a charge when we should have done so, and the amount of these charges may be inaccurate.       
  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk        Market Risk Information       The market risk associated with financial instruments and derivative financial or commodity instruments is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market
prices or rates. Our market risk arises primarily from interest rate risk relating to variable rate borrowings. Our interest rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. In order to
achieve this objective, we rely primarily on long-term, fixed rate non-recourse loans from institutional lenders to finance our hotels. We are not currently using derivative financial or commodity instruments to manage interest rate risk.
     Management monitors our interest rate risk closely. The table below presents the annual maturities, weighted average interest rates on
outstanding debt at the end of each year and fair values required to evaluate the expected cash flows under debt and related agreements, and our sensitivity to interest rate changes at December 31, 2005. Information relating to debt maturities
is based on expected maturity dates and is summarized as follows (in thousands):       
       
   29   

Table of Contents  

   As the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of December 31, 2005, it does not
consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. As a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations would depend on the exposures that arise after December 31, 2005.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data        
  SUPERTEL HOSPITALITY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES        INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
       
    Supplementary information required by this Item is presented in Item 6.
        
   31   

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors and
Shareholders      Supertel Hospitality, Inc.:      We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders 
equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule III . These consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide
a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule III, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.       
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET        (In thousands, except per share data)        
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS        (In thousands, except per share data)        
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY
       (In thousands, except per share data)        
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        (In thousands)        
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        Description of Business       Supertel Hospitality, Inc. (SHI) was incorporated on August 23, 1994. SHI is a self-administered real estate investment trust (REIT) for Federal income tax purposes.      SHI, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Supertel Hospitality REIT Trust and E P REIT Trust (collectively, the  Company ) owns a
controlling interest in Supertel Limited Partnership ( SLP ) and E P Financing Limited Partnership ( E P LP ). All of the Company s interests in 70 properties with the exception of furniture, fixtures and equipment
held by TRS Leasing, Inc. are held directly or indirectly by E P LP, SLP or Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership (SBILP) (collectively, the  Partnerships ). The Company s interest in six properties are held directly by either
SPPR-Hotels, LLC (SHLLC) or SPPR-South Bend, LLC (SSBLLC). SHI is the sole general partner in SLP and at December 31, 2005, owned approximately 96% of the Units in SLP. SLP is the general partner in SBILP. At December 31, 2005, SLP and SHI
owned 99% and 1% interests in SBILP, respectively, and SHI owned 100% of Supertel Hospitality Management, Inc and SPPR Holdings, Inc. (SPPRHI), SLP and SPPRHI owned 99% and 1% of SHLLC, respectively, and SLP owned 100% of SSBLLC.      As of December 31, 2005, the Company, through the Partnerships, owned 76 limited service hotels (the  hotels ) and one office building.
The hotels are leased to the Company s wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiary, TRS Leasing, Inc, and its wholly owned subsidiaries TRS Subsidiary, LLC and SPPR TRS Subsidiary, LLC (collectively  TRS Lessee ), and were managed by
Humphrey Hospitality Management, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary, Supertel Hospitality Management, Inc. ( SHMI ) (collectively  HHM ), through July 31, 2004 at which time the contract with HHM was terminated. Effective
August 1, 2004, the TRS Lessee entered into a new hotel management agreement with Royal Host Management, Inc., (RHM). RHM is a subsidiary of Royal Host, Inc. a Canada based publicly owned Real Estate Investment Trust which is an owner,
franchisor and manager of limited and focused service hotel properties in the United States and Canada. The agreement with RHM provides for a base management fee representing 4.75% and 4.00% of hotel revenue, on 70 and 6 hotels, respectively.
     For the year ended 2003 and through July 31, 2004, James I. Humphrey, Jr., the sole shareholder of HHM, was a director of the
Company. Paul Schulte, the Company s Chairman of the Board, served as President of SHMI for an annual compensation package of one dollar ($1.00) through the year ended December 31, 2003 and for the period ended July 31, 2004. No other
member of the Company s board had a financial interest in HHM.      Effective August 2004, SHMI was acquired by SHI.       Principles of Consolidation       The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, the Partnerships and the TRS Lessee. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)        Basis of Presentation       The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and
revenues and expenses recognized during the reporting period. The significant estimates pertain to impairment analysis and allocation of purchase price (SFAS No. 141). Actual results could differ from those estimates.       Capitalization Policy       Acquisition, development and construction costs of properties in development are capitalized including, where applicable, direct and indirect costs, including real estate taxes and interest costs. Development and construction costs and
costs of significant improvements, replacements, renovations to furniture and equipment expenditures for hotel properties are capitalized while costs of maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred.       Deferred Financing Cost       Direct costs incurred in financing transactions are capitalized as deferred costs and amortized to interest cost over the term of the related loan using the effective interest method.       Investment in Hotel Properties       Hotel properties to be held and used in operations are recorded at cost and reduced for impairment losses where appropriate. Hotel properties held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying value (i.e., cost
less accumulated depreciation and any impairment loss recognized, where applicable) or estimated fair value less costs to sell. The net carrying values of hotel properties are classified as held for sale when senior management authorizes their
disposition, the Company begins marketing the properties for sale and various other criteria for a plan of sale are met. Depreciation of these properties is discontinued at that time, but operating revenues, other operating expenses and interest
continue to be recognized until the date of sale. Revenues and expenses of properties that are classified as held for sale or sold are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented in the statements of operations if the properties
will be or have been sold on terms where the Company has limited or no continuing involvement with them after the sale. If active marketing ceases or the properties no longer meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale, the properties are
reclassified as operating and measured at the lower of their (a) carrying amount before the properties were classified as held for sale, adjusted for any depreciation expense that would have been recognized had the properties been continuously
classified as operating or (b) their fair value at the date of the subsequent decision not to sell.      If events or circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of a hotel property to be held and used may be impaired, a recoverability analysis is performed based on estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be generated from the property. If the analysis indicates that the
carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the property is written down to estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recognized.      Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from 20 to 40 years for buildings and 5 to 12 years for furniture, fixtures and equipment.   
     
   38   

Table of Contents  

Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED
       December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (continued)       Gains from sales of hotel properties are recognized using the full accrual method provided that various criteria
relating to the terms of the transactions and any subsequent involvement by the Company with the properties sold are met. Gains relating to the transactions that do not meet the established criteria are deferred and recognized when the criteria are
met or using the installment or cost recovery methods, as appropriate in the circumstances.       Cash and Cash Equivalents
      Cash and cash equivalents include cash and various highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less when
acquired, and are carried at cost which approximates fair value.       Revenue Recognition       Revenues from the operations of the hotel properties are recognized when earned.       Income Taxes       The
Company qualifies and intends to continue to qualify as a REIT under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended. In general, under such Code provisions, a trust which has made the required election and, in the taxable year, meets
certain requirements and distributes to its shareholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income will not be subject to Federal income tax to the extent of the income which it distributes. Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of
dividends to shareholders, differ from net income reported for financial reporting purposes due primarily to differences in depreciation of hotel properties for Federal tax purposes. Except with respect to the TRS Lessee, the Company does not
believe that it will be liable for significant Federal or state income taxes in future years.      Deferred income taxes relate primarily to
the TRS Lessee and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred income taxes are recognized for temporary differences between the financial reporting bases of assets and liabilities of the TRS Lessee and their
respective tax bases and for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards based on enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when such amounts are realized or settled. However, deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is more
likely than not that they will be realized based on consideration of available evidence, including tax planning strategies and other factors.      Under the REIT Modernization Act ( RMA ), which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is permitted to lease its hotels to one or more wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries ( TRS ) and may continue to
qualify as a REIT provided that the TRS enters into management agreements with an  eligible independent contractor  that will manage the hotels leased by the TRS. The Company formed the TRS Lessee and, effective January 1, 2002, the
TRS Lessee leased all of the hotel properties. The TRS Lessee is subject to taxation as a C-Corporation. The TRS Lessee has incurred operating losses for financial reporting and Federal income tax purposes for 2005, 2004 and 2003.      In October 1999, the Company and the old Supertel Hospitality, Inc., merged and the Company was the surviving entity. In 2005, the Company changed its
name to Supertel Hospitality, Inc. In connection with its election to be taxed as a REIT, the Company has elected to be subject to the  built-in gain  rules. Under these rules,         
   39   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)       taxes may be payable at the time
and to the extent that the net unrealized gains on assets acquired in a 1999 merger with the old Supertel are recognized in taxable dispositions of such assets in the subsequent ten-year period. This ten-year period expires October 2009. The Company
had no built-in gains taxes in 2005. The Company recognized built-in gains taxes of $286 due to dispositions of properties in 2004 and $178 in 2003.       Financial Instruments       Fair values of financial instruments approximate their carrying values in the
financial statements, except for long-term debt for which fair value information is presented in Note 5.       Earnings Per
Share       Basic earnings per share ( EPS ) is computed by dividing earnings available to common shareholders by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is computed after adjusting the numerator and denominator of the basic EPS computation for the effects of any dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period, if any. The
weighted average number of shares used in the basic EPS computation for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were 12,062,000, 12,054,000 and 12,045,000 respectively.      At December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 there were approximately 372,000, 10,000 and 20,000, respectively of SLP common operating units outstanding. These units have been excluded from the diluted earnings per share
calculation as there would be no effect on the amounts allocated to the common unit holders (whose units are convertible on a one-to-one basis to common shares) since their share of income would be added back to income. In addition, the 195,610
shares of SLP preferred operating units are antidilutive.      At December 31, 2005, there were 1,521,258 shares of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock and 126,311 preferred stock warrants issued to Anderson   Strudwick. The effect of dilutive Series A convertible preferred stock and preferred stock warrants for the two days ending December 31, 2005 was the equivalent of
approximately 15,979 shares of common stock outstanding. Because the preferred stock calculation was anti-dilutive and the exercise price of the warrants exceeded the market price of the common stock and convertible preferred stock, these
incremental shares were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share. See additional information regarding preferred stock and warrants in Note 8.       Minority Interest       Minority interest in the operating partnership represents the limited partners  proportionate share of the equity in the operating partnership. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, 4,434, 10,479 and 731,234 units of limited
partnership interest were redeemed by unit holders. At December 31, 2005, the aggregate partnership interest held by the limited partners in the operating partnership was approximately 4.00%. Income is allocated to minority interest based on
the weighted average percentage ownership throughout the year. The limited partner s common operating units were increased by 366,916 in the 2005. See additional information regarding operating partnership units in Note 8.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)        Concentration of Credit Risk       The Company maintained a major portion of its deposits with Great Western Bank, a Nebraska
Corporation at December 31, 2005 and US Bank National Association ( US Bank ) at December 31, 2004. The balance on deposit at Great Western Bank and US Bank exceeded the federal deposit insurance limit; however, management
believes that no significant credit risk exists with respect to the uninsured portion of this cash balance. A change of the primary depository for the Company was made in January 2005 from US Bank to Great Western Bank.       Note 2. Acquisitions       On November 7, 2005 the
Company acquired five hotels from the Independent Property Operators of America, LLC (IPOA). Four of the hotels are located in Indiana and one in North Carolina. On November 30, 2005 the Company acquired a sixth hotel from IPOA located in
Indiana. The aggregate purchase price of the six hotels was approximately $32.1 million, of which $6.1 million was assumed debt and $26 million was paid in cash.      All of the hotels acquired in 2005 were considered to be compatible with the Company s overall hotel business strategy.      The results of the acquired properties  operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements since their dates of acquisition.      The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of the assets acquired as well as the liabilities assumed for the IPOA properties as of the date
of the acquisition.       
    The investment in properties represents the estimated fair value of the hotel properties based on
the purchase price. The long-term debt reflects $6,123 of assumed mortgage note payable at 7.41% per annum.      In addition to the IPOA
acquisition, on September 1, 2005 the Company acquired a Sleep-Inn hotel in Omaha, Nebraska for $3.6 million through the assumption of $807 of debt and the issuance of 633,047 common operating units in Supertel Limited Partnership valued at $2,793.
As the common operating units are convertible to the Company s common shares on a one for one basis, their value was based on a five business day average ending August 31, 2005 of the Company s closing common share price which amounted to
$4.412 per share. Immediately following the issuance of the 633,047 common operating units, holders of 266,131 units submitted the units for $1,174 in cash which resulted in 366,916 of the common operating units remaining after this transaction.
        
   41   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)       The following unaudited pro forma financial statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 give effect to
the above transactions as if they had occurred at the beginning of their respective periods.      The unaudited pro forma financial data do not
purport to represent what the Company s results of operations would actually have been if the transactions had in fact occurred on the dates discussed above. They also do not project or forecast the Company s results of operations for any
future date or period.         
   42   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        
       
   43   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)       The pro forma statement of operations reflects the acquisition of seven hotels. The information presented represents the activity for these acquired
properties from and including January 1, for the years presented to, but not including, the date of our acquisition. The pro forma statement reflects the following adjustments:       

Hotel operating expenses reflect the cost reductions resulting from reduced management fees, insurance expense and the elimination of an excess administrative position, offset by an
increase in franchise fees.         

Depreciation expense is adjusted for acquired depreciable basis.         

Interest expense includes the additional interest and amortization of deferred financing costs related to the additional debt entered into and assumed on acquisition.
        Note 3. Investments in Hotel Properties       Investments in hotel properties consisted of the following at December 31:       
     Note 4. Net Gains (Losses) on Sales of Properties, Impairment Losses and Discontinued Operations
      In accordance with SFAS 144, gains, losses and impairment losses on hotel properties sold or classified as held for sale on or after
January 1, 2002 are presented in discontinued operations. Gains (losses) on sales of hotel properties and impairment losses on hotel properties are summarized as follows:         
   44   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        
    In 2005, the Company did not sell any hotels. In 2004, the Company recognized net gains on the
disposition of assets of approximately $733, due primarily to net gains on the sale of five hotels ($745, net of built-in gain taxes of $286). In 2003, the Company recognized net gains on the disposition of assets of approximately $418, due
primarily to net gains on the sale of seven of the hotels classified for sale ($961, net of built-in gain taxes of $178,) and a provision for built-in gain taxes which was reduced by $300 based on a tax planning strategy implemented in 2003 that
resulted in a change in the allocation of hotel sales proceeds between the Company to the TRS Lessee.      In 2005 and 2004, no impairment
charges were recorded. In 2003, the Company recorded impairment charges on three of the hotels classified for sale for $1,152 and two additional hotels which did not meet the Company s criteria for classification as held for sale at
December 31, 2003 for $917, which were later sold during 2004.      The operating results of hotel properties included in discontinued operations are
summarized as follows:       
       
   45   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        Note 5. Long-Term Debt       Long-term debt consisted of the following notes and
mortgages payable at December 31:       

2005   
      
   2004    
 
  Mortgage loan payable to Regions Bank, N.A., evidenced by a promissory note dated August 5, 1998, in the amount of $3 million. The note bears interest during a five-year period beginning
August 2003 at 4.875% per annum and thereafter during the remaining term at a rate equal to 250 basis points over the index rate as defined in the promissory note. The interest rate will be adjusted every fifth anniversary. Monthly principal
and interest payments are payable through maturity on August 5, 2018, at which point the remaining principal and accrued interest are due.  
      
  $  
  2,334  
      
  $  
  2,465   

Mortgage loan payable to Susquehanna Bank, evidenced by a promissory note dated February 8, 1999, in the amount of approximately $5 million. The note bears interest at 7.75% per annum.
Monthly principal and interest payments are payable through maturity on February 8, 2009, at which point the remaining principal and accrued interest are due.  
      
  $  
  4,506  
      
  $  
  4,607   

Mortgage loan payable to Greenwich Capital Financial Products, Inc. ( Greenwich ), evidenced by a promissory note dated November 26, 2002, in the amount of $40 million. The note
bears interest at 7.50% per annum. Monthly principal and interest payments are payable through maturity on December 1, 2012, at which point the remaining principal and accrued interest are due.  
      
  $  
  37,238  
      
  $  
  38,232   

Mortgage loan payable to First National Bank of Omaha evidenced by a promissory note in the amount of $15 million dated October 20, 1999. The note bears interest at 8.4% per annum.
Monthly principal and interest payments are payable through maturity on November 1, 2009, at which point the remaining principal and accrued interest are due.  
      
  $  
  11,283  
      
  $  
  11,859   

Term loan credit facility from U.S. Bank National Association ( U.S. Bank ) evidenced by a promissory note in the amount of $13 million dated October 20, 1999. The note bore
interest at 8.31% per annum for the first three years and at LIBOR plus 2.25% in the fourth and fifth years, determined by U.S. Bank at the beginning of each respective year. The interest rate at December 31, 2004 was 4.67%. Monthly
principal and interest payments were payable through maturity on January 15, 2005, at which point the remaining principal and accrued interest were due. This loan was repaid on January 13, 2005 with the proceeds from a revolving credit
facility obtained from Great Western Bank.  

$  
  6,225   
       
   46   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        

Revolving credit facility from U.S. Bank evidenced by a promissory note dated October 20, 1999 for up to $10 million bearing interest at the U.S. Bank National Association Prime Rate
(5.00%) at December 31, 2004, payable monthly with the outstanding principal and accrued interest payable in full on December 31, 2005. This note was repaid on January 13, 2005 with the proceeds from a revolving credit facility
obtained from Great Western Bank.  

$  
  4,520   

Mortgage loans payable to First Citizens National Bank evidenced by promissory notes totaling approximately $1 million. The loan obligations were assumed on October 19, 2000 in conjunction
with the acquisition of hotel assets. The sole remaining note bears interest at 6.92% per annum. Principal and interest payments are due in monthly installments, with the note maturing on July 20, 2012.  
      
  $  
  457  
      
  $  
  493   

Mortgage loan payable to Security State Bank evidenced by a promissory note in the amount of approximately $0.2 million. The loan obligation was assumed on October 20, 2000 in conjunction
with the acquisition of hotel assets. The note bears interest at 8.5% per annum. Principal and interest payments were due in monthly installments with the outstanding principal and interest payable in full on November 1, 2005. Effective
October 31, 2005 an extension agreement was signed to extend the remaining balance to January 1, 2006. This note was paid in full December 30, 2005 with funds from our revolving credit facility from Great Western Bank.  

$  
  153   

Mortgage loans payable to Small Business Administration evidenced by promissory notes in the aggregate amounts of approximately $0.9 million. The loan obligations were assumed on
October 23, 2000, October 19, 2000 and October 20, 2000, respectively, in conjunction with the acquisition of hotel assets. The notes bear interest at 8.12%, 8.95%, and 6.71% per annum, respectively. Principal and interest
payments are due in monthly installments to January 1, 2017, December 11, 2011 and May 1, 2013, respectively. Two notes were paid off with the remaining maturity of May 1, 2013.  
      
  $  
  169  
      
  $  
  185   

Loan payable to Village Bank formerly known as Southern Community Bank   Trust evidenced by a promissory note in the amount of $2.7 million dated November 1, 2004. A letter of
credit dated November 1, 2004 in the amount of $0.2 million with Great Western Bank is funished as additional collateral. The note bears interest at an initial interest rate of 6.50%, which will remain in effect for the first 36 months, then
adjusted to the three year Treasury Rate plus 3.75% every 36 months over the remaining life of the loan. The loan will have a floor of 6.50% and a ceiling of 11.00%. Principal and interest payments are due in monthly installments to November 1,
2024.  
      
  $  
  2,611  
      
  $  
  2,679   
       
   47   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        
    The long-term debt is secured by 75, 69 and 69 of the Company s hotel properties, for the
years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In addition, the Company s chairman and another director guaranteed, jointly and severally with the Company, the payment of interest and principal on $5 million of certain of the Company s
outstanding long-term debt with US Bank. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had indemnified these individuals should the respective lenders call on these guarantees. Effective January 13, 2005 in conjunction with the repayment in full of
the US Bank debt, the personal guarantees were terminated. The Company s debt agreements contain requirements as to the maintenance of minimum levels of debt service coverage and loan-to-value ratios and net worth, and place certain
restrictions on distributions.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)       The Company files quarterly loan compliance certificates with certain of its lenders. The Company requested and received under its term loan and
revolving credit facility with US Bank, a waiver, which was effective from December 31, 2002 until the Company terminated the facility in January 2005, which permitted it to maintain a higher income to debt ratio than permitted under the loan
covenants.      As of September 30, 2004 the Company requested and received a loan to value and a debt service ratio waiver with respect
to a term loan with First National Bank of Omaha N.A. Ten of its hotels secure the $12 million term loan. The Company had a loan to value ratio of 63% and a debt service ratio of 1.46:1 as compared to the covenant requirements of the term loan of
60% and 1.5:1. The bank has agreed that through and including June 30, 2006, the loan to value ratio will be determined using a capitalization rate of 11% for valuing the hotels (versus an original rate of 12%) and the debt service coverage
ratio will be 1.35:1.      Aggregate annual principal payments and payments to bond sinking funds for the next five years and thereafter are as
follows:       
    On January 13, 2005, the Company completed a $22,000 revolving credit facility with Great
Western Bank. The borrowings from the new credit facility were used to pay the maturing US Bank term note and the US Bank revolving credit facility with balances of $6,225 and $4,520 respectively, as of December 31, 2004. The remainder of the
maturities in 2005 consisted of principal amortization on other mortgage loans.      At December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 , the estimated
fair values of long-term debt were approximately $95,800, 76,500 and $77,600, respectively. The fair values were estimated by discounting future cash payments to be made at rates that approximate rates currently offered for loans with similar
maturities.      Interest expense on debt that is to be assumed by the buyer and interest expense on debt that is required to be repaid as a
result of a disposal transaction is allocated to discontinued operations.         
   49   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        Note 6. Income Taxes       The RMA was included in the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999, which was enacted
into law on December 17, 1999. The RMA includes numerous amendments to the provisions governing the qualification and taxation of REITs, and these amendments were effective January 1, 2001. One of the principal provisions included in the
Act provides for the creation of TRS. TRS are corporations that are permitted to engage in nonqualifying REIT activities. A REIT is permitted to own up to 100% of the voting stock in a TRS. Previously, a REIT could not own more than 10% of the
voting stock of a corporation conducting nonqualifying activities. Relying on this legislation, in November 2001, the Company formed the TRS Lessee.      As a REIT, the Company generally will not be subject to corporate level Federal income tax on taxable income it distributes currently to stockholders. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it
will be subject to Federal income taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT,
it may be subject to certain state and local taxes on its income and property and to Federal income and excise taxes on its undistributed taxable income. In addition, taxable income of a TRS is subject to Federal, state and local income taxes.
     In connection with the Company s election to be taxed as a REIT, it has also elected to be subject to the  built-in gain 
rules on the assets formerly held by the old Supertel. Under these rules, taxes will be payable at the time and to the extent that the net unrealized gains on assets at the date of conversion to REIT status are recognized in taxable dispositions of
such assets in the ten-year period following conversion.      At December 31, 2005, the income tax bases of the Company s assets and
liabilities excluding those of TRS were approximately $120,254 and $79,273, respectively; December 31, 2004 were approximately $83,014 and $62,791, respectively.      The TRS net operating loss carryforward from December 31, 2005 as determined for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $867. The availability of such loss carryforward will begin to expire in 2023.
        
   50   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)       Income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 consists of the following:       
    The actual income tax expense of the TRS for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
differs from the  expected  income tax expense (computed by applying the appropriate U.S. Federal income tax rate of 34% to earnings before income taxes) as a result of the following:       
       
   51   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)       The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liability at
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 follows:       
    In assessing the reliability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that
some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible.
Management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Based upon the level of historical taxable income and projections of future taxable
income over the periods in which the deferred tax assets are deductible, management believes it is more likely than not the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible differences. There is no valuation allowance at December 31, 2005,
2004 or 2003.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        Note 7. Commitments and Contingencies and Other Related Party Transactions       Effective July 31,
2004, the TRS Lessee terminated its hotel management agreement with HHM, paying HHM a $500 early termination fee in addition to agreeing to reimburse HHM for certain employment-related severance costs of approximately $189.      At December 31, 2003 and 2002, accounts payable and accrued expense includes $888, and $79, respectively, due to HHM. On January 1, 2002, the
TRS Lessee purchased accounts receivable aggregating approximately $781 from HHM in exchange for a note payable to HHM of the same amount, originally due April 30, 2002 and bearing interest at a rate of 4%. The note was repaid in full in July
2003.      On August 1, 2004, the TRS Lessee entered into a hotel management agreement with Royal Host Management, Inc., a publicly owned
real estate investment trust. Royal Host, the parent of Royal Host Management, is an owner, franchisor and manager of limited and focused service hotel properties in the United States and Canada.      The principal provisions of the agreement are as follows:       

Royal Host Management is paid a base fee equal to 4.75% of gross hotel income on 70 hotels and 4.00% of gross hotel income on 6 hotels;         

if annual net operating income exceeds 10% of the Company s total investment in the hotels, then Royal Host receives an incentive fee of 10% of the excess net operating income
up to the first $1 million, and 20% of excess net operating income above $1 million;         

the agreement runs through December 31, 2009 and is automatically extended for five years thereafter if specific net operating income levels are achieved, subject to Royal Host
Management s option not to extend the agreement;         

either party may terminate the agreement if net operating income is not at least 8.5% of the Company s total investment in the hotels or if the Company undergoes a change in
control (if TRS Lessee terminates the agreement for a change in control, then Royal Host Management is paid a termination fee equal to 50% of its basic management fee for the prior 12 months);         

TRS Lessee may terminate the agreement if any of the hotels fails three successive franchisor inspections if the deficiencies are within the reasonable control of Royal Host
Management; and         

TRS Lessee may also terminate the agreement if tax laws change to allow a hotel REIT to self manage its properties (in which event we would pay Royal Host Management a termination
fee equal to 50% of its basic management fee for the prior 12 months).           
   53   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)       In January 2003, the Company obtained a $780 loan from Southern Community Bank   Trust ( Southern ). George R. Whittemore, Director of
the Company, is a member of the Board of Directors of Southern. Further information about the loan from Southern is presented in Note 5.      From January 2003 until August 2004, the Company paid rents and other charges to HHM for the office space it occupied in Columbia, MD. The Company paid base rents of $62 and $71 to HHM for 2004 and 2003, respectively.        The Company assumed land lease agreements in conjunction with purchases of two hotels. One lease requires monthly payments of the greater of $2 or
5% of room revenue through November 2091. The second lease requires an annual payment of $35 through May 2025. Land lease expense totaled approximately $89, $ 86 and $83 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and is included in property operating
expense.         As of December 31, 2005, the future minimum lease payments applicable to non-cancelable land leases are as follows:
      
     Note 8. Capital Stock and Operating Partnership Units       The Company s common stock is duly authorized, full paid and non-assessable. At December 31, 2005, members of the Board of Directors owned approximately 23% of
the Company s outstanding common stock.      At December 31, 2005, 372,195 of SLP s common operating partnership units ( Common OP
Units ) and 195,610 of SLP s preferred operating partnership units ( Preferred OP Units ) were outstanding. Each limited partner of SLP may, subject to certain limitations, require that SLP redeem all or a portion of his or her
Common OP Units or Preferred OP Units, at any time after a specified period following the date he or she acquired the units, by delivering a redemption notice to SLP. When a limited partner tenders his or her Common OP Units to SLP for redemption,
the Company can, in its sole discretion, choose to purchase the units for either (1) a number of shares of Company common stock equal to the number of units redeemed (subject to certain adjustments) or (2) cash in an amount equal to the
market value of the number of shares of Company common stock the limited partner would have received if the Company chose to purchase the units for common stock. The Preferred OP Units are convertible by the holders into Common OP Units on a
one-for-one basis or may be redeemed for cash at $10 per unit until October 2009. The Preferred OP Units receive a preferred dividend distribution of $1.10 per preferred unit annually, payable on a monthly basis and do not participate in the
allocations of profits and losses of SLP. During 2005 and 2004, 4,434 and 10,479 respectively, Common OP Units were redeemed for common shares of SHI and no preferred units were redeemed for cash or converted to common stock. In addition, the
Company agreed to allow the redemption of 127,439 Preferred OP Units at any time, subject to a 60-day notification period.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)       On January 3, 2003, James I. Humphrey, Jr., a director of the Company at that time and the sole shareholder of HHM at December 31, 2003,
exercised his redemption rights and caused SHI to redeem his Common OP Units in exchange for 731,234 shares of common stock of the Company. Following the redemption, Mr. Humphrey held 5,279 Common OP Units through a company he controlled
(Humphrey Associates, Inc.). These Common OP Units are also subject to redemption.      On December 30, 2005 the Company offered and sold
1,521,258 shares of 8% Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. The shares were sold for $10.00 per share and bear a liquidation preference of $10.00 per share. Underwriting and other costs of the offering totaled $1.2 million. The proceeds were used
to reduce borrowings under the Company s revolving credit facility with Great Western Bank.      Dividends on the Series A Convertible
Preferred stock are cumulative and are payable monthly in arrears on the last day of each month, at the annual rate of 8% of the $10.00 liquidation preference per share, equivalent to a fixed annual amount of $.80 per share. Dividends on the Series
A Convertible Preferred Stock accrue regardless of whether or not the Company has earnings, whether there are funds legally available for the payment of such dividends and whether or not such dividends are declared. Unpaid dividends will accumulate
and earn additional dividends at 8%, compounded monthly.      The Series A convertible preferred stock with respect to dividend rights and
rights upon the Company s liquidation, dissolution or winding up, ranks senior to all classes or series of the Company s common stock, senior or on parity with all other classes or series of preferred stock and junior to all of the
Company s existing and future indebtedness. Upon liquidation all preferred stock will be entitled to $10.00 per share plus accrued but unpaid dividends. The Company will not pay any distributions, or set aside any funds for the payment of
distributions, on its common shares unless it has also paid (or set aside for payment) the full cumulative distributions on the preferred shares for the current and all past dividend periods. The outstanding preferred shares do not have any maturity
date, and are not subject to mandatory redemption.      Each share of Series A convertible preferred stock is convertible in whole or in part,
at any time at the option of the holders thereof, into common stock at a conversion price of $5.66 per share of common stock (equivalent to a conversion rate of 1.77 shares of common stock for each share of Series A convertible preferred stock)
subject to certain adjustments. The Company may not optionally redeem the Series A preferred shares prior to January 1, 2009, except in limited circumstances to preserve its status as a REIT.      The conversion rights of the holders of the Series A convertible preferred stock are subject to cancellation on or after December 31, 2008 if the
closing price of the Company common stock on the Nasdaq National Market exceeds $7.36 for at least 20 trading days within any period of 30 consecutive trading days. The Company will issue a conversion cancellation notice to holder of the Series A
convertible preferred stock specifying the date the conversion rights will be deemed cancelled if the holder chooses to exercise this option. In the event the Company issues a conversion cancellation notice, the Series A convertible preferred stock
will be redeemable on or after January 1, 2009 for cash, at the Company s option, in whole or from time to time in part, at $10.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends to the redemption date. Otherwise the Series A convertible
preferred stock will be redeemable for cash, at the Company s option in whole or from time to time in part, at:      $10.80 per share on or after January 1, 2009      $10.40 per share on or after January 1, 2010; and
     $10.00 per share on or after January 1, 2011,      plus accrued and unpaid dividends to the redemption date.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)       On December 30, 2005, the Company issued warrants to Anderson   Strudwick Incorporated, the selling agent for the Company in its public
offering of the Series A Preferred Stock, to purchase 126,311 shares of Series A convertible preferred stock. The warrants will be exercisable until December 31, 2010 at $12.00 per share of Series A convertible preferred stock. The warrants may
not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or hypothecated for a period of one year after their issuance, except to officers of the selling agent.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        Note 9. Supplementary Data       The following table presents our unaudited quarterly
results of operations:       
       
   57   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        
    There were no impairment losses and no sale of properties for 2005.      There were no impairment losses recorded for 2004. The amounts of gain on sales of properties are $67 ($.01 per share), $329 ($.03 per share), $347 ($.03
per share) and $2 ($.00 per share) for quarters ended March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004, September 30, 2004 and December 31, 2004, respectively.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   CONTINUED        December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003        (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)        Note 10. Subsequent Event       On February 17, 2006, the Company entered into a First Amendment to
Loan Agreement with Great Western Bank which extends (a) the maturity date of the Loan Agreement dated January 13, 2005 between the parties from January 13, 2007 to January 13, 2008 and (b) the date on which the loan limit
of the Loan Agreement is reduced from $22 million to $20 million from February 1, 2006 to February 13, 2007.      On January 13,
2006, the Company acquired a hotel located in Clarinda, IA, under the franchise of Super 8. The acquisition amount was $1.3 million, which was funded from our revolving credit facility with Great Western Bank.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        SCHEDULE III   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
       As of December 31, 2005        
       
   60   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        SCHEDULE III   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION - CONTINUED        As
of December 31, 2005        
       
   61   

Table of Contents  

Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        SCHEDULE III   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION -
CONTINUED        As of December 31, 2005        
       
   62   

Table of Contents  

    Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        SCHEDULE III   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION - CONTINUED        As
of December 31, 2005        
    Encumbrance codes refer to the following lenders:       

GRW = Greenwich Capital Loan   
     
  FNB = First National Bank of Omaha  

REG = Regions Bank (FL)   
     
  SUS = Susquehanna Bank  

GWB = Great Western Bank   
     
  FCNB = First Citizens National Bank  

VB = Village Bank   
     
  SBA = Small Business Administration  

NON = Unencumbered   
     
  CITI = Citigroup Global Markets Realty  

GE = GE Capital Franchise Finance   
     
  WF = Wells Fargo Bank  

63   

Table of Contents  

Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO SCHEDULE III   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2005        

(c)  
  The aggregate cost of land, buildings, furniture and equipment for the Company s hotels for Federal income tax purposes is approximately $204 million.     

(d)  
  Depreciation is computed based upon the following useful lives:         

(e)  
  The Company has mortgages payable on the properties as noted. Additional mortgage information can be found in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
          
   64   

Table of Contents  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure       None.
      
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures       Evaluation was performed under the supervision of management, with
the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as of December 31, 2005 of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15 of the rules promulgated
under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures provide reasonable assurance that such disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely providing them with material information relating to the Company (including its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be
included in the Company s periodic Securities and Exchange Commission filings. No changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting occurred during the last fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.       
  Item 9B. Other Information       The unaudited pro forma financial statement of operations for the year
ended December 31, 2005 which gives effect to our acquisitions in November 2005 of 6 hotels from Independent Property Operators of America, LLC as if it had occurred as of January 1, 2005 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.       
  PART III        
  Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant       Information concerning the directors and
executive officers of the Company is incorporated by reference to the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the  2006 Proxy Statement ) under the captions  Election of
Directors,   Executive Officers  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.       The Board of
Directors has determined that Patrick J. Jung is an  audit committee financial expert  as that term is defined in the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and additionally,
has determined that Mr. Jung is independent as that term is used in Item 7(d)(3)(iv) of Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act.      The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and has posted the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics on its Web site. The Company
intends to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 10 of Form 8-K relating to amendments to or waivers from any provision of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer by posting that information on the Company s Web site at  www.supertelinc.com .       
  Item 11. Executive Compensation       Information regarding executive and director compensation is incorporated
by reference to the 2006 Proxy Statement under the captions  Executive Officer Compensation,   Director Compensation  and  Compensation Committee Report.  Information regarding the Company s stock performance is
incorporated by reference to the 2006 Proxy Statement under the caption  Performance Graph.          
   65   

Table of Contents  

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       Information regarding the stock ownership of each person known to the Company to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of the Common Stock, of each director and executive officer of Supertel Hospitality, Inc., and all directors and
executive officers as a group, is incorporated by reference to the 2006 Proxy Statement under the caption  Ownership of the Company s Common Stock By Management and Certain Beneficial Owners.  No securities of the Company are
authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans at December 31, 2005.       
  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions       Information regarding certain relationships and
related transactions is incorporated by reference to the 2006 Proxy Statement under the caption  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.        
  Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services       The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the material in the 2006 Proxy Statement under the caption  Principal Accountant Fees and Services  and  Pre-approval Policies.        
  PART IV        
  Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules        

(a)  
   Financial Statements and Schedules.          

(b)  
   Exhibits.         3.1* Second Amended and Restated Articles of
Incorporation of the Company, as amended.      3.2 Bylaws of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004)      10.1* Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Supertel Limited Partnership, as
amended.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

   10.2 Form of Master Lease Agreement made as of January 1, 2002 by and between Supertel Limited Partnership, E P
Financing Limited Partnership, Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership and TRS Leasing, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).   
  10.3 Loan Agreement dated as of November 26, 2002 by and among Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership, TRS Subsidiary, LLC and Greenwich Capital Financial
Products, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002).      10.4 Promissory
Note between Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership, TRS Subsidiary, LLC and Greenwich Capital Financial Products, Inc. dated as of November 26, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K
dated November 26, 2002).      10.5 Guaranty of Recourse Obligations made by the Company in favor of Greenwich Capital Financial Products, Inc., dated as
of November 26, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002).      10.6
Pledge and Security Agreement by the Company, Supertel Limited Partnership, TRS Leasing, Inc. and Solomons GP, LLC, for the benefit of Greenwich Capital Financial Products, Inc. dated as of November 26, 2002 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.4 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002).      10.7 Master Lease Agreement dated as of November 26,
2002, between Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership and TRS Subsidiary, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002).      10.8 First Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement dated as of November 26, 2002 between Supertel Limited Partnership, E P Financing Limited Partnership,
TRS Leasing, Inc. and Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002).      10.9 Form of Preferred Stock Warrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Company s Amendment to Registration Statement on Form S-1/A (333-129376) filed on December 23, 2005).      10.10 Hotel Management Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2004 between TRS Leasing, Inc., TRS Subsidiary, LLC and Royal Host Management, Inc. (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004).      10.11 Loan Agreement dated
January 13, 2005 by and between the Company and Great Western Bank (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 13, 2005).      10.12 Employment Agreement dated as of September 1, 2005 by and between the Company and Paul Schulte (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 25, 2005).      10.13 Employment Agreement dated as of September 1, 2005 by and between the
Company and Don Heimes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 25, 2005).      21.0*
Subsidiaries.      23.1* Consent of KPMG LLP.      31.1*
Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.      31.2* Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

   32.1* Section 906 Certifications.      99.1* Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Data      Pursuant to Item 601 (b)(4) of Regulation S-K, certain
instruments with respect to the Company s long-term debt are not filed with this Form 10-K. The Company will furnish a copy of any such long-term debt agreement to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.        

*  
  Filed herewith           
   68   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

SUPERTEL HOSPITALITY, INC.   

By:  
     
    /s/ Paul J. Schulte    
 
  March 30, 2006  

Paul J. Schulte   

President and Chief Executive Officer   
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated and on the date indicated above.       

By:  
     
    /s/ Paul J. Schulte   
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ Joseph Caggiano    

Paul J. Schulte  

Joseph Caggiano   

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Director   

(principal executive officer)  

By:  
     
    /s/ Donavon A. Heimes   
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ Jeffrey M. Zwerdling    

Donavon A. Heimes  

Jeffrey M. Zwerdling   

Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Corporate Secretary (principal financial and accounting officer)  

Director   

By:  
     
    /s/ Paul J. Schulte   
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ Allen L. Dayton    

Paul J. Schulte  

Allen L. Dayton   

Chairman of the Board  

Director   

By:  
     
    /s/ Steve H. Borgmann   
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ George R. Whittemore    

Steve H. Borgmann  

George R. Whittemore   

Director  

Director   

By:  
     
    /s/ Loren Steele   
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ Patrick J. Jung    

Loren Steele  

Patrick J. Jung   

Director  

Director   
       
   69   

Table of Contents  

    EXHIBIT INDEX       3.1* Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company, as amended.      3.2 Bylaws of the Company (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.2 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004)      10.1* Third Amended and Restated Agreement of
Limited Partnership of Supertel Limited Partnership, as amended.      10.2 Form of Master Lease Agreement made as of January 1, 2002 by and between
Supertel Limited Partnership, E P Financing Limited Partnership, Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership and TRS Leasing, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2001).      10.3 Loan Agreement dated as of November 26, 2002 by and among Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership, TRS Subsidiary, LLC
and Greenwich Capital Financial Products, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002).      10.4 Promissory Note between Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership, TRS Subsidiary, LLC and Greenwich Capital Financial Products, Inc. dated as of November 26, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002).      10.5 Guaranty of Recourse Obligations made by the Company in favor of
Greenwich Capital Financial Products, Inc., dated as of November 26, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002).      10.6 Pledge and Security Agreement by the Company, Supertel Limited Partnership, TRS Leasing, Inc. and Solomons GP, LLC, for the benefit of Greenwich Capital Financial
Products, Inc. dated as of November 26, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002).      10.7 Master Lease Agreement dated as of November 26, 2002, between Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership and TRS Subsidiary, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company s Current Report
on Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002).      10.8 First Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement dated as of November 26, 2002 between Supertel
Limited Partnership, E P Financing Limited Partnership, TRS Leasing, Inc. and Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002).
     10.9 Form of Preferred Stock Warrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Company s Amendment to Registration Statement on Form S-1/A
(333-129376) filed on December 23, 2005).      10.10 Hotel Management Agreement, dated as of August 1, 2004 between TRS Leasing, Inc., TRS
Subsidiary, LLC and Royal Host Management, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004).      10.11 Loan Agreement dated January 13, 2005 by and between the Company and Great Western Bank (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 13,
2005).      10.12 Employment Agreement dated as of September 1, 2005 by and between the Company and Paul Schulte (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 25, 2005).      10.13 Employment Agreement dated as of September 1, 2005 by and
between the Company and Don Heimes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 25, 2005).      21.0* Subsidiaries.      23.1* Consent of KPMG LLP.      31.1* Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer.      31.2* Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer.      32.1* Section 906 Certifications.      99.1* Unaudited Pro Forma
Consolidated Financial Data      Pursuant to Item 601 (b)(4) of Regulation S-K, certain instruments with respect to the Company s long-term debt are
not filed with this Form 10-K. The Company will furnish a copy of any such long-term debt agreement to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.        

*  
  Filed herewith           
   70   

<EX-3.1>
 2
 dex31.htm
 SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OF THE COMPANY

Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company 

Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Supertel Hospitality, Inc.       EXHIBIT 3.1       ARTICLES OF AMENDMENT
     TO THE      SECOND AMENDED AND
     RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION      OF      HUMPHREY HOSPITALITY TRUST, INC.      The undersigned corporation pursuant to Title 13.1, Chapter 9, Article 11 of the Code of Virginia, hereby executes the following Articles of Amendment and sets forth:       

1.  
  The name of the corporation (which is hereinafter referred to as the  Corporation ) is Humphrey Hospitality Trust, Inc.         

2.  
  The amendment to the Corporation s Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation is as follows:        Article I of said Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation is deleted in its entirety and replaced by the following:       I.      The name of the Corporation (which
is hereinafter called the  Corporation ) is Supertel Hospitality, Inc.        

3.  
  The Articles of Amendment were unanimously adopted by the Corporation s Board of Directors on March 4, 2005.         

4.  
  The Articles of Amendment were proposed by the Corporation s Board of Directors and submitted to the shareholders in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 9 of Title 13.1
of the Code of Virginia, and         

(a)  
  The designation, number of outstanding shares, and number of votes entitled to be cast by each voting group entitled to vote separately on the Articles of Amendment were:

(b)  
  The total number of undisputed votes cast for the Articles of Amendment separately by each voting group was:         

Voting Group    
      
   Total No. of Undisputed Votes Cast FOR the Articles of Amendment    
 
    Common Stock, $.01 par value per share   
      
  11,126,043   

(c)  
  The number of votes cast for the Articles of Amendment by each voting group was sufficient for approval by that voting group.         

Dated: May 26, 2005  
     
  Humphrey Hospitality Trust, Inc.   

By:  
     
    /s/ Paul J. Schulte    

Name:  
     
  Paul J. Schulte   

Title:  
     
  President and Chief Executive Officer   

SECOND      AMENDED AND RESTATED      ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION      OF      HUMPHREY HOSPITALITY TRUST, INC.      (A Stock Corporation)      I.      The name of the corporation (which is hereinafter called the  Corporation ) is Humphrey Hospitality Trust, Inc.      II.      The purpose for which this Corporation is formed is to
transact any and all lawful business, not required to be specifically stated in these Articles, for which corporations may be incorporated under the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, as amended from time to time.      III.      The total number of shares of stock that the
Corporation has authority to issue is 25 million (25,000,000) shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, and ten million (10,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock, $.01 par value per share.      No holder of shares of capital stock of the Corporation shall have any preemptive or preferential right to subscribe to or purchase (i) any shares of any class of
the Corporation, whether now or hereafter authorized; (ii) any warrants, rights, or options to purchase any such shares; or (iii) any securities or obligations convertible into any such shares or into warrants, rights, or options to
purchase any such shares.   

The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, in such series and with
such preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, qualifications or other provisions as may be fixed by the Board of Directors.      IV.      The address of the Corporation s initial registered office is Riverfront Plaza, East Tower,
951 E. Byrd Street, which is in the City of Richmond. The name and address of the initial Registered Agent is Thurston R. Moore, who is a resident of Virginia and a member of the Virginia State Bar, and whose business address is Riverfront Plaza,
East Tower, 951 East Byrd Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219-4074, which is in the City of Richmond.      V.      A. The Corporation shall have a Board of Directors consisting of not less than three (3) nor more than nine (9) members unless otherwise determined from time
to time by resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders. A director need not be a shareholder. At the annual meeting of shareholders, the shareholders shall elect directors to serve a one-year term and until their
successors are duly elected and qualified.      B. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, at all times (except during a period not to exceed sixty
(60) days following the death, resignation, incapacity or removal from office of a director prior to expiration of the director s term of office), a majority of the Board of Directors shall be comprised of persons who are  Independent
Directors.  Independent Directors are persons who are not officers or employees of the Corporation or  Affiliates  of (i) any advisor to the Corporation under an advisory agreement, (ii) any lessee of any property of the
Corporation, (iii) any subsidiary of the Corporation or (iv) any partnership which is an Affiliate of the Corporation.         
   -2-   

C. For purposes of the foregoing subsection,  Affiliate  of a person shall mean (i) any person that,
directly or indirectly, controls or is controlled by or is under common control with such person, (ii) any other person that owns, beneficially, directly or indirectly, five percent (5%) or more of the outstanding capital stock, shares or
equity interests of such person, or (iii) any officer, director, employee, partner or trustee of such person or any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such person (excluding directors and persons serving in similar
capacities who are not otherwise an Affiliate of such person). The term  person  means and includes individuals, corporations, general and limited partnerships, stock companies or associations, joint ventures, associations, companies,
trusts, banks, trust companies, land trusts, business trusts, or other entities and governments and agencies and political subdivisions thereof. For the purposes of this definition,  control  (including the correlative meanings of the
terms  controlled by  and  under common control with ), as used with respect to any person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such
person, through the ownership of voting securities, partnership interests or other equity interests.      D. Notwithstanding any other provisions of these
Articles of Incorporation or the bylaws of the Corporation (and notwithstanding that some lesser percentage may be specified by law, these Articles of Incorporation or the bylaws of the Corporation), the provisions of this Article V shall not be
amended, altered, changed or repealed without the approval of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors or the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation
entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting separately as a class.         
   -3-   

VI.      Except
as expressly otherwise required by these Articles of Incorporation, (i) an amendment to or restatement of these Articles of Incorporation for which the Virginia Stock Corporation Act requires shareholder approval, (ii) the approval of a
plan of merger or share exchange for which the Virginia Stock Corporation Act requires shareholder approval, (iii) the approval of a sale of all, or substantially all of the Corporation s property, other than in the usual and regular
course of business or (iv) the approval of the dissolution of the Corporation shall be approved by a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by each voting group that is entitled to vote on the matter, unless in submitting any such matter to
the shareholders the Board of Directors shall require a greater vote.      VII.      A. In this Article:       Applicant  means the Person seeking indemnification pursuant to this Article.       Expenses  includes counsel fees.       Liability  means
the obligation to pay a judgment, settlement, penalty, fine, including any excise tax assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan, or reasonable expenses incurred with respect to a proceeding.       Party  includes an individual who was, is, or is threatened to be made a named defendant or respondent in a proceeding.         
   -4-   

Proceeding  means any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative and whether formal or informal.      B. In any proceeding brought by or in the right of the Corporation or brought by or on
behalf of shareholders of the Corporation, no director or officer of the Corporation shall be liable to the Corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages with respect to any transaction, occurrence or course of conduct, whether prior or
subsequent to the effective date of this Article, except for liability resulting from such Person s having engaged in willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the criminal law or any federal or state securities law.      C. The Corporation shall indemnify (i) any Person who was or is a party to any proceeding, including a proceeding brought by a shareholder in the right of the
Corporation or brought by or on behalf of shareholders of the Corporation, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or (ii) any director or officer who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation
as a director, trustee, partner, member or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against any liability incurred by him in connection with such
proceeding, unless he engaged in gross negligence, willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the criminal law. A Person is considered to be serving an employee benefit plan at the Corporation s request if his duties to the Corporation also
impose duties on, or otherwise involve services by, him to the plan or to participants in or beneficiaries of the plan. The Board of Directors is hereby empowered, by a majority vote of a quorum of disinterested directors, to enter into a contract
to indemnify any director or officer in respect of any proceedings arising from any act or omission, whether occurring before or after the execution of such contract.         
   -5-   

D. The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to all proceedings commenced after the adoption hereof by the
Corporation, arising from any act or omission, whether occurring before or after such adoption. No amendment or repeal of this Article shall have any effect on the rights provided under this Article with respect to any act or omission occurring
prior to such amendment or repeal. The Corporation shall promptly take all such actions, and make all such determinations, as shall be necessary or appropriate to comply with its obligation to make any indemnity under this Article and shall promptly
pay or reimburse all reasonable expenses, including attorneys  fees, incurred by any such indemnified Person in connection with such actions and determinations or proceedings of any kind arising therefrom.      E. The termination of any proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not of itself create a
presumption that the applicant did not meet the standard of conduct described in Section B or C of this Article.      F. Any indemnification under Section C of
this Article (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the applicant is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of
conduct set forth in Section C.      The determination shall be made:      1. By the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors not at the time parties to the proceeding;         
   -6-   

2. If a quorum cannot be obtained under subsection 1 of this Section, by majority vote of a committee duly designated by
the Board of Directors (in which designation directors who are parties may participate), consisting solely of two or more directors not at the time parties to the proceeding;      3. By special legal counsel:      a. Selected by the Board of Directors or its committee in the manner prescribed in subsection
1 or 2 of this Section; or      b. If a quorum of the Board of Directors cannot be obtained under subsection 1 of this Section and a committee cannot be
designated under subsection 2 of this Section, selected by majority vote of the full Board of Directors, in which selection directors who are parties may participate; or      4. By the shareholders, but shares owned by or voted under the control of directors who are at the time parties to the proceeding may not be voted on the determination.      Any evaluation as to reasonableness of expenses shall be made in the same manner as the determination that indemnification is appropriate, except that if the
determination is made by special legal counsel, such evaluation as to reasonableness of expenses shall be made by those entitled under subsection 3 of this Section F to select counsel.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event there has been a change in the composition of a majority of the Board of Directors after the date of the alleged act or omission with respect to which indemnification is
claimed, any determination as to indemnification and advancement of expenses with respect to any claim for indemnification made pursuant to this Article shall be made by special legal counsel agreed upon by the Board of Directors and the applicant.
        
   -7-   

If the Board of Directors and the applicant are unable to agree upon such special legal counsel the Board of Directors
and the applicant each shall select a nominee, and the nominees shall select such special legal counsel.      G. 1. The Corporation shall pay for or reimburse
the reasonable expenses incurred by any applicant who is a party to a proceeding in advance of final disposition of the proceeding or the making of any determination under Section F if the applicant furnishes the Corporation:      a. a written statement of his good faith belief that he has met the standard of conduct described in Section C; and      b. a written undertaking, executed personally or on his behalf, to repay the advance if it is ultimately determined that he did not meet such standard of conduct.
     2. The undertaking required by paragraph (b) of subsection 1 of this Section shall be an unlimited general obligation of the applicant but need not
be secured and may be accepted without reference to financial ability to make repayment.      3. Authorizations of payments under this Section shall be made by
the Persons specified in Section F.      H. The Board of Directors is hereby empowered, by majority vote of a quorum consisting of disinterested directors, to
cause the Corporation to indemnify or contract to indemnify any Person not specified in Section B or C of this Article who was, is or may become a party to any proceeding, by reason of the fact that he is or was an employee or agent of the
Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, to the same extent as if such Person
were specified as one to whom indemnification is granted in Section C. The provisions of Sections D through G of this Article shall be applicable to any indemnification provided hereafter pursuant to this Section H.         
   -8-   

I. The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to indemnify it against the whole or any portion of the liability
assumed by it in accordance with this Article and may also procure insurance, in such amounts as the Board of Directors may determine, on behalf of any Person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was
serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against any liability asserted against or incurred by him in
any such capacity or arising from his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article.      J. Every reference herein to directors, officers, employees or agents shall include former directors, officers, employees and agents and their respective heirs, executors and administrators. The indemnification hereby
provided and provided hereafter pursuant to the power hereby conferred by this Article on the Board of Directors shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which any Person may be entitled, including any right under policies of insurance that may
be purchased and maintained by the Corporation or others, with respect to claims, issues or matters in relation to which the Corporation would not have the power to indemnify such Person under the provisions of this Article. Such rights shall not
prevent or restrict the power of the Corporation to make or provide for any further indemnity, or provisions for determining entitlement to indemnity, pursuant to one or more indemnification agreements, bylaws, or other arrangements (including,
without limitation, creation of trust funds or security interests funded by letters of credit or other means) approved  
       
   -9-   

by the Board of Directors (whether or not any of the directors of the Corporation shall be a party to or beneficiary of any such agreements, bylaws or
arrangements); provided, however, that any provision of such agreements, bylaws or other arrangements shall not be effective if and to the extent that it is determined to be contrary to this Article or applicable laws of the Commonwealth of
Virginia.      K. Each provision of this Article shall be severable, and an adverse determination as to any such provision shall in no way affect the validity
of any other provision.      VIII.      The
Corporation shall seek to elect and maintain status as a REIT under the Code. It shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to ensure that the Corporation satisfies the requirements for qualification as a REIT under the Code, including, but not
limited to, the ownership of its outstanding stock, the nature of its assets, the sources of its income, and the amount and timing of its distributions to its shareholders. The Board of Directors shall take no action to disqualify the Corporation as
a REIT or to otherwise revoke the Corporation s election to be taxed as a REIT without the affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the number of shares of Common Stock entitled to vote on such matter at a special meeting of the
shareholders.      IX.      A. Restrictions on
Transfer.      1. Definitions. The following terms shall have the following meanings:       Beneficial Ownership  shall mean ownership of shares of Equity Stock by a Person who would be treated as an owner of such shares of Equity Stock either directly or indirectly through the application of
Section 544 of the Code, as modified by Section 856(h)(1)(B) of the Code. The terms  Beneficial Owner,   Beneficially Owns,  and  Beneficially Owned  shall have correlative meanings.         
   -10-   

Beneficiary  shall mean, with respect to any Trust, one or more organizations described in each of
Section 170(b)(1)(A) (other than clauses (vii) or (viii) thereof) and Section 170(c)(2) of the Code that are named by the Corporation as the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Trust, in accordance with the provisions of Section
(B)(1) of Article VIII hereof.       Board of Directors  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation.       Constructive Ownership  shall mean ownership of shares of Equity Stock by a Person who would be treated as an owner of such shares of Equity Stock either
directly or indirectly through the application of Section 318 of the Code, as modified by Section 856(d)(5) of the Code. The terms  Constructive Owner,   Constructively Owns,  and  Constructively Owned  shall
have correlative meanings.       Equity Stock  shall mean Preferred Stock and Common Stock of the Corporation. The term  Equity Stock 
shall include all shares of Preferred Stock and Common Stock of the Corporation that are held as Shares-in-Trust in accordance with the provisions of Section (B) of Article VIII hereof.       Humphrey Partnership Agreement  shall mean the agreement of limited partnership establishing Humphrey Hospitality Limited Partnership, a Virginia limited
partnership, as amended and restated from time to time.       Market Price  on any date shall mean the average of the Closing Price for the five
consecutive Trading Days ending on such date. The  Closing Price  on any date shall mean the last sale price, regular way, or, in  
       
   -11-   

case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal
consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the shares of Equity Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in
the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares of Equity Stock are listed or admitted to trading or, if the shares of Equity Stock are not
listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price, or if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or, if such system is no longer in use, the principal other automated quotations system that may then be in use or, if the shares of Equity Stock are not quoted by any such organization, the average of the
closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the shares of Equity Stock selected by the Board of Directors.       Trading Day  shall mean a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the shares of Equity Stock are listed or admitted to trading is open for the transaction of business or, if the shares of Equity Stock are
not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
      Non-Transfer Event  shall mean an event other than a purported Transfer that would cause any Person to Beneficially Own or Constructively Own
shares of Equity Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit,  
       
   -12-   

including, but not limited to, the granting of any option or entering into any agreement for the sale, transfer or other disposition of shares of Equity
Stock or the sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of any securities or rights convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Equity Stock.       Ownership Limit  shall mean, with respect to the Common Stock, 9.9% of the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock and, with respect to any class or series of Preferred Stock, 9.9% of the number of outstanding shares of such
class or series of Preferred Stock.       Permitted Transferee  shall mean any Person designated as a Permitted Transferee in accordance with the
provisions of Section (B)(5) of Article VIII hereof.       Person  shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership, estate, trust, a portion of a
trust permanently set aside for or to be used exclusively for the purposes described in Section 642(c) of the Code, association, private foundation within the meaning of Section 509(a) of the Code, joint stock company or other entity and
also includes a  group  as that term is used for purposes of Section 12(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       Prohibited Owner  shall mean, with respect to any purported Transfer or Non-Transfer Event, any Person who, but for the provisions of Section (A)(3) of Article VIII hereof, would own record title to shares of Equity Stock.
      Redemption Rights  shall mean the rights granted under the Humphrey Partnership Agreement to the limited partners to redeem, under certain
circumstances, their limited partnership interests for shares of Common Stock (or cash at the option of the Corporation).         
   -13-   

Restriction Termination Date  shall mean the first day after which (i) the Board of Directors determines
that it is no longer in the best interests of the Corporation to attempt to, or continue to, qualify as a REIT and (ii) there is an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the number of shares of Common Stock entitled to vote on such matter at a
special meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation.       Shares-in-Trust  shall mean any shares of Equity Stock designated Shares-in-Trust
pursuant to Section (A)(3) of Article VIII hereof.       Transfer  (as a noun) shall mean any sale, transfer, gift, assignment, devise or other
disposition of shares of Equity Stock, whether voluntary or involuntary, whether of record, constructively or beneficially and whether by operation of law or otherwise.  Transfer  (as a verb) shall not have the correlative meaning.
      Trust  shall mean any separate trust created pursuant to Section (A)(3) of Article VIII hereof and administered in accordance with the terms of
Section (B) of Article VIII hereof, for the exclusive benefit of any Beneficiary.       Trustee  shall mean any Person or entity unaffiliated
with both the Corporation and any Prohibited Owner, such Trustee to be designated by the Corporation to act as trustee of any Trust, or any successor trustee thereof.      2. Restriction on Transfers.      a. Except as
provided in Section (A)(7) of Article VIII hereof, prior to the Restriction Termination Date, (i) no Person shall Beneficially Own or Constructively Own outstanding shares of Equity Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit and (ii) any
Transfer that, if effective, would result in any Person Beneficially Owning or Constructively Owning shares of Equity Stock in excess of  
       
   -14-   

the Ownership Limit shall be void ab initio as to the Transfer of that number of shares of Equity Stock which would be otherwise Beneficially Owned or
Constructively Owned by such Person in excess of the Ownership Limit, and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such excess shares of Equity Stock.      b. Except as provided in Section (A)(7) of Article VIII hereof, prior to the Restriction Termination Date, any Transfer that, if effective, would result in shares of Equity Stock being beneficially owned by fewer than 100 Persons
(determined without reference to any rules of attribution) shall be void ab initio as to the Transfer of that number of shares which would be otherwise beneficially owned (determined without reference to any rules of attribution) by the transferee,
and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such shares of Equity Stock.      c. Prior to the Restriction Termination Date, any Transfer of shares
of Equity Stock that, if effective, would result in the Corporation being  closely held  within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code shall be void ab initio as to the Transfer of that number of shares of Equity Stock which would
cause the Corporation to be  closely held  within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code, and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such shares of Equity Stock.      d. Prior to the Restriction Termination Date, any Transfer of shares of Equity Stock that, if effective, would cause the Corporation to Constructively Own 10% or more of
the ownership interests in a tenant of the Corporation s real property, within the meaning of Section 856(d)(2)(B) of the Code, shall be void ab initio as to the Transfer of that number of shares of Equity Stock which would cause the
Corporation to Constructively Own 10% or more of the ownership interests in a tenant of the  
       
   -15 -   

Corporation s real property, within the meaning of Section 856(d)(2)(B) of the Code, and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such
excess shares of Equity Stock.      3. Transfer to Trust.      a. If, notwithstanding the other provisions contained in this Section (A) of Article VIII, at any time prior to the Restriction Termination Date, there is a purported Transfer or Non-Transfer Event such that any
Person would either Beneficially Own or Constructively Own shares of Equity Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit, then, (i) except as otherwise provided in Section (A)(7) of Article VIII hereof, the purported transferee shall acquire no right
or interest (or, in the case of a Non-Transfer Event, the Person holding record title to the shares of Equity Stock Beneficially Owned or Constructively Owned by such Beneficial Owner or Constructive Owner, shall cease to own any right or interest)
in such number of shares of Equity Stock which would cause such Beneficial Owner or Constructive Owner to Beneficially Own or Constructively Own shares of Equity Stock in excess of the Ownership Limit, (ii) such number of shares of Equity Stock
in excess of the Ownership Limit (rounded up to the nearest whole share) shall be designated Shares-in-Trust and, in accordance with the provisions of Section (B) of Article VIII hereof, transferred automatically and by operation of law to the
Trust to be held in accordance with that Section (B) of Article VIII, and (iii) the Prohibited Owner shall submit such number of shares of Equity Stock to the Corporation for registration in the name of the Trustee. Such transfer to a
Trust and the designation of shares as Shares-in-Trust shall be effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of the Transfer or Non-Transfer Event, as the case may be.         
   -16-   

b. If, notwithstanding the other provisions contained in this Section (A) of Article VIII, at any time prior to the
Restriction Termination Date, there is a purported Transfer or Non-Transfer Event that, if effective, would (i) result in the shares of Equity Stock being beneficially owned by fewer than 100 Persons (determined without reference to any rules
of attribution), (ii) result in the Corporation being  closely held  within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code, or (iii) cause the Corporation to Constructively Own 10% or more of the ownership interests in a tenant
of the Corporation s real property, within the meaning of Section 856(d)(2)(B) of the Code, then (x) the purported transferee shall not acquire any right or interest (or, in the case of a Non-Transfer Event, the Person holding record
title of the shares of Equity Stock with respect to which such Non-Transfer Event occurred, shall cease to own any right or interest) in such number of shares of Equity Stock, the ownership of which by such purported transferee or record holder
would (A) result in the shares of Equity Stock being beneficially owned by fewer than 100 Persons (determined without reference to any rules of attribution), (B) result in the Corporation being  closely held  within the meaning
of Section 856(h) of the Code, or (C) cause the Corporation to Constructively Own 10% or more of the ownership interests in a tenant of the Corporation s real property, within the meaning of Section 856(d)(2)(B) of the Code,
(y) such number of shares of Equity Stock (rounded up to the nearest whole share) shall be designated Shares-in-Trust and, in accordance with the provisions of Section (B) of Article VIII hereof, transferred automatically and by operation
of law to the Trust to be held in accordance with that Section (B) of Article VIII, and (z) the Prohibited Owner shall submit such number of shares of Equity Stock to the Corporation for registration in the name of the Trustee. Such
transfer to a  
       
   -17-   

Trust and the designation of shares as Shares-in-Trust shall be effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of the Transfer
or Non-Transfer Event, as the case may be.      4. Remedies For Breach. If the Corporation, or its designees, shall at any time determine in good faith that a
Transfer has taken place in violation of Section (A)(2) of Article VIII hereof or that a Person intends to acquire or has attempted to acquire Beneficial Ownership or Constructive Ownership of any shares of Equity Stock in violation of Section
(A)(2) of Article VIII hereof, the Corporation shall take such action as it deems advisable to refuse to give effect to or to prevent such Transfer or acquisition, including, but not limited to, refusing to give effect to such Transfer on the books
of the Corporation or instituting proceedings to enjoin such Transfer or acquisition.      5. Notice of Restricted Transfer. Any Person who acquires or
attempts to acquire shares of Equity Stock in violation of Section (A)(2) of Article VIII hereof, or any Person who owned shares of Equity Stock that were transferred to the Trust pursuant to the provisions of Section (A)(3) of Article VIII hereof,
shall immediately give written notice to the Corporation of such event and shall provide to the Corporation such other information as the Corporation may request in order to determine the effect, if any, of such Transfer or Non-Transfer Event, as
the case may be, on the Corporation s status as a REIT.      6. Owners Required To Provide Information. Prior to the
Restriction Termination Date:      a. Every Beneficial Owner or Constructive Owner of more than 5%, or such lower percentages as required pursuant to
regulations under the Code, of the outstanding shares of all classes of capital stock of the Corporation shall, within 30 days after January 1 of each year, provide to the Corporation a  
       
   -18-   

written statement or affidavit stating the name and address of such Beneficial Owner or Constructive Owner, the number of shares of Equity Stock Beneficially
Owned or Constructively Owned, and a description of how such shares are held. Each such Beneficial Owner or Constructive Owner shall provide to the Corporation such additional information as the Corporation may request in order to determine the
effect, if any, of such Beneficial Ownership or Constructive Ownership on the Corporation s status as a REIT and to ensure compliance with the Ownership Limit.      b. Each Person who is a Beneficial Owner or Constructive Owner of shares of Equity Stock and each Person (including the stockholder of record) who is holding shares of Equity Stock for a Beneficial Owner or
Constructive Owner shall provide to the Corporation a written statement or affidavit stating such information as the Corporation may request in order to determine the Corporation s status as a REIT and to ensure compliance with the Ownership
Limit.      7. Exception. The Ownership Limit shall not apply to the acquisition of shares of Equity Stock by an underwriter that participates in a public
offering of such shares for a period of 90 days following the purchase by such underwriter of such shares provided that the restrictions contained in Section (A)(2) of Article VIII hereof will not be violated following the distribution by such
underwriter of such shares. In addition, the Board of Directors, upon receipt of a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or an opinion of counsel in each case to the effect that the restrictions contained in Section (A)(2)(B), Section (A)(2)(C),
and/or Section (A)(2)(D) of Article VIII hereof will not be violated, may exempt a Person from the Ownership Limit provided that (i) the Board of Directors obtains such representations and undertakings from such Person as are reasonably
necessary to ascertain that no  
       
   -19-   

individual s Beneficial Ownership or Constructive Ownership of shares of Equity Stock will violate the Ownership Limit and (ii) such Person agrees
in writing that any violation or attempted violation will result in such transfer to the Trust of shares of Equity Stock pursuant to Section (A)(3) of Article VIII hereof.      B. Shares-in-Trust.      1. Trust. Any shares
of Equity Stock transferred to a Trust and designated Shares-in-Trust pursuant to Section (A)(3) of Article VIII hereof shall be held for the exclusive benefit of the Beneficiary. The Corporation shall name a Beneficiary for each Trust within five
days after discovery of the existence thereof. Any transfer to a Trust, and subsequent designation of shares of Equity Stock as Shares-in-Trust, pursuant to Section (A)(3) of Article VIII hereof shall be effective as of the close of business on the
business day prior to the date of the Transfer or Non-Transfer Event that results in the transfer to the Trust. Shares-in-Trust shall remain issued and outstanding shares of Equity Stock of the Corporation and shall be entitled to the same rights
and privileges on identical terms and conditions as are all other issued and outstanding shares of Equity Stock of the same class and series. When transferred to a Permitted Transferee in accordance with the provisions of Section (B)(5) of Article
VIII hereof, such Shares-in-Trust shall cease to be designated as Shares-in-Trust.      2. Dividend Rights. The Trust, as record holder of Shares-in-Trust,
shall be entitled to receive all dividends and distributions as may be declared by the Board of Directors on such shares of Equity Stock and shall hold such dividends or distributions in trust for the benefit of the Beneficiary. The Prohibited Owner
with respect to Shares-in-Trust shall repay to  
       
   -20-   

the Trust the amount of any dividends or distributions received by it that (i) are attributable to any shares of Equity Stock designated Shares-in-Trust
and (ii) the record date of which was on or after the date that such shares became Shares-in-Trust. The Corporation shall take all measures that it determines reasonably necessary to recover the amount of any such dividend or distribution paid
to a Prohibited Owner, including, if necessary, withholding any portion of future dividends or distributions payable on shares of Equity Stock Beneficially Owned or Constructively Owned by the Person who, but for the provisions of Section (A)(3) of
Article VIII hereof, would Constructively Own or Beneficially Own the Shares-in-Trust; and, as soon as reasonably practicable following the Corporation s receipt or withholding thereof, shall pay over to the Trust for the benefit of the
Beneficiary the dividends so received or withheld, as the case may be.      3. Rights Upon Liquidation. In the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of, or any distribution of the assets of, the Corporation, each holder of Shares-in-Trust shall be entitled to receive, ratably with each other holder of shares of Equity Stock of the same class or series, that
portion of the assets of the Corporation which is available for distribution to the holders of such class and series of shares of Equity Stock. The Trust shall distribute to the Prohibited Owner the amounts received upon such liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up, or distribution; provided, however, that the Prohibited Owner shall not be entitled to receive amounts pursuant to this Section (B)(3) of Article VIII in excess of, in the case of a purported Transfer in which the
Prohibited Owner gave value for shares of Equity Stock and which Transfer resulted in the transfer of the shares to the Trust, the price per share, if any, such Prohibited Owner paid for the shares of Equity Stock and, in the case of a Non-Transfer
Event or Transfer in which the Prohibited Owner did not give value for such shares (e.g., if the shares were received through a gift or devise) and which Non-Transfer Event or Transfer, as the case may be, resulted in the transfer of shares to the
Trust, the price per  
       
   -21-   

share equal to the Market Price on the date of such Non-Transfer Event or Transfer. Any remaining amount in such Trust shall be distributed to the
Beneficiary.      4. Voting Rights. The Trustee shall be entitled to vote all Shares-in-Trust. Any vote by a Prohibited Owner as a holder of shares of Equity
Stock prior to the discovery by the Corporation that the shares of Equity Stock are Shares-in-Trust shall, subject to applicable law, be rescinded and shall be void ab initio with respect to such Shares-in-Trust and the Prohibited Owner shall be
deemed to have given, as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of the purported Transfer or Non-Transfer Event that results in the transfer to the Trust of shares of Equity Stock under Section (A)(3) of Article VIII hereof,
an irrevocable proxy to the Trustee to vote the Shares-in-Trust in the manner in which the Trustee, in its sole and absolute discretion, desires.      5.
Designation of Permitted Transferee. The Trustee shall have the exclusive and absolute right to designate a Permitted Transferee of any and all Shares-in-Trust. In an orderly fashion so as not to materially adversely affect the Market Price of the
Shares-in-Trust, the Trustee shall designate any Person as Permitted Transferee, provided, however, that (i) the Permitted Transferee so designated purchases for valuable consideration (whether in a public or private sale) the Shares-in-Trust
and (ii) the Permitted Transferee so designated may acquire such Shares-in-Trust without such acquisition resulting in a transfer to a Trust and the redesignation of such shares of Equity Stock so acquired as Shares-in-Trust under Section
(A)(3) of Article VIII hereof. Upon the designation by the Trustee of a Permitted Transferee in accordance with the provisions of this Section (B)(5) of Article VIII, the Trustee shall (i) cause to be transferred to the Permitted Transferee
that number of Shares-in-Trust  
       
   -22-   

acquired by the Permitted Transferee, (ii) cause to be recorded on the books of the Corporation that the Permitted Transferee is the holder of record of
such number of shares of Equity Stock, (iii) cause the Shares-in-Trust to be canceled, and (iv) distribute to the Beneficiary any and all amounts held with respect to the Shares-in-Trust after making that payment to the Prohibited Owner
pursuant to Section (B)(6) of Article VIII hereof.      6. Compensation to Record Holder of Shares of Equity Stock that Become Shares-in-Trust. Any Prohibited
Owner shall be entitled (following discovery of the Shares-in-Trust and subsequent designation of the Permitted Transferee in accordance with Section (B)(5) of Article VIII hereof or following the acceptance of the offer to purchase such shares in
accordance with Section (B)(7) of Article VIII hereof) to receive from the Trustee following the sale or other disposition of such Shares-in-Trust the lesser of (i) in the case of (a) a purported Transfer in which the Prohibited Owner gave
value for shares of Equity Stock and which Transfer resulted in the transfer of the shares to the Trust, the price per share, if any, such Prohibited Owner paid for the shares of Equity Stock, or (b) a Non-Transfer Event or Transfer in which
the Prohibited Owner did not give value for such shares (e.g., if the shares were received through a gift or devise) and which Non-Transfer Event or Transfer, as the case may be, resulted in the transfer of shares to the Trust, the price per share
equal to the Market Price on the date of such Non-Transfer Event or Transfer, and (ii) the price per share received by the Trustee from the sale or other disposition of such Shares-in-Trust in accordance with Section (B)(5) of Article VIII
hereof. Any amounts received by the Trustee in respect of such Shares-in-Trust and in excess of such amounts to be paid the Prohibited Owner pursuant to this Section (B)(6) shall be distributed to the Beneficiary in accordance with the  
       
   -23-   

provisions of Section (B)(5) of Article VIII hereof. Each Beneficiary and Prohibited Owner waive any and all claims that they may have against the Trustee
and the Trust arising out of the disposition of Shares-in-Trust, except for claims arising out of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of, or any failure to make payments in accordance with this Section (B), by such Trustee or the Corporation.
     7. Purchase Right in Shares-in-Trust. Shares-in-Trust shall be deemed to have been offered for sale to the Corporation, or its designee, at a price per
share equal to the lesser of (i) the price per share in the transaction that created such Shares-in-Trust (or, in the case of devise, gift or Non-Transfer Event, the Market Price at the time of such devise, gift or Non-Transfer Event) and
(ii) the Market Price on the date the Corporation, or its designee, accepts such offer. The Corporation shall have the right to accept such offer for a period of ninety days after the later of (i) the date of the Non-Transfer Event or
purported Transfer which resulted in such Shares-in-Trust and (ii) the date the Corporation determines in good faith that a Transfer or Non-Transfer Event resulting in Shares-in-Trust has occurred, if the Corporation does not receive a notice
of such Transfer or Non-Transfer Event pursuant to Section (A)(5) of Article VIII hereof.      C. Remedies Not Limited. Nothing contained in this Article VIII
shall limit the authority of the Corporation to take such other action as it deems necessary or advisable to protect the Corporation and the interests of its shareholders by preservation of the Corporation s status as a REIT and to ensure
compliance with the Ownership Limit.      D. Ambiguity. In the case of an ambiguity in the application of any of the provisions of this Article VIII, including
any definition contained in  
       
   -24-   

Section (A)(1) of Article VIII hereof, the Board of Directors shall have the power to determine the application of the provisions of this Article VIII with
respect to any situation based on the facts known to it.      E. Legend. Each certificate for shares of Equity Stock shall bear the following legend:
      The shares of [Common or Preferred] Stock represented by this certificate are subject to restrictions on transfer for the purpose of the
Corporation s maintenance of its status as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). No Person may (i) Beneficially Own or Constructively Own shares of Common Stock in excess
of 9.9% of the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock, (ii) Beneficially Own or Constructively Own shares of any class or series of Preferred Stock in excess of 9.9% of the number of outstanding shares of such class or series of Preferred
Stock, (iii) beneficially own shares of Equity Stock that would result in the shares of Equity Stock being beneficially owned by fewer than 100 Persons (determined without reference to any rules of attribution), (iv) Beneficially Own
shares of Equity Stock that would result in the Corporation being  closely held  under Section 856(h) of the Code, or (v) Constructively Own shares of Equity Stock that would cause the Corporation to Constructively Own 10% or
more of the ownership interests in a tenant of the Corporation s real property, within the meaning of Section 856(d)(2)(B) of the Code. Any Person who attempts to Beneficially Own or Constructively Own shares of Equity Stock in excess of
the above limitations must immediately notify the Corporation in writing. If the restrictions above are violated, the shares of Equity Stock represented hereby will be transferred automatically and by operation of law to a Trust and shall be
designated Shares-in-Trust. All capitalized terms in this legend have the meanings defined in the Corporation s  
       
   -25-   

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as the same may be further amended from time to time, a copy of which, including the restrictions on
transfer, will be sent without charge to each shareholder who so requests.       F. Severability. If any provision of this Article VIII or any application
of any such provision is determined to be invalid by any federal or state court having jurisdiction over the issues, the validity of the remaining provisions shall not be affected and other applications of such provision shall be affected only to
the extent necessary to comply with the determination of such court.      Dated: October 26, 1999         
   -26-   

ARTICLES OF AMENDMENT      TO THE      SECOND AMENDED AND      RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION      OF      SUPERTEL HOSPITALITY, INC.      DESIGNATING THE      SERIES A CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK      The
undersigned corporation pursuant to Title 13.1, Chapter 9, Article 11 of the Code of Virginia, hereby executes the following Articles of Amendment and sets forth:       

1.  
  The name of the corporation (which is hereinafter referred to as the  Corporation ) is Supertel Hospitality, Inc.         

2.  
  The amendment adds Article X (attached hereto) to the Corporation s Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and thereby creates a series of Preferred Stock (the
 Series A Convertible Preferred Stock ), states the designation and number of shares in the series and fixes the preferences, limitations and relative rights thereof.         

3.  
  Pursuant to a written consent in lieu of a special meeting, the Board of Directors of the Corporation duly adopted the amendment to the Corporation s Second Amended and
Restated Articles of Incorporation on December 20, 2005. Shareholder approval is not required.         

Dated: December 20, 2005  
     
  Supertel Hospitality, Inc.   

By:  
     
    /s/ PAUL J. SCHULTE    

Name:  
     
  Paul J. Schulte   

Title:  
     
  President and Chief Executive Officer   

X.       

A.  
  Terms of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock.         

1.  
  Designation and Number. A series of Preferred Stock, designated the  Series A Convertible Preferred Stock , is hereby established. The number of authorized shares of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be 2,500,000.         

2.  
  Maturity. The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption.         

3.  
  Rank. The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock will, with respect to dividend rights and rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, rank (a) prior
or senior to the Common Stock issued by the Corporation; (b) prior or senior to all classes or series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation, the terms of which specifically provide that such shares rank junior to the Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock with respect to dividend rights or rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (c) on a parity with all classes or series of shares of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation, the terms of which
specifically provide that such shares rank on a parity with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to dividend rights or rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (the  Parity Shares ) and
(d) junior to all existing and future indebtedness of the Corporation.         

4.  
  Dividends.        (a) Holders of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when and as authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or a duly authorized committee thereof, and declared by the Corporation out of funds of the Corporation legally available
for payment, preferential cumulative cash dividends at the rate of 8% per annum of the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) per share (equivalent to a fixed annual amount of $.80 per share). Such dividends shall be cumulative from the date
of original issue and shall be payable in arrears on the last day of each month (or, if not a Business Day (as defined below), the next succeeding Business Day, each a  Dividend Payment Date ) for the period ending on such Dividend Payment
Date, commencing on the date of issue.  Business Day  shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in the City of New York are authorized or required to close. The first dividend will be paid on
January 31, 2006 with respect to the period beginning on the date of issue and ending on January 31, 2006. Any dividend payable on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for any partial dividend period will be computed on the basis of
twelve 30-day months and a 360-day year. Dividends will be payable in arrears to holders of record as they appear on the share records of the Corporation at the close of business on the applicable record date, which shall be the first day of the
calendar month in which the Dividend Payment Date occurs or such other date designated by the Board of Directors of the Corporation for the payment of dividends that is not more than 30 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date
(each, a  Dividend Record Date ).      (b) No dividends on Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be authorized by
the Board of Directors of the Corporation or declared or paid or set apart for payment by the Corporation at such time as the terms and provisions of any agreement of the Corporation, including any agreement relating to its indebtedness, prohibits
such declaration, payment or setting apart for payment or provides that such declaration, payment or setting apart for payment would constitute a breach thereof or a default thereunder, or if such declaration or payment shall be restricted or
prohibited by law.   

(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock
will accrue whether or not the Corporation has earnings, whether or not there are funds legally available for the payment of such dividends, whether or not such dividends are declared and whether or not such dividends are prohibited by agreement.
Accrued but unpaid dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock will accumulate and earn additional dividends at 8%, compounded monthly. Except as set forth in the next sentence, no dividends will be declared or paid or set apart for
payment on any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (other than a dividend payable in capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series
A Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon liquidation) for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof is set apart for such
payment on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods and the then current dividend period. When dividends are not paid in full (or a sum sufficient for such full payment is not so set apart) upon the Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock and the shares of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any other
class or series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and such other
class or series of Preferred Stock, shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and such other class or series of Preferred Stock (which shall not include any
accrual in respect of unpaid dividends for prior dividend periods if such Preferred Stock does not have a cumulative dividend) bear to each other.      (d) Except as provided in the immediately preceding paragraph, unless full cumulative dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum
sufficient for the payment thereof is set apart for payment for all past dividend periods and the then current dividend period, no dividends (other than a dividend payable in capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon liquidation) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment nor shall any other distribution be declared or made upon the Common Stock, or any other class or series of capital stock of the
Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall the Common Stock, or any other class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a
parity with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such
shares) by the Corporation (except by conversion into or exchange for any other class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon liquidation or redemption for the
purpose of preserving the Corporation s qualification as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code )). Holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any
dividend, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock as provided above. Any dividend payment made on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall first be credited
against the earliest accrued but unpaid dividend due with respect to such shares which remains payable.   

(e) If, for any taxable year, the Corporation elects to designate as  capital gain
dividends  (as defined in Section 857 of the Code) any portion (the  Capital Gains Amount ) of the dividends (as determined for federal income tax purposes) paid or made available for the year to holders of all classes of shares
(the  Total Dividends ), then the portion of the Capital Gains Amount that shall be allocable to the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be the amount that the total dividends (as determined for federal income tax
purposes) paid or made available to the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for the year bears to the Total Dividends. The Corporation may elect to retain and pay income tax on its net long-term capital gains. In such a case, the
holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock would include in income their appropriate share of the Corporation s undistributed long-term capital gains, as designated by the Corporation.       

5.  
  Liquidation Preference.        (a) Upon any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Corporation legally available for
distribution to its shareholders a liquidation preference of $10.00 per share (the  Liquidation Preference ) in cash or property at its fair market value as determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, plus an amount equal to
any accrued and unpaid dividends to the date of payment, but without interest, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of the Corporation s Common Stock or any other class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that ranks
junior to the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock as to liquidation rights. The Corporation will promptly provide to the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock written notice of any event triggering the right to receive such
Liquidation Preference. After payment of the full amount of the Liquidation Preference, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends to which they are entitled, the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock will have no right or claim to any of
the remaining assets of the Corporation. The consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation, trust or entity or of any other corporation, trust or entity with or into the Corporation, the sale, lease or conveyance of
all or substantially all of the property or business of the Corporation or a statutory share exchange, shall not be deemed to constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, unless a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation is effected in connection with, or as a step in a series of transactions by which, a consolidation or merger of the Corporation is effected.      In determining whether a distribution (other than upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation) by dividend, redemption or other acquisition
of shares of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise is permitted under Virginia law, no effect shall be given to amounts that would be needed, if the Corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the
preferential rights upon distribution of holders of shares of capital stock of the Corporation whose preferential rights upon distribution are superior to those receiving the distribution.      (b) If upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof,
distributable among the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be insufficient to pay in full the above described preferential amount and liquidating payments on any other class or series of Parity  

Shares, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any such other Parity
Shares ratably in the same proportion as the respective amounts that would be payable on such Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any such other Parity Shares if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full.      (c) Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any Parity Shares, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any Parity
Shares shall not be entitled to share therein.       

6.  
  Redemption.        (a) The Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock is not redeemable prior to January 1, 2009 subject, however, to the provisions of Article IX hereof. In the event a Conversion Cancellation Notice (as defined below) is issued by the Corporation, on and after January 1,
2009, the Corporation may, at its option, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days  written notice, redeem the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, for cash at a redemption price equal
to the Liquidation Preference per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption (the  Redemption Date ), without interest. Otherwise, the Corporation may, at its option, upon not less than 30 nor
more than 60 days  written notice, redeem the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, for cash at a redemption price equal to (i) 108% of the Liquidation Preference per share on or after
January 1, 2009, (ii) 104% of the Liquidation Preference per share on or after January 1, 2010 and (iii) the Liquidation Preference per share on or after January 1, 2011, plus, in each case, all accrued and unpaid dividends
thereon to the Redemption Date, without interest. No Series A Convertible Preferred Stock may be redeemed except with assets legally available for the payment of the redemption price.      Holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall surrender such Series A Convertible Preferred Stock at the place
designated in such notice and shall be entitled to the redemption price and any accrued and unpaid dividends payable upon such redemption following such surrender. If notice of redemption of any of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has been
given and if the funds necessary for such redemption have been set aside, separate and apart from other funds, by the Corporation in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of any Series A Convertible Preferred Stock so called for redemption,
then from and after the Redemption Date dividends will cease to accrue on such Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, such Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights of the holders of such shares will
terminate, except the right to receive the redemption price. If less than all of the outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is to be redeemed, the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected pro rata (as nearly as
may be practicable without creating fractional shares) or by any other equitable method determined by the Corporation.      (b)
Unless full cumulative dividends on all Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for payment for all past dividend periods and
the then current dividend period, no Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be redeemed unless all outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is simultaneously  

redeemed and the Corporation shall not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (except by exchange
for any other class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon liquidation); provided, however, that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase by the
Corporation of any Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in accordance with Article IX hereof, or the purchase or acquisition of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all
outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. So long as no dividends are in arrears, the Corporation shall be entitled at any time and from time to time to repurchase any Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in open-market transactions duly
authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation and effected in compliance with applicable laws.      (c) Notice of
redemption of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks commencing not less than 30 nor more
than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. A similar notice shall be mailed by the Corporation by first class mail, postage prepaid, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, addressed to each holder of record of the
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed at such holder s address as the same appears on the share records of the Corporation. No failure to give such notice or any defect therein or in the mailing thereof shall affect the validity
of the proceedings for the redemption of any Series A Convertible Preferred Stock except as to the holder to whom notice was defective or not given. Each notice shall state: (i) the Redemption Date; (ii) the redemption price;
(iii) the number of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed; and (iv) the place or places where the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.      (d) Immediately prior to any redemption of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall pay, in cash, any accumulated and
unpaid dividends through the Redemption Date, unless a Redemption Date falls after a Dividend Record Date and prior to the corresponding Dividend Payment Date, in which case each holder of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock at the close of
business on such Dividend Record Date shall be entitled to the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding Dividend Payment Date notwithstanding the redemption of such shares before such Dividend Payment Date.      (e) The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption
provisions, except as provided under Article IX hereof.      (f) Subject to applicable law and the limitation on purchases when
dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are in arrears, the Corporation may, at any time and from time to time, purchase any Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in the open market, by tender or by private agreement.      (g) All Series A Convertible Preferred Stock redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall
be retired and reclassified as authorized but unissued Preferred Stock, without designation as to class or series, and may thereafter be reissued as any class or series of Preferred Stock in accordance with the applicable provisions of these
Articles of Incorporation.   

7.  
  Voting Rights.        (a) Holders of the Series
A Convertible Preferred Stock will not have any voting rights, except as set forth below.      (b) Whenever dividends on any
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for six consecutive months or nine months, whether or not consecutive, in any twelve month period (a  Preferred Dividend Default ), the number of directors then constituting the
Board of Directors of the Corporation shall increase by two (if not already increased by reason of a similar arrearage with respect to any Parity Preferred (as hereinafter defined)). The holders of such Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (voting
separately as a class with all other classes or series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable
( Parity Preferred )) will be entitled to vote separately as a class, in order to fill the vacancies thereby created, for the election of a total of two additional directors of the Corporation (the  Preferred Stock Directors ) at
a special meeting called by the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock or the holders of record of at least 20% of any series of Parity Preferred so in arrears (unless such request is received less than 90 days
before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the shareholders) or at the next annual meeting of shareholders, and at each subsequent annual meeting at which a Preferred Stock Director is to be elected until up to twelve months
after all dividends accumulated on such Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Parity Preferred for the past dividend periods and the dividend for the then current dividend period shall have been fully paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the
payment thereof set aside for payment. In the event the directors of the Corporation are divided into classes, each such vacancy shall be apportioned among the classes of directors to prevent stacking in any one class and to ensure that the number
of directors in each of the classes of directors are as equal as possible. Within twelve months after all accumulated dividends and the dividend for the then current dividend period on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall have been paid in
full or declared and set aside for payment in full, the holders thereof shall be divested of the foregoing voting rights (subject to revesting in the event of each and every Preferred Dividend Default) and, if all accumulated dividends and the
dividend for the then current dividend period have been paid in full or set aside for payment in full on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and all series of Parity Preferred upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable, the term of office of each Preferred Stock Director so elected shall terminate within twelve months thereafter and the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall decrease accordingly. Any
Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time with or without cause by, and shall not be removed otherwise than by the vote of, the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock when they have the
voting rights described above (voting separately as a class with all series of Parity Preferred upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable). So long as a Preferred Dividend Default shall continue, any vacancy in the office
of a Preferred Stock Director may be filled by written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock when they have the voting rights described above (voting separately as a class with all series of Parity Preferred upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be
entitled to one vote per director on any matter.   

(c) So long as any shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the
Corporation will not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock entitled to cast a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, given in
person or by proxy, either in writing or at a meeting (voting separately as a class):      (i) amend, alter or repeal the
provisions of these Articles of Incorporation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise (an  Event ), so as to materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Series A Convertible Preferred
Stock or the holders thereof; or      (ii) authorize, create or issue, or increase the authorized or issued amount of, any class
or series of capital stock or rights to subscribe to or acquire any class or series of capital stock or any class or series of capital stock convertible into any class or series of capital stock, in each case ranking senior to the Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or reclassify any shares of capital stock into any such shares;      provided, however, that with respect to the occurrence of any Event set forth above, so long as the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (or any
equivalent class or series of stock or shares issued by the surviving corporation, trust or other entity in any merger or consolidation to which the Corporation became a party) remains outstanding with the terms thereof materially unchanged, the
occurrence of any such Event shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; and provided, further, that (i) any increase in the
amount of the authorized Preferred Stock or the creation or issuance of any other class or series of Preferred Stock, (ii) any increase in the amount of the authorized shares of such series, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to
the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up or (iii) any merger or consolidation in which the Corporation is not the surviving entity
if, as a result of the merger or consolidation, the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock receive cash in the amount of the Liquidation Preference in exchange for each of their shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, shall not be
deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.      (d) With respect to the
exercise of the above described voting rights, each share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall have one vote per share, except that when any other class or series of capital stock shall have the right to vote with the Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock as a single class, then the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and such other class or series of capital stock shall each have one vote per $10.00 of liquidation preference.      (e) The foregoing voting provisions will not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would
otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.

(f) Except as expressly stated in this Article X, the Series A Convertible Preferred
Stock shall not have any relative, participating, optional or other special voting rights and powers, and the consent of the holders thereof shall not be required for the taking of any corporate action, including but not limited to, any merger or
consolidation involving the Corporation or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, irrespective of the effect that such merger, consolidation or sale may have upon the rights, preferences or voting power of the holders
of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock.       

8.  
  Conversion.        (a) Subject to and upon
compliance with the provisions of this subsection 8, a holder of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall have the right, at the holder s option, at any time to convert such shares, in whole or in part, into the number of authorized but
previously unissued shares of Common Stock obtained by dividing the aggregate Liquidation Preference of such shares by $5.66, the conversion price per share of Common Stock at which the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible into shares
of Common Stock, as such price may be adjusted pursuant to paragraph (d) of this subsection 8 (the  Conversion Price ) (as in effect at the time and on the date provided for in the last paragraph of paragraph (b) of this
subsection 8) by delivering such shares to be converted, such delivery to be made in the manner provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection 8; provided, however, that the right to convert shares called for redemption pursuant to subsection 6
of this Section A shall terminate at the close of business on the Business Day prior to the Redemption Date, unless the Corporation shall default in making payment of any amounts payable upon such redemption under subsection 6 of this Section A.
     The conversion rights of the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are subject to cancellation by the
Corporation on or after December 31, 2008 if, for at least 20 Trading Days (as defined below) within any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days, the Current Market Price (as defined below) of the Common Stock of the Corporation exceeds the
Conversion Price by more than 30% (a  Conversion Cancellation Event ). Following the occurrence of a Conversion Cancellation Event, the Corporation may, at its option, provide notice to the respective holders of record of the Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock at their respective addresses as they appear on the share transfer records of the Corporation, via first class mail, specifying a date upon which each such holder s conversion rights will be deemed cancelled (a
 Conversion Cancellation Notice ). The cancellation date specified in the Conversion Cancellation Notice will be more than 30 days, but less than 60 days, after the Conversion Cancellation Notice is mailed. The right to convert Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock for which any Conversion Cancellation Notice has been issued will terminate at the close of business on the Business Day prior to the cancellation date specified in the Conversion Cancellation Notice.  Trading
Day  shall mean any day on which the securities in question are traded on the NYSE, or if such securities are not listed or admitted for trading on the NYSE, on the principal national securities exchange on which such securities are listed or
admitted, or if not listed or admitted for trading on any national securities exchange, on the Nasdaq National Market, or if such securities are not quoted on the Nasdaq National Market, in the applicable securities market in which the securities
are traded.  Current Market Price  of the Common Stock of the Corporation for any day shall mean the last reported sales price, regular way, on such day or, if no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and
asked prices on such day, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) or, if such security is not listed or admitted for trading on the NYSE, on the principal national securities exchange on which such
security is listed or admitted for trading or, if   

not listed or admitted for trading on any national securities exchange, on the Nasdaq National Market or, if such security is not quoted on the Nasdaq
National Market, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by Nasdaq or, if bid and asked prices for such security on such day shall not have been reported through Nasdaq, the average of
the bid and asked prices on such day as furnished by any NYSE member firm regularly making a market in such security and selected for such purpose by the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation or the Board of Directors of the Corporation or, if
such security is not so listed or quoted, as determined in good faith at the sole discretion of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation or the Board of Directors of the Corporation, which determination shall be final, conclusive and binding.
     (b) In order to exercise the conversion right, the holder of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted shall
deliver the certificate evidencing such shares, duly endorsed or assigned to the Corporation or in blank, to the office of the transfer agent of the Corporation, accompanied by written notice to the Corporation that the holder thereof elects to
convert such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Unless the shares issuable on conversion are to be issued in the same name as the name in which such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are registered, each share surrendered
for conversion shall be accompanied by instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Corporation, duly executed by the holder or such holder s duly authorized agent and an amount sufficient to pay any transfer or similar tax (or evidence
reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation demonstrating that such taxes have been paid).      Holders of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock exercising their conversion rights will not be entitled to, nor will the Conversion Price be adjusted for, any accumulated and unpaid dividends, whether or not in arrears, or for dividends on the Common Stock issued upon conversion.
Holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock at the close of business on a Dividend Record Date will be entitled to receive the dividend payable on such shares on the corresponding Dividend Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion of such
shares following such Dividend Record Date and prior to such Dividend Payment Date. However, Series A Convertible Preferred Stock surrendered for conversion during the period between the close of business on any Dividend Record Date and ending with
the opening of business on the corresponding Dividend Payment Date (except shares converted after the issuance of a notice of redemption with respect to a Redemption Date during such period or coinciding with such Dividend Payment Date, which will
be entitled to such dividend on the Dividend Payment Date) must be accompanied by payment of an amount equal to the dividend payable on such shares on such Dividend Payment Date. A holder of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock on a Dividend Record
Date who (or whose transferee) tenders any such shares for conversion into Common Stock on such Dividend Payment Date will receive the dividend payable by the Corporation on such Series A Convertible Preferred Stock on such date, and the converting
holder need not include payment of the amount of such dividend upon surrender of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for conversion.      As promptly as practicable after the surrender of certificates for Series A Convertible Preferred Stock as aforesaid, the Corporation shall issue and shall deliver at such office to such holder, or on his written
order, a certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of such shares in accordance with the provisions of this subsection 8, and any fractional interest in respect of a share of Common Stock
arising upon such conversion shall be settled as provided in paragraph (c) of this subsection 8. Each conversion shall be deemed to have been effected immediately prior to the  

close of business on the date on which the certificates for Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall have been surrendered and such notice (and if
applicable, payment of an amount equal to the dividend payable on such shares as described above) received by the Corporation as aforesaid, and the person or persons in whose name or names any certificate or certificates for Common Stock shall be
issuable upon such conversion shall be deemed to have become the holder or holders of record of the shares represented thereby at such time on such date, and such conversion shall be at the Conversion Price in effect at such time and on such date,
unless the share transfer books of the Corporation shall be closed on that date, in which event such person or persons shall be deemed to have become such holder or holders of record at the opening of business on the next succeeding day on which
such share transfer books are open, but such conversion shall be at the Conversion Price in effect on the date on which such certificates for Series A Convertible Preferred Stock have been surrendered and such notice received by the Corporation.
     (c) No fractional shares or scrip representing fractions of Common Stock shall be issued upon conversion of the Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock. Instead of any fractional interest in a share of Common Stock that would otherwise be deliverable upon the conversion of a share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall pay to the holder of such
share an amount in cash based upon the Current Market Price of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of conversion. If more than one share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be surrendered for conversion at one
time by the same holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock so surrendered.      (d) The Conversion Price shall be adjusted from time to time as follows:      (i) If the Corporation shall (A) make a payment of dividends or distributions to holders of any class or series of capital stock of
the Corporation in Common Stock, (B) subdivide its outstanding Common Stock into a greater number of shares, (C) combine its outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares or (D) issue any shares of capital stock by
reclassification of its Common Stock, the Conversion Price shall be adjusted so that the holder of any Series A Convertible Preferred Stock thereafter surrendered for conversion shall be entitled to receive the number of shares of Common Stock that
such holder would have owned or have been entitled to receive after the happening of any of the events described above had such shares been converted immediately prior to the record date in the case of a dividend or distribution or the effective
date in the case of a subdivision, combination or reclassification. An adjustment made pursuant to this paragraph (d)(i) shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day next following the record date (except as provided
in paragraph (h) of this subsection 8) in the case of a distribution and shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day next following the effective date in the case of a subdivision, combination or
reclassification. Such adjustment(s) shall be made successively whenever any of the events listed above shall occur.      (ii)
If the Corporation shall issue rights, options or warrants to all holders of Common Stock entitling them (for a period expiring within 45 days after the record date fixed for such issuance) to subscribe for or purchase Common Stock (or securities
convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock) at a price per share less than the Fair Market Value (as defined below)  

per share of Common Stock on the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such rights, options or warrants, then the Conversion
Price shall be adjusted to equal the price determined by multiplying (A) the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the opening of business on the Business Day next following the date fixed for such determination by (B) a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the sum of (I) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the close of business on the date fixed for such determination and (II) the number of shares of Common Stock that could be purchased at
the Current Market Price on the date fixed for such determination with the aggregate proceeds to the Corporation from the exercise of such rights, options or warrants, and the denominator of which shall be the sum of (x) the number of shares of
Common Stock outstanding on the close of business on the date fixed for such determination and (y) the number of additional shares of Common Stock offered, for subscription or purchase pursuant to such rights, options or warrants. Such
adjustment shall be made successively whenever any such rights, options or warrants are issued, and shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day next following the record date for any such rights, options or warrants
issued (except as provided in paragraph (h) of this subsection 8). In determining whether any rights, options or warrants entitle the holders of Common Stock to subscribe for or purchase Common Stock at less than the Fair Market Value, there
shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Corporation upon issuance and upon exercise of such rights, options or warrants, the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Chief Executive Officer of
the Corporation or the Board of Directors of the Corporation whose decision shall be final, conclusive and binding. Any adjustment(s) made pursuant to this paragraph (d)(ii) shall become effective immediately after the opening of business on the
Business Day next following such record date. Such adjustment(s) shall be made successively whenever any of the events listed above shall occur.  Fair Market Value  shall mean the number obtained, for the 30 Trading Days before, and ending
not later than, the earlier of the day in question and the day before the  ex date  with respect to any issuance or distribution requiring such computation, by dividing (a) the sum of the products for all sales of Common Stock during
such 30 Trading Day period of (i) the sales prices per share of Common Stock as reported on the consolidated transaction reporting system contemplated by Rule 11Aa3-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, times (ii) the
number of shares of Common Stock sold at such prices by (b) the total number of shares of Common Stock sold during such 30 Trading Day period. The term  ex date , when used with respect to any issuance or distribution, means the first
day on which the Common Stock trades regular way, without the right to receive such issuance or distribution, on the exchange or in the market, as the case may be, used to determine that day s Current Market Price. Appropriate adjustments shall
be made during any 30 Trading Day period in the event of any subdivision or combination of shares of Common Stock, whether by stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reverse stock split or otherwise, which occurs during such 30 Trading Day
period .      (iii) If the Corporation shall distribute to all holders of its Common Stock any shares of capital stock of the
Corporation (other than Common Stock) or evidence of its indebtedness or assets (including securities, but excluding cash distributions paid out of the total equity applicable to Common Stock, less the amount of stated capital attributable to Common
Stock, determined   

on the basis of the most recent annual or quarterly consolidated cost basis and current value basis and consolidated balance sheets of the Corporation and
its consolidated subsidiaries available at the time of the declaration of the distribution) or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any of its securities (excluding those rights and warrants issued to all holders of Common Stock entitling
them for a period expiring within 45 days after the record date referred to in paragraph (d)(ii) of this subsection 8 to subscribe for or purchase Common Stock, which rights and warrants are referred to in and treated under paragraph (d)(ii) of this
subsection 8) (any of the foregoing being hereinafter in this paragraph (d)(iii) called the  Securities ), then in each case the Conversion Price shall be adjusted so that it shall equal the price determined by multiplying (A) the
Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such distribution by (B) a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the Current Market Price per
share of Common Stock on the record date described in the immediately following paragraph less the then Fair Market Value of the shares of capital stock or assets or evidences of indebtedness so distributed or of such rights or warrants applicable
to one share of Common Stock, and the denominator of which shall be the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the record date described in the immediately following paragraph.      Such adjustment shall become effective immediately at the opening of business on the Business Day next following (except as provided in
paragraph (h) of this subsection 8) the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such distribution. For the purposes of this paragraph (d)(iii), the distribution of a Security which is distributed not only to the
holders of the Common Stock on the date fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to such distribution of such Security, but also is distributed with each share of Common Stock delivered to a person converting a share of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock after such determination date, shall not require an adjustment of the Conversion Price pursuant to this paragraph (d)(iii); provided that on the date, if any, on which a person converting a share of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock would no longer be entitled to receive such Security with a share of Common Stock (other than as a result of the termination of all such Securities), a distribution of such Securities shall be deemed to have occurred, and the
Conversion Price shall be adjusted as provided in this paragraph (d)(iii) (and such day shall be deemed to be  the date fixed for the determination of the shareholders entitled to receive such distribution  and  the record date 
within the meaning of the two preceding sentences). Such adjustment(s) shall be made successively whenever any of the events listed above shall occur.      (iv) No adjustment in the Conversion Price shall be required unless such adjustment would require a cumulative increase or decrease of at least 1% in such price; provided, however, that any adjustments that by reason
of this paragraph (d)(iv) are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment until made; and provided, further, that any adjustment shall be required and made in accordance with the provisions of
this subsection 8 (other than this paragraph (d)(iv)) not later than such time as may be required in order to preserve the tax-free nature of a distribution to the holders of Common Stock. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subsection 8,
the Corporation shall not  

be required to make any adjustment to the Conversion Price (A) upon the issuance of any Common Stock or options or rights to purchase Common Stock
pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant incentive or benefit plan or program of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries; (B) upon the issuance of any Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing
for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on shares of capital stock or indebtedness of the Corporation and the investment of additional optional amounts in Common Stock under any plan; (C) upon a change in the par value of the
Common Stock of the Corporation; or (D) for accumulated and unpaid dividends on shares of capital stock of the Corporation. All calculations under this subsection 8 shall be made to the nearest cent (with $.005 being rounded upward) or to the
nearest one-tenth of a share (with .05 of a share being rounded upward), as the case may be.      (e) If the Corporation shall
be a party to any transaction (including without limitation a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, tender offer for all or substantially all of the Common Stock, sale of all or substantially all of the Corporation s assets or
recapitalization of the Common Stock and excluding any transaction as to which paragraph (d)(i) of this subsection 8 applies (each of the foregoing being referred to herein as a  Transaction ), in each case as a result of which Common
Stock shall be converted into the right to receive shares, stock, securities or other property (including cash or any combination thereof), each share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock which is not converted into the right to receive shares,
stock, securities or other property in connection with such Transaction shall thereafter be convertible into the kind and amount of shares, stock, securities and other property receivable (including cash or any combination thereof) upon the
consummation of such Transaction by a holder of that number of shares of Common Stock or fraction thereof into which one share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock was convertible immediately prior to such Transaction, assuming such holder of
Common Stock (i) is not a person with which the Corporation consolidated or into which the Corporation merged or which merged into the Corporation or to which such sale or transfer was made, as the case may be (a  Constituent
Person ), or an affiliate of a Constituent Person and (ii) failed to exercise his or her rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of such stock, securities and other property (including cash) receivable upon consummation of
such Transaction (each a  Non-Electing Share ) (provided that if the kind or amount of shares, stock, securities and other property (including cash) receivable upon consummation of such Transaction by each Non-Electing Share is not the
same for each Non-Electing Share, then the kind and amount of shares, stock, securities and other property (including cash) receivable upon consummation of such Transaction for each Non-Electing Share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so
receivable per share by a plurality of the Non-Electing Shares). The Corporation shall not be a party to any Transaction unless the terms of such Transaction are consistent with the provisions of this paragraph (e), and it shall not consent or agree
to the occurrence of any Transaction until the Corporation has entered into an agreement with the successor or purchasing entity, as the case may be, for the benefit of the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, that will require such
successor or purchasing entity, as the case may be, to make provision in its certificate or articles of incorporation or other constituent documents to the end that the provisions of this paragraph (e) shall thereafter correspondingly be made
applicable as nearly as may reasonably be, in relation to any shares of stock or other securities or property thereafter deliverable upon conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. The provisions of this paragraph (e) shall
similarly apply to successive Transactions.   

(f) If:      (i) the Corporation shall declare a distribution on the Common Stock other than in cash out of the total equity applicable to Common
Stock, less the amount of stated capital attributable to Common Stock, determined on the basis of the most recent annual or quarterly consolidated cost basis and current value basis and consolidated balance sheets of the Corporation and its
consolidated subsidiaries available at the time of the declaration of the distribution; or      (ii) the Corporation shall
authorize the granting to the holders of the Common Stock of rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any shares of any class or any other rights or warrants; or      (iii) there shall be any reclassifications of the Common Stock (other than an event to which paragraph (d)(i) of this subsection 8
applied) or any consolidation or merger to which the Corporation is a party and for which approval of any shareholders of the Corporation is required, or a statutory share exchange involving the conversion or exchange of Common Stock into securities
or other property, or a self tender offer by the Corporation for all or substantially all of its outstanding Common Stock, or the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation as an entity and for which approval of
any shareholder of the Corporation is required; or      (iv) there shall occur the voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;      then the Corporation shall cause to be filed with the transfer agent of the Corporation and
shall cause to be mailed to the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock at their addresses as shown on the share records of the Corporation, as promptly as possible, but at least 15 days prior to the applicable date hereinafter
specified, a notice stating (A) the record date as of which the holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such distribution or grant of rights or warrants are to be determined, provided, however, that no such notification need be made
in respect of a record date for a distribution or grant of rights unless the corresponding adjustment in the Conversion Price would be an increase or decrease of at least 1%, or (B) the date on which such reclassification, consolidation,
merger, statutory share exchange, sale, transfer, liquidation, dissolution or winding up is expected to become effective, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock
for securities or other property, if any, deliverable upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger, statutory share exchange, sale, transfer, liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Failure to give or receive such notice or any defect therein
shall not affect the legality or validity of the proceedings described in subsection 8 of this Section A.      (g) Whenever the
Conversion Price is adjusted as herein provided, the Corporation shall promptly file with the transfer agent of the Corporation an officer s certificate setting forth the Conversion Price after such adjustment and setting forth a brief
statement of the facts requiring such adjustment, which certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the correctness of such adjustment absent manifest error. Promptly after delivery of such certificate, the Corporation shall prepare a notice of such
adjustment of the Conversion Price, setting forth the adjusted Conversion Price and the effective date on which such adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Price to the holder of each share of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock at such holder s last address as shown on the share records of the Corporation.   

(h) In any case in which paragraph (d) of subsection 8 of this Section A provides
that an adjustment shall become effective on the date next following the record date for an event, the Corporation may defer until the occurrence of such event (I) issuing to the holder of any Series A Convertible Preferred Stock converted
after such record date and before the occurrence of such event the additional Common Stock issuable upon such conversion by reason of the adjustment required by such event over and above the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion before giving
effect to such adjustment and (II) fractionalizing any Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and/or paying to such holder any amount of cash in lieu of any fraction pursuant to paragraph (c) of this subsection 8.      (i) There shall be no adjustment of the Conversion Price in case of the issuance of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation in a
reorganization, acquisition or other similar transaction except as specifically set forth in this subsection 8. If any action or transaction would require adjustment of the Conversion Price pursuant to more than one paragraph of this subsection 8,
only one adjustment shall be made, and such adjustment shall be the amount of adjustment that has the highest absolute value.      (j) If the Corporation shall take any action affecting the Common Stock, other than an action described in this subsection 8, that in the opinion of the Board of Directors of the Corporation would materially and adversely affect the
conversion rights of the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Conversion Price for the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock may be adjusted, to the extent permitted by law, in such manner, if any, and at such time, as the Board
of Directors of the Corporation, in its sole discretion, may determine to be equitable under the circumstances.      (k) The
Corporation covenants that it will at all times reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of the aggregate of its authorized but unissued Common Stock, for the purpose of effecting conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred
Stock, the full number of shares of Common Stock deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock not theretofore converted. For purposes of this paragraph (k), the number of shares of Common Stock that shall
be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single holder.      The Corporation covenants that any Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be validly
issued, fully paid and nonassessable. Before taking any action that would cause an adjustment reducing the Conversion Price below the then par value of the Common Stock deliverable upon conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the
Corporation will take any action that, in the opinion of its counsel, may be necessary in order that the Corporation may validly and legally issue fully paid and nonassessable Common Stock at such adjusted Conversion Price.      The Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to list the Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock, prior to such delivery, upon each national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.   

(l) The Corporation will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer
taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of Common Stock or other securities or property on conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not be required to pay any tax
that may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of Common Stock or other securities or property in a name other than that of the holder of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted, and no such issue
or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the reasonable satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid.
     In addition to the foregoing adjustments, the Corporation shall be entitled to make such reductions in the Conversion
Price, in addition to those required herein, as it in its discretion considers to be advisable in order that any share distributions, subdivisions of shares, reclassification or combination of shares, distribution of rights, options, warrants to
purchase shares or securities, or a distribution of other assets (other than cash distributions) will not be taxable or, if that is not possible, to diminish any income taxes that are otherwise payable because of such event.       

9.  
  Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. The rights of all holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the terms of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are subject to
the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation and the Bylaws of the Corporation, including, without limitation, the restrictions on transfer and ownership contained in Article IX of these Articles of Incorporation.         

B.  
  Exclusion of Other Rights.        Except as may otherwise be
required by law, the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, other than those specifically set forth in Article X of these Articles of
Incorporation (as such article may be amended from time to time) and in the other articles of these Articles of Incorporation. The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall have no preemptive or subscription rights.       

C.  
  Headings of Subdivisions.        The headings of the various
subdivisions hereof are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of any of the provisions hereof.       

D.  
  Severability of Provisions.        If any voting powers,
preferences or relative, participating, optional and other special rights of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof set forth in Article X of these Articles of Incorporation (as such article
may be amended from time to time) is invalid, unlawful or incapable of being enforced by reason of any rule of law or public policy, all other voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof set forth in Article X of these Articles of Incorporation (as so amended) which can be given effect without the invalid, unlawful or unenforceable voting powers,
preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock or qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof shall be given such effect. None of the voting powers, preferences or relative
participating, optional or other special rights of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof herein set forth shall be deemed dependent upon any other such voting powers, preferences or relative,
participating, optional or other special right of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof unless so expressed herein.   

</EX-3.1>

<EX-10.1>
 3
 dex101.htm
 THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT

Third Amended and Restated Agreement 

Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Supertel Limited Partnership       Exhibit 10.1        AMENDMENT NO. 1
       TO        THIRD AMENDED
AND RESTATED AGREEMENT        OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP        OF        HUMPHREY HOSPITALITY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP       The undersigned hereby certifies that the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Humphrey Hospitality Limited Partnership, dated
as of June 30, 2000 (the  Partnership Agreement ), is hereby further amended, effective May 26, 2005, by written consent of the General Partner, so that the first sentence of Section 2.02 of the Partnership Agreement is
revised in its entirety to read as follows:       The name of the Partnership shall be Supertel Limited Partnership. 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has set his hand effective this 26   th    day of May, 2005.        

GENERAL PARTNER:   

HUMPHREY HOSPITALITY REIT TRUST   

/s/ Paul J. Schulte    
 
  By:  
     
  Paul J. Schulte   
 
  Its:  
     
  President   

THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT      OF LIMITED PARTNERSHIP      OF      HUMPHREY HOSPITALITY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP      THIS THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT OF
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP OF HUMPHREY HOSPITALITY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of June 30, 2000, by and among Humphrey Hospitality REIT Trust, a Maryland real estate investment trust, as General Partner
(the  General Partner ), and James I. Humphrey, Jr., Humphrey Associates, Inc., a Maryland corporation, Humphrey Development, Inc., a Maryland corporation, Bethany H. Hooper, Randy P. Smith and Timothy P. Barila, as Majority Limited
Partners (the  Limited Partners ).      RECITALS      WHEREAS, Humphrey Hospitality Limited Partnership (the  Partnership ) was formed as a limited partnership under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia upon the filing of its Certificate of Limited
Partnership with the Virginia State Corporation Commission on August 29, 1994, and is governed by a Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership, dated September 2, 1997, as amended by a First Amendment dated June 1,
1998, a Second Amendment dated August 18, 1998, a Third Amendment dated December 31, 1998, a Fourth Amendment dated October 20, 1999, and a Fifth Amendment dated October 26, 1999 to make certain clarifying changes and to reflect
certain changes in ownership (collectively, the  Partnership Agreement ).      AGREEMENT      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, of the mutual promises contained herein and in the Partnership Agreement, and other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:      ARTICLE I      DEFINED TERMS      The following defined terms
used in this Agreement shall have the meanings specified below:       Act  means the Virginia Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act,
as it may be amended from time to time.   

Additional Limited Partner  means a Person admitted to this Partnership as a Limited Partner
pursuant to Section 4.02 hereof.       Administrative Expenses  means (i) all administrative and operating costs and
expenses incurred by the Partnership, (ii) those administrative costs and expenses of the General Partner and HHTI, including any salaries or other payments to directors, officers and/or employees of the General Partner and HHTI and any
accounting and legal expenses of the General Partner and HHTI, which expenses, the Partners have agreed, are expenses of the Partnership and not the General Partner and HHTI, and (iii) to the extent not included in clause (ii) above, REIT
Expenses; provided, however, that Administrative Expenses shall not include (A) any administrative costs and expenses incurred by the General Partner and HHTI that are attributable to Properties, or ownership interests in entities that own
Properties, that are owned by the General Partner or HHTI directly, including but not limited to HHTI s ownership interests in Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership and E P Financing Limited Partnership or (B) interest expenses
attributable to any loans incurred by HHTI, the proceeds of which are distributed to its shareholders or other equity holders pursuant to Section 4.03 hereof.       Affiliate  means, (i) any Person that, directly or indirectly, controls or is controlled by or is under common control with such Person, (ii) any other Person that owns, beneficially, directly or
indirectly, 5% or more of the outstanding capital stock, shares or equity interests of such Person, or (iii) any officer, director, employee, partner or trustee of such Person or any Person controlling, controlled by or under common control
with such Person (excluding trustees and persons serving in similar capacities who are not otherwise an Affiliate of such Person). For the purposes of this definition,  control  (including the correlative meanings of the terms
 controlled by  and  under common control with ), as used with respect to any Person, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person,
through the ownership of voting securities, partnership interests or other equity interests.       Agreed Value  means the fair
market value of a Partner s non-cash Capital Contribution as of the date hereof as agreed to by the Partners. For purposes of this Partnership Agreement, the Agreed Value of a Partner s non-cash Capital Contribution shall be equal to the
number of Partnership Units received by such Partner in exchange for a Property or an interest therein or in connection with the merger of a partnership of which such person is a partner with and into the Partnership, or for any other non-cash asset
so contributed, multiplied by the Public Offering Price or, if the contribution is made after the date hereof, the  Market Price  calculated in accordance with the second and third sentences of the definition of  Cash Amount , or
any agreed upon value as set forth in Exhibit A. The names and addresses of the Partners, number of Partnership Units issued to each Partner, and the Agreed Value of non-cash Capital Contributions is set forth on Exhibit A.       Agreement  means this Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership.         
   2   

Articles of Incorporation  means the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of HHTI
filed with the Secretary of Virginia State Corporation Commission, as amended or restated from time to time.       Capital Account 
has the meaning provided in Section 4.04 hereof.       Capital Contribution  means the total amount of capital initially
contributed or agreed to be contributed, as the context requires, to the Partnership by each Partner pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. Any reference to the Capital Contribution of a Partner shall include the Capital Contribution made by a
predecessor holder of the Partnership Interest of such Partner. The paid-in Capital Contribution shall mean the cash amount or the Agreed Value of other assets actually contributed by each Partner to the capital of the Partnership.       Capital Transaction  means the refinancing, sale, exchange, condemnation, recovery of a damage award or insurance proceeds (other than
business or rental interruption insurance proceeds not reinvested in the repair or reconstruction of Properties), or other disposition of any of Property (or the Partnership s interest therein).       Cash Amount  means an amount of cash per Partnership Unit equal to the value of the REIT Shares Amount on the date of receipt by HHTI of a
Notice of Redemption. Except as set forth in any agreement between the Partnership and a Partner dealing with the redemption of Partnership Units, the value of the REIT Shares Amount shall be based on the average of the daily market price of REIT
Shares for the ten consecutive trading days immediately preceding the date of such valuation. The market price for each such trading day shall be: (i) if the REIT Shares are listed or admitted to trading on any securities exchange or the
NASDAQ-National Market System, the sale price, regular way, on such day, or if no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, on such day, (ii) if the REIT Shares are not listed or admitted
to trading on any securities exchange or the NASDAQ-National Market System, the last reported sale price on such day or, if no sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day, as reported by a reliable
quotation source designated by HHTI and by a majority in interest of the Limited Partners; or (iii) if the REIT Shares are not listed or admitted to trading on any securities exchange or the NASDAQ-National Market System and no such last
reported sale price or closing bid and asked prices are available, the average of the reported high bid and low asked prices on such day, as reported by a reliable quotation source designated by HHTI and by a majority in interest of the Limited
Partners, or if there shall be no bid and asked prices on such day, the average of the high bid and low asked prices, as so reported, on the most recent day (not more than 10 days prior to the date in question) for which prices have been so
reported; provided that if there are no bid and asked prices reported during the ten days prior to the date in question, the value of the REIT Shares shall be determined by an appraiser mutually agreed upon by the General Partner and a majority in
interest of the Limited Partners (excluding the General Partner). In the event that the parties are unable to agree upon an appraiser, the General Partner and a majority in interest of the Limited Partners (excluding the General Partner) each shall
select an appraiser. Each such appraiser shall complete an appraisal of the fair market value of the REIT Shares within 20 days of the first attempt at evaluating the REIT Shares, and the fair market value of the REIT Shares  
       
   3   

shall be the average of the two appraisals; provided, however, that if the higher appraisal exceeds the lower appraisal by more than 20% of the lower
appraisal, the two appraisers shall select a third appraiser who shall complete an appraisal of the fair market value of the REIT Shares no later than 30 days after the first attempt at evaluating the REIT Shares. In such case, the fair market value
of the REIT Shares shall be the average of the two appraisals closest in value.       Certificate  means any instrument or document
that is required under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, or any other jurisdiction in which the Partnership conducts business, to be signed and sworn to by the Partners of the Partnership (either by themselves or pursuant to the
power-of-attorney granted to the General Partner in Section 8.02 hereof) and filed for recording in the appropriate public offices within the Commonwealth of Virginia or such other jurisdiction to perfect or maintain the Partnership as a
limited partnership, to effect the admission, withdrawal, or substitution of any Partner of the Partnership, or to protect the limited liability of the Limited Partners as limited partners under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia or such other
jurisdiction.       Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and as hereafter amended from time to time. Reference
to any particular provision of the Code shall mean that provision in the Code at the date hereof and any succeeding provision of the Code.       Commission  means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.       Common Units  shall mean all Partnership
Units other than Preferred Units.       Conversion Factor  means one (1), provided that in the event that the General Partner
(i) declares or pays a dividend on its outstanding REIT Shares in REIT Shares or makes a distribution to all holders of its outstanding REIT Shares in REIT Shares, (ii) subdivides its outstanding REIT Shares, or (iii) combines its
outstanding REIT Shares into a smaller number of REIT Shares, the Conversion Factor shall be adjusted by multiplying the Conversion Factor by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of REIT Shares issued and outstanding on the record
date for such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination (assuming for such purposes that such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination has occurred as of such time), and the denominator of which shall be the actual number of REIT
Shares (determined without the above assumption) issued and outstanding on such date. Any adjustment to the Conversion Factor shall become effective immediately after the effective date of such event retroactive to the record date, if any, for such
event.       Event of Bankruptcy  as to any Person means the filing of a petition for relief as to such Person as debtor or bankrupt
under the Bankruptcy Code of 1978 or similar provision of law of any jurisdiction (except if such petition is contested by such Person and has been dismissed within 90 days); insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person as finally determined by a court
proceeding; filing by such Person of a petition or application to accomplish the same or for the appointment of a receiver or a trustee for such Person or a substantial part of his assets; commencement of any proceedings relating to such Person as a
debtor under any other reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, adjustment of debt or liquidation law of any  
       
   4   

jurisdiction, whether now in existence or hereinafter in effect, either by such Person or by another, provided that if such proceeding is commenced by
another, such Person indicates his approval of such proceeding, consents thereto or acquiesces therein, or such proceeding is contested by such Person and has not been finally dismissed within 90 days.       Financial Statement  means an annual balance sheet, a statement of partners  capital as of the end of such year, as well as statements of
cash flow and income, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and accompanied by an independent auditor s report.       Funding Loan  means any loan advanced to the Partnership by the General Partner or HHTI for any proper Partnership purpose.       General Partner  means Humphrey Hospitality REIT Trust, a Maryland real estate investment trust, and any Person who becomes a substitute or additional General Partner as provided herein, and any of their successors as General
Partner.       General Partnership Interest  means a Partnership Interest held by the General Partner that is a general partnership
interest.       HHTI  means Humphrey Hospitality Trust, Inc., a Virginia corporation.       Indemnifying Party  means the party that would otherwise be required to provide indemnification or the indemnifying party for the purposes of
Section 8.06(e) hereof.       Indemnitee  means (i) any Person made a party to a proceeding by reason of his status as the
General Partner or a director or officer of the Partnership or the General Partner, and (ii) such other Persons (including Affiliates of the General Partner or the Partnership) as the General Partner may designate from time to time, in its sole
and absolute discretion.       Initial Hotels  means the following hotels: (1) Comfort Inn - Dahlgren, Virginia,
(2) Comfort Inn - Dublin, Virginia, (3) Comfort Inn - Elizabethton, Tennessee, (4) Comfort Inn - Farmville, Virginia, (5) Comfort Inn - Morgantown, West Virginia, (6) Comfort Inn - Princeton, West Virginia, (7) Comfort
Inn - Beacon Marina, Solomons, Maryland and (8) Rodeway Inn - Wytheville, Virginia.       Initial Offering  means the initial
offer and sale by HHTI and the purchase by the Underwriters (as defined in the Prospectus) of the common shares of HHTI for sale to the public.       Limited Partner  means any Person named as a Limited Partner on Exhibit A attached hereto, and any Person who becomes a Substitute or Additional Limited Partner, in such Person s capacity as a Limited Partner in the
Partnership.       Limited Partnership Interest  means the ownership interest of a Limited Partner in the Partnership at any
particular time, including the right of such Limited Partner to any and all benefits to which such Limited Partner may be entitled as provided in this Agreement and in the Act, together with the obligations of such Limited Partner to comply with all
the provisions of this Agreement and of such Act.         
   5   

Loss  has the meaning provided in Section 5.01(f) hereof.       New Securities  means any REIT Shares in addition to those offered in the Initial Offering and issued in connection with a redemption pursuant
to Section 8.05 hereof or any rights, options warrants or convertible or exchangeable securities containing the right to subscribe for or purchase REIT Shares.       Notice of Redemption  means the Notice of Exercise of Redemption Right substantially in the form attached as Exhibit B hereto.       Offer  means a purchase, tender or exchange offer.       Offering  means the initial offer
and sale by HHTI and the purchase by the Underwriters (as defined in the Prospectus) of the common shares of HHTI for sale to the public.       Original Limited Partners  means James I. Humphrey, Jr. and Humphrey Associates, Inc.       Partner  means any
General Partner or Limited Partner.       Partner Non-recourse Debt Minimum Gain  has the meaning set forth in Regulations
Section 1.704-2(i). A Partner s share of Partner Non-recourse Debt Minimum Gain shall be determined in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704- 2(i)(5).       Partnership Interest  means an ownership interest in the Partnership representing a Capital Contribution by either a Limited Partner or the General Partner and includes any and all benefits to which the
holder of such a Partnership Interest may be entitled as provided in this Agreement, together with all obligations of such Person to comply with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.       Partnership Minimum Gain  has the meaning set forth in Regulations Section 1.704-2(d). In accordance with Regulations
Section 1.704-2(d), the amount of Partnership Minimum Gain is determined by first computing, for each Partnership non-recourse liability, any gain the Partnership would realize if it disposed of the property subject to that liability for no
consideration other than full satisfaction of the liability, and then aggregating the separately computed gains. A Partner s share of Partnership Minimum Gain shall be determined in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(g)(1).
      Partnership Record Date  means the record date established by the General Partner for the distribution of Distributable Cash
pursuant to Section 5.02 hereof, which record date shall be the same as the record date established by HHTI for a distribution to its shareholders of some or all of its portion of such distribution.         
   6   

Partnership Unit  means a fractional, undivided share of the Partnership Interests of all
Partners issued hereunder. As of the date of this Agreement, there shall be considered to be the amount of Partnership Units outstanding, as set forth on Exhibit A. Partnership Units shall consist of both Common Units and Preferred Units.
      Percentage Interest  means the percentage ownership interest in the Partnership of each Partner, as determined by dividing the
Partnership Units owned by a Partner by the total number of Partnership Units then outstanding. The Percentage Interest of each Partner is as set forth opposite its respective name on Exhibit A.       Person  means any individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other entity.       Preferred Units  shall mean each special class of Preferred Units, the specific terms of which shall be attached hereto as exhibits found
under Exhibit C.       Profit  has the meaning provided in Section 5.01(f) hereof.       Property  means any hotel property or other investment in which the Partnership holds an ownership interest.       Prospectus  means the final prospectus delivered to purchasers of HHTI s common stock in the Offering.       Public Offering Price  shall mean the initial public offering price set forth in the Prospectus.       Redeeming Partner  has the meaning provided in Section 8.05(a) hereof.       Redemption Amount  means either the Cash Amount or the REIT Shares Amount, as selected by HHTI in its sole discretion pursuant to
Section 8.05(c) hereof.       Redemption Right  has the meaning provided in Section 8.05(a) hereof.       Redemption Shares  are the REIT Shares that may be issued in redemption of Partnership Units under Section 8.05(a) hereof.       Regulations  means the Federal Income Tax Regulations issued under the Code, as amended and as hereafter amended from time to time. Reference
to any particular provision of the Regulations shall mean that provision of the Regulations on the date hereof and any succeeding provision of the Regulations.       REIT  means a real estate investment trust under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code.         
   7   

REIT Expenses  means (i) costs and expenses relating to the formation and continuity of
existence of HHTI and any Subsidiaries thereof (which Subsidiaries shall, for purposes of this definition, be included within all references to HHTI in this definition), including taxes, fees and assessments associated therewith, any and all costs,
expenses or fees payable to any director, officer, or employee of HHTI, (ii) costs and expenses relating to the public offering and registration of securities by HHTI and all statements, reports, fees and expenses incidental thereto, including
underwriting discounts and selling commissions applicable to any such offering of securities, (iii) costs and expenses associated with the preparation and filing of any periodic reports by HHTI under federal, state or local laws or regulations,
including filings with the Commission, (iv) costs and expenses associated with compliance by HHTI with laws, rules and regulations promulgated by any regulatory body, including the Commission, and (v) all other operating or administrative
costs of HHTI incurred in the ordinary course of its business on behalf of the Partnership.       REIT Share  means a common share of
HHTI.       REIT Shares Amount  shall mean a number of REIT Shares equal to the product of the number of Partnership Common Units
offered for redemption by a Redeeming Partner, multiplied by the Conversion Factor; provided that in the event HHTI issues to all holders of REIT Shares rights, options, warrants or convertible or exchangeable securities entitling the shareholders
to subscribe for or purchase REIT Shares, or any other securities or property (collectively, the  rights ) , then the REIT Shares Amount shall also include such rights that a holder of that number of REIT Shares would be entitled to
receive.       Securities Act  means the Securities Act of 1933 as amended.       Service  means the Internal Revenue Service.       Shelf Registration  means a shelf registration statement under Rule 415 of the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission pursuant to Section 8.06 hereof.       Specified Redemption Date  means the first business day of the month that is at least 10 business days after the receipt by HHTI of the Notice
of Redemption.       Subsidiary  means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which a majority of
(i) the voting power of the voting equity securities or (ii) the outstanding equity interests is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person.       Subsidiary Partnership  means Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership, a Maryland limited Partnership.       Substitute Limited Partner  means any Person admitted to the Partnership as a Limited Partner pursuant to Section 9.03 hereof.         
   8   

Surviving General Partner  means the successor or surviving entity of a merger or
consolidation of the General Partner with another entity.       Transaction  means, with respect to HHTI any merger, consolidation,
or other combination with or into another Person or sale of all or substantially all of its assets or any reclassification or any recapitalization or change of outstanding REIT Shares (other than a change in par value or from par value to no par
value, or as a result of a subdivision or combination of REIT Shares).       Transfer  means collectively any offer, sale,
assignment, hypothecation, pledge or transfer, of a Limited Partnership Interest by a Limited Partner, in whole or in part, whether voluntarily or by operation of law or at judicial sale or otherwise.      ARTICLE II      PARTNERSHIP CONTINUATION AND
IDENTIFICATION      2.01 Continuation. The Partners hereby agree to continue the Partnership pursuant to the Act and upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.      2.02 Name, Office and Registered Agent. The name of the Partnership shall be Humphrey Hospitality
Limited Partnership. The specified office and place of business of the Partnership shall be 12301 Old Columbia Pike, Silver Spring, Maryland 20904 until September 12, 2000 and thereafter shall be 7170 Riverwood Drive, Columbia, Maryland 21045.
The General Partner may at any time change the location of such office, provided the General Partner gives notice to the Partners of any such change. The name and address of the Partnership s registered agent is Thurston R. Moore, Riverfront
Plaza - East Tower, 951 E. Byrd St., Richmond, Virginia 23219. The sole duty of the registered agent as such is to forward to the Partnership any notice that is served on him as registered agent.      2.03 Partners.      (a) The General Partner of
the Partnership is Humphrey Hospitality REIT Trust, a Maryland real estate investment trust. Its principal place of business shall be the same as that of the Partnership.      (b) The Limited Partners shall be those Persons identified as Limited Partners in Exhibit A hereto, as amended from time to time. The Limited Partners (other than the Original Limited Partners) hereby are admitted as
Limited Partners.         
   9   

2.04 Term and Dissolution.      (a) The term of the Partnership shall continue in full force and effect until December 31, 2050, except that the Partnership shall be dissolved upon the happening of any of the following events:      (i) The occurrence of an Event of Bankruptcy as to a General Partner or the dissolution, death or withdrawal of a General Partner unless the business of
the Partnership is continued pursuant to Section 7.03(b) hereof; provided that if a General Partner is on the date of such occurrence a partnership, the dissolution of such General Partner as a result of the dissolution, death, withdrawal,
removal or Event of Bankruptcy of a partner in such partnership shall not be an event of dissolution of the Partnership if the business of such General Partner is continued by the remaining partner or partners, either alone or with additional
partners, and such General Partner and such partners comply with any other applicable requirements of this Agreement;      (ii) The passage of
90 days after the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the Partnership; (provided that if the Partnership receives an installment obligation as consideration for such sale or other disposition, the Partnership shall
continue, unless sooner dissolved under the provisions of this Agreement, until such time as such note or notes are paid in full);      (iii)
The redemption of all Limited Partnership Interests (other than any of such interests held by the General Partner); or      (iv) The election
by the General Partner that the Partnership should be dissolved.      (b) Upon dissolution of the Partnership (unless the business of the
Partnership is continued pursuant to Section 7.03(b) hereof), the General Partner (or its trustee, receiver, successor or legal representative) shall amend or cancel the Certificate and liquidate the Partnership s assets and apply and
distribute the proceeds thereof in accordance with Section 5.06 hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the liquidating General Partner may either (i) defer liquidation of, or withhold from distribution for a reasonable time, any assets of
the Partnership (including those necessary to satisfy the Partnership s debts and obligations), or (ii) distribute the assets to the Partners in kind.      2.05 Filing of Certificate and Perfection of Limited Partnership. The General Partner shall execute, acknowledge, record and file at the expense of the Partnership, the Certificate and any and all amendments thereto
and all requisite fictitious name statements and notices in such places and jurisdictions as may be necessary to cause the Partnership to be treated as a limited partnership under, and otherwise to comply with, the laws of each state or other
jurisdiction in which the Partnership conducts business.         
   10   

ARTICLE III      BUSINESS OF THE PARTNERSHIP      The purpose and nature of the business to be conducted by the Partnership is
(i) to conduct any business that may be lawfully conducted by a limited partnership organized pursuant to the Act, provided, however, that such business shall be limited to and conducted in such a manner as to permit HHTI at all times to
qualify as a REIT, unless HHTI otherwise ceases to qualify as a REIT, (ii) to enter into any partnership, joint venture or other similar arrangement to engage in any of the foregoing or the ownership of interests in any entity engaged in any of
the foregoing and (iii) to do anything necessary or incidental to the foregoing. HHTI and the General Partner shall also be empowered to do any and all acts and things necessary or prudent to ensure that the Partnership will not be classified
as a  publicly traded partnership  for the purposes of Section 7704(a) of the Code.      ARTICLE IV      CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND ACCOUNTS      4.01
Capital Contributions. The General Partner shall contribute to the capital of the Partnership cash in an amount set forth opposite its name on Exhibit A, which shall represent the gross proceeds of the Offering. The Limited Partners shall contribute
to the capital of the Partnership cash and interests in one or more of the Initial Hotels as set forth opposite their names on Exhibit A. The Agreed Values of the Limited Partners  ownership interests in the Initial Hotels that are contributed
to the Partnership are as set forth opposite their names on Exhibit A.      4.02 Additional Capital Contributions and Issuances of Additional
Partnership Interests. Except as provided in this Section 4.02 or in Section 4.03, the Partners shall have no right or obligation to make any additional Capital Contributions or loans to the Partnership. The General Partner may contribute
additional capital to the Partnership, from time to time, and receive additional Partnership Interests in respect thereof, in the manner contemplated in this Section 4.02.      (a) Issuances of Additional Partnership Interests.      (i) General. The General Partner is hereby authorized to cause the Partnership to issue such additional Partnership Interests in the form of Partnership Units for any Partnership purpose at any time or from time to time, to the Partners
(including the General Partner) or to other Persons for such consideration and on such terms and conditions as shall be established by the General Partner in its sole and absolute discretion, all without the approval of any Limited Partners. Upon
such issuance of Partnership Units hereunder, the General Partner is hereby authorized to amend Exhibit A (and, if applicable, Exhibit C) attached hereto to reflect such issuance. Any additional Partnership Interests issued thereby may be issued in
one or more  
       
   11   

classes, or one or more series of any of such classes, with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights,
powers and duties, including rights, powers and duties senior to Limited Partnership Interests, all as shall be determined by the General Partner in its sole and absolute discretion and without the approval of any Limited Partner, subject to
Virginia law, including, without limitation, (i) the allocations of items of Partnership income, gain, loss, deduction and credit to each such class or series of Partnership Interests; (ii) the right of each such class or series of
Partnership Interests to share in Partnership distributions; and (iii) the rights of each such class or series of Partnership Interests upon dissolution and liquidation of the Partnership; provided, however, that no additional Partnership
Interests shall be issued to the General Partner unless either:      (1)(A) the additional Partnership Interests are issued in
connection with an issuance of shares of or other interests in HHTI, which shares or interests have designations, preferences and other rights, all such that the economic interests are substantially similar to the designations, preferences and other
rights of the additional Partnership Interests issued to the General Partner by the Partnership in accordance with this Section 4.02 and (B) the General Partner shall make a Capital Contribution to the Partnership in an amount equal to the
proceeds raised in connection with the issuance of such shares of HHTI or other interests in HHTI, or      (2) the additional
Partnership Interests are issued to all Partners in proportion to their respective Percentage Interests.      Without limiting the foregoing, the General
Partner is expressly authorized to cause the Partnership to issue Partnership Units for less than fair market value, so long as the General Partner concludes in good faith that such issuance is in the best interests of the General Partner and the
Partnership.      (ii) Upon Issuance of New Securities. After the initial public offering for HHTI (the  Initial Offering ), HHTI
shall not issue any additional REIT Shares (other than REIT Shares issued in connection with a redemption pursuant to Section 8.05 hereof) or rights, options, warrants or convertible or exchangeable securities containing the right to subscribe
for or purchase REIT Shares (collectively,  New Securities ) other than to all holders of REIT Shares, unless (A) the General Partner shall cause the Partnership to issue to the General Partner, Partnership Interests or rights,
options, warrants or convertible or exchangeable securities of the Partnership having designations, preferences and other rights, all such that the economic interests are substantially similar to those of the New Securities, and (B) HHTI
contributes to the General Partner and the General Partner contributes to the Partnership the proceeds from the issuance of such New Securities and from the exercise of rights contained in such New Securities to the Partnership; provided, however,
that HHTI is allowed to issue New Securities in connection with an acquisition of property to be held directly by HHTI, but if and only if such direct acquisition and issuance of New Securities have been approved and  
       
   12   

determined to be in the best interests of HHTI, the General Partner and the Partnership by a majority of the directors of HHTI, which majority includes a
majority of the Independent Directors (as defined in the Articles of Incorporation). Without limiting the foregoing, HHTI is expressly authorized to issue New Securities for less than fair market value and to cause the Partnership to issue to the
General Partner corresponding Partnership Interests, so long as (x) HHTI concludes in good faith that such issuance is in the best interests of HHTI, the General Partner and the Partnership (for example, and not by way of limitation, the
issuance of REIT Shares and corresponding Partnership Units pursuant to an employee stock purchase plan providing for employee purchases of REIT Shares at a discount from fair market value or employee stock options that have an exercise price that
is less than the fair market value of the REIT Shares, either at the time of issuance or at the time of exercise), and (y) HHTI contributes to the General Partner and the General Partner contributes to the Partnership all proceeds from such
issuance. By way of example, in the event HHTI issues REIT Shares for a cash purchase price and contributes all of the proceeds of such issuance to the General Partner for contribution to the Partnership as required hereunder, the General Partner
shall be issued a number of additional Partnership Units equal to the product of (A) the number of such REIT Shares issued by HHTI, the proceeds of which were so contributed, multiplied by (B) a fraction, the numerator of which is one
hundred percent (100%), and the denominator of which is the Conversion Factor in effect on the date of such contribution.      (b) Certain
Deemed Contributions of Proceeds of Issuance of Shares. In connection with any and all issuance of REIT Shares, HHTI shall contribute to the General Partner and the General Partner shall make a Capital Contribution to the Partnership of the proceeds
raised in connection with such issuance as required above, provided that if the proceeds actually received by the General Partner are less than the gross proceeds of such issuance as a result of any underwriter s discount or other expenses paid
or incurred in connection with such issuance, then the General Partner shall be deemed to have made a Capital Contribution to the Partnership in the amount of the gross proceeds of such issuance and the Partnership shall be deemed simultaneously to
have paid such offering expenses in connection with the required issuance of additional Partnership Units to General Partner for such Capital Contribution pursuant to Section 4.02(a) hereof.      4.03 General Partner Loans. The General Partner or HHTI may from time to time advance funds to the Partnership for any proper Partnership purpose as a
loan ( Funding Loan ), provided that any such funds must first be obtained by the General Partner or HHTI from a third party lender, and then all of such funds must be loaned by the General Partner or HHTI to the Partnership on the same
terms and conditions, including principal amount, interest rate, repayment schedule and costs and expenses, as shall be applicable with respect to or incurred in connection with such loan with such third party lender. Except for Funding Loans,
neither the General Partner nor HHTI shall incur any indebtedness for borrowed funds; provided, however, that upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors of HHTI, which majority must include a majority of the Independent Directors, any
loan proceeds received by the General Partner or HHTI may be distributed to their respective shareholders or other equity holders if such loan and distribution have been determined by the aforesaid majorities to be necessary to enable HHTI to
maintain its status as a REIT under Sections 856- 860 of the Code.         
   13   

4.04 Capital Accounts. A separate capital account (a  Capital Account ) shall be established
and maintained for each Partner in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv). If (i) a new or existing Partner acquires an additional Partnership Interest in exchange for more than a de minimis Capital Contribution,
(ii) the Partnership distributes to a Partner more than a de minimis amount of Partnership property as consideration for a Partnership Interest, or (iii) the Partnership is liquidated within the meaning of Regulation
Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(g), the General Partner shall revalue the property of the Partnership to its fair market value (taking into account Section 7701(g) of the Code) in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704- 1(b)(2)(iv)(f).
When the Partnership s property is revalued by the General Partner, the Capital Accounts of the Partners shall be adjusted in accordance with Regulations Sections 1.704-1(2)(iv)(f) and (g), which generally require such Capital Accounts to be
adjusted to reflect the manner in which the unrealized gain or loss inherent in such property (that has not been reflected in the Capital Accounts previously would be allocated among the Partners pursuant to Section 5.01 if there were a taxable
disposition of such property for its fair market value (taking into account Section 7701(g) of the Code) on the date of the revaluation.      4.05 Percentage Interests. If the number of outstanding Partnership Units increases or decreases during a taxable year, each Partner s Percentage Interest shall be adjusted to a percentage equal to the number of Partnership Units held
by such Partner divided by the aggregate number of outstanding Partnership Units. If the Partners  Percentage Interests are adjusted pursuant to this Section 4.05, the Profits and Losses for the taxable year in which the adjustment occurs
shall be allocated between the part of the year ending on the day when the Partnership s property is revalued by the General Partner and the part of the year beginning on the following day either (i) as if the taxable year had ended on the
date of the adjustment or (ii) based on the number of days in each part. The General Partner, in its sole discretion, shall determine which method shall be used to allocate Profits and Losses for the taxable year in which the adjustment occurs.
The allocation of Profits and Losses for the earlier part of the year shall be based on the Percentage Interests before adjustment, and the allocation of Profits and Losses for the later part shall be based on the adjusted Percentage Interests.
     4.06 No Interest on Contributions. No Partner shall be entitled to interest on its Capital Contribution.      4.07 Return of Capital Contributions. No Partner shall be entitled to withdraw any part of its Capital Contribution or its Capital Account or to receive
any distribution from the Company, except as specifically provided in this Agreement. Except as otherwise provided herein, there shall be no obligation to return to any Partner or withdrawn Partner any part of such Partner s Capital
Contribution for so long as the Partnership continues in existence.      4.08 No Third Party Beneficiary. No creditor or other third party
having dealings with the Partnership shall have the right to enforce the right or obligation of any Partner to make Capital Contributions or loans or to pursue any other right or remedy hereunder or at law or in equity, it being understood and
agreed that the provisions of this Agreement shall be solely for the benefit of, and may be enforced solely by, the parties hereto and their respective successors  
       
   14   

and assigns. None of the rights or obligations of the Partners herein set forth to make Capital Contributions or loans to the Partnership shall be deemed an
asset of the Partnership for any purpose by any creditor or other third party, nor may such rights or obligations be sold, transferred or assigned by the Partnership or pledged or encumbered by the Partnership to secure any debt or other obligation
of the Partnership or of any of the Partners. In addition, it is the intent of the parties hereto that no distribution to any Limited Partner shall be deemed a return of money or other property in violation of the Act. However, if any court of
competent jurisdiction holds that, notwithstanding the provisions of this Agreement, any Limited Partner is obligated to return such money or property, such obligation shall be the obligation of such Limited Partner and not of the General Partner.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a deficit Capital Account of a Partner shall not be deemed to be a liability of such Partner nor an asset or property of the Partnership.      4.09 Loans from Limited Partners. If a Limited Partner guarantying any debt that is secured by Property is required by the related lender to pay all or
part of such debt, the amount paid toward such debt by such Limited Partner shall be deemed a loan to the Partnership secured by the assets of the Partnership only and not those of the General Partner and shall be repaid in full, without interest,
by the Partnership prior to it making any distributions of cash pursuant to Sections 5.02 or 5.06.      ARTICLE V      PROFITS AND LOSSES; DISTRIBUTIONS      5.01
Allocation of Profit and Loss.      (a) General. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 5.01, Profit and Loss of the Partnership for
each fiscal year of the Partnership shall be allocated among the Partners in accordance with their respective Percentage Interests.      (b)
Minimum Gain Chargeback. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, (i) any expense of the Partnership that is a  non-recourse deduction  within the meaning of Regulations Section 1.704-2(b)(1) shall be allocated in
accordance with the Partners  respective Percentage Interests, (ii) any expense of the Partnership that is a  partner non-recourse deduction  within the meaning of Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(2) shall be allocated in
accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(1), (iii) if there is a net decrease in Partnership Minimum Gain within the meaning of Regulations Section 1.704-2(f)(1) for any Partnership taxable year, items of gain and income shall
be allocated among the Partners in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(f) and the ordering rules contained in Regulations Section 1.704-2(j), and (iv) if there is a net decrease in Partner Non-recourse Debt Minimum Gain within
the meaning of Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4) for any Partnership taxable year, items of gain and income shall be allocated among the Partners in accordance with Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4) and the ordering rules contained in
Regulations Section 1.704-2(j). A Partner s  interest in partnership profits  for purposes of determining its share of the non-recourse liabilities of the Partnership within the meaning of Regulations Section 1.752-3(a)(3)
shall be such Partner s Percentage Interest.         
   15   

(c) Qualified Income Offset. If a Limited Partner receives in any taxable year an adjustment, allocation,
or distribution described in subparagraphs (4), (5), or (6) of Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) that causes or increases a negative balance in such Partner s Capital Account that exceeds the sum of such Partner s shares
of Partnership Minimum Gain and Partner Non-recourse Debt Minimum Gain, as determined in accordance with Regulations Sections 1.704-2(g) and 1.704-2(i), such Partner shall be allocated specially for such taxable year (and, if necessary, later
taxable years) items of income and gain in an amount and manner sufficient to eliminate such negative Capital Account balance as quickly as possible as provided in Regulations Section 1.704- 1(b)(2)(ii)(d). After the occurrence of an allocation
of income or gain to a Limited Partner in accordance with this Section 5.01(c), to the extent permitted by Regulations Section 1.704-1(b), items of expense or loss shall be allocated to such Partner in an amount necessary to offset the
income or gain previously allocated to such Partner under this Section 5.01(c).      (d) Capital Account Deficits. Loss shall not be
allocated to a Limited Partner to the extent that such allocation would cause a deficit in such Partner s Capital Account (after reduction to reflect the items described in Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5) and
(6)) to exceed the sum of such Partner s shares of Partnership Minimum Gain and Partner Non-recourse Debt Minimum Gain. Any Loss in excess of that limitation shall be allocated to the General Partner. After the occurrence of an allocation
of Loss to the General Partner in accordance with this Section 5.01(d), to the extent permitted by Regulations Section 1.704-1(b), Profit shall be allocated to such Partner in an amount necessary to offset the Loss previously allocated to
such Partner under this Section 5.01(d).      (e) Allocations Between Transferor and Transferee. If a Partner transfers any part or all of
its Partnership Interest, and the transferee is admitted as a substitute Partner as provided herein, the distributive shares of the various items of Profit and Loss allocable among the Partners during such fiscal year of the Partnership shall be
allocated between the transferor and the substitute Partner either (i) as if the Partnership s fiscal year had ended on the date of the transfer, or (ii) based on the number of days of such fiscal year that each was a Partner without
regard to the results of Partnership activities in the respective portions of such fiscal year in which the transferor and the transferee were Partners. The General Partner, in its sole discretion, shall determine which method shall be used to
allocate the distributive shares of the various items of Profit and Loss between the transferor and the substitute Partner.      (f) Definition
of Profit and Loss.  Profit  and  Loss  and any items of income, gain, expense, or loss referred to in this Agreement shall be determined in accordance with federal income tax accounting principles, as modified by Regulations
Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv), except that Profit and Loss shall not include items of income, gain and expense that are specially allocated pursuant to Section 5.01(b), 5.01(c), 5.01(d), 5.01(g) or 5.01(h). All allocations of income, Profit,
gain, Loss, and expense (and all items contained therein) for federal income tax purposes shall be identical to all allocations of such items set forth in this Section 5.01, except as otherwise required by Section 704(c) of the Code and
Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(4).         
   16   

(g) Preferred Unit Distribution Allocation. Prior to any allocation set forth in Section 5.01(a)
above, holders of Preferred Units shall be allocated gross income in an amount equal to the cash distributed to the holder of the Preferred Units during the year in which such cash distribution is declared and the Partnership Record Date occurs,
even though cash may actually be distributed in a subsequent year.      (h) Capital Transaction Allocation. All income or gains from Capital
Transactions, including Capital Transactions in connection with the liquidation of the Partnership, shall be allocated in the following order and priority:      (i) First, to the holders of Preferred Units until each such holder s Capital Account balance (before taking into account the distribution of the net proceeds from the Capital Transaction, but after taking into
account the allocations pursuant to Sections 5.01(a) through 5.01(g)) equals the priority liquidating distribution of such holder, plus the amount of any accrued but unpaid priority distributions;      (ii) Second, to the holders of Common Units until each such holder s Capital Account balance (before taking into account the distribution of the
net proceeds from the Capital Transaction, but after taking into account the allocations pursuant to Sections 5.01(a) through 5.01(g)) equals the largest priority liquidating distribution per Unit of all Preferred Unit holders;      (iii) Thereafter, to the Partners, including both Common Unit holders and Preferred Unit holders, on an equal per Unit basis.      5.02 Distribution of Cash.      (a) The General
Partner shall distribute cash on a quarterly (or, at the election of the General Partner, more frequent) basis, in an amount determined by the General Partner in its sole discretion, to the Partners who are Partners on the Partnership Record Date
with respect to such quarter (or other distribution period) pro rata in accordance with their respective Percentage Interests on the Partnership Record Date; provided, however, with respect to Preferred Units, the terms of cash distributions shall
be set forth in Exhibit C describing the terms of such Preferred Units.      (b) In no event may a Partner receive a distribution of cash with
respect to a Partnership Unit if such Partner is entitled to receive a dividend with respect to a REIT Share for which all or part of such Partnership Unit has been or will be exchanged. If a new or existing Partner acquires an additional
Partnership Interest in exchange for a Capital Contribution on any date other than a Partnership Record Date, the cash distribution attributable to such additional Partnership Interest for the Partnership Record Date following the issuance of such
additional Partnership Interests shall be reduced in the proportion that the number of days that such  
       
   17   

additional Partnership Interest is held by such Partner bears to the number of days between such Partnership Record Date and the immediately preceding
Partnership Record Date.      (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the General Partner is authorized to take an action
that it determines to be necessary or appropriate to cause the Partnership to comply with any withholding requirements established under the Code or any other federal, state or local law including, without limitation, pursuant to Sections 1441,
1442, 1445 and 1446 of the Code. If the Partnership is required to withhold and pay over to any taxing authority any amount resulting from the allocation or distribution of income to a Partner or its assignee (including by reason of
Section 1446 of the Code) and if the amount to be distributed to the Partner (the  Distributable Amount ) equals or exceeds the amount required to be withheld by the Partnership (the  Withheld Amount ), the Withheld Amount
shall be treated as a distribution of cash to such Partner. If, however, the Distributable Amount is less than the Withheld Amount, no amount shall be distributed to the Partner, the Distributable Amounts shall be treated as a distribution of cash
to such Partner, and the excess of the Withheld Amount over the Distributable Amount shall be treated as a loan (a  Partnership Loan ) from the Partnership to the Partner on the day the Partnership pays over such excess to a taxing
authority. A Partnership Loan may be repaid, at the election of the General Partner in its sole and absolute discretion, either (i) through withholding by the Partnership with respect to subsequent distributions to the applicable Partner or
assignee, or (ii) at any time more than twelve (12) months after a Partnership Loan arises, by cancellation of Partnership Units with a value equal to the unpaid balance of the Partnership Loan (including accrued interest). Any amounts
treated as a Partnership Loan pursuant to this Section 5.02(c) shall bear interest at the lesser of (i) the base rate on corporate loans at large United States money center commercial banks, as published from time to time in The Wall
Street Journal (or an equivalent successor publication), or (ii) the maximum lawful rate of interest on such obligation, such interest to accrue from the date the Partnership is deemed to extend the loan until such loan is repaid in full.
     5.03 REIT Distribution Requirements. The General Partner shall use its reasonable efforts to cause the Partnership to distribute amounts
sufficient to enable the General Partner (i) to meet its distribution requirement for qualification as a REIT as set forth in Section 857(a)(1) of the Code and (ii) to avoid any federal income or excise tax liability imposed by the
Code; provided, however, that the Limited Partners shall receive their pro rata share of all distributions.      5.04 No Right to Distributions
in Kind. No Partner shall be entitled to demand property other than cash in connection with any distributions by the Partnership.      5.05
Limitations on Return of Capital Contributions. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Article V, no Partner shall have the right to receive and the General Partner shall not have the right to make, a distribution which includes a return of
all or part of a Partner s Capital Contributions, unless after giving effect to the return of a Capital Contribution, the sum of all Partnership liabilities, other than the liabilities to a Partner for the return of his Capital Contribution,
does not exceed the fair market value of the Partnership s assets.         
   18   

5.06 Distributions Upon Liquidation.      (a) Upon liquidation of the Partnership, after payment of, or adequate provision for, debts and obligations of the Partnership, including any Partner
loans, any remaining assets of the Partnership shall be distributed to all Partners with positive Capital Accounts in accordance with their respective positive Capital Account balances. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the Capital Account of
each Partner shall be determined after all adjustments made in accordance with Sections 5.01 and 5.02, including, without limitation, Section 5.01(h), resulting from Partnership operations and from all sales and dispositions of all or any part
of the Partnership s assets. Any distributions pursuant to this Section 5.06 shall be made by the end of the Partnership s taxable year in which the liquidation occurs (or, if later, within 90 days after the date of the liquidation).
To the extent deemed advisable by the General Partner, appropriate arrangements (including the use of a liquidating trust) may be made to assure that adequate funds are available to pay any contingent debts or obligations.      (b) If the General Partner has a negative balance in its Capital Account following a liquidation of the Partnership, as determined after taking into
account all Capital Account Adjustments in accordance with Sections 5.01 and 5.02 resulting from Partnership operations and from all sales and dispositions of all or any part of the Partnership s assets, the General Partner shall contribute to
the Partnership an amount of cash equal to the negative balance in its Capital Account and such cash shall be paid or distributed by the Partnership to creditors, if any, and then to the Limited Partners in accordance with Section 5.06(a). Such
contribution by the General Partner shall be made by the end of the Partnership s taxable year in which the liquidation occurs (or, if later, within 90 days after the date of the liquidation).      5.07 Substantial Economic Effect. It is the intent of the Partners that the allocations of Profit and Loss under the Agreement have substantial economic
effect (or be consistent with the Partners  interests in the Partnership in the case of the allocation of losses attributable to non-recourse debt) within the meaning of Section 704(b) of the Code as interpreted by the Regulations
promulgated pursuant thereto. Article V and other relevant provisions of this Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with such intent.      ARTICLE VI      RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS AND      POWERS OF THE GENERAL PARTNER      6.01 Management of the Partnership.      (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the General Partner shall have full, complete and exclusive discretion to manage and control
the business of the Partnership for the purposes herein stated, and shall make all decisions affecting the business and assets of the Partnership. Subject to the restrictions specifically contained in this Agreement, the powers of the General
Partner shall include, without limitation, the authority to take the following actions on behalf of the Partnership:         
   19   

(i) to acquire, purchase, own, lease and dispose of any real property and any other property or assets
that the General Partner determines are necessary or appropriate or in the best interests of the business of the Partnership;      (ii) to
construct buildings and make other improvements on the properties owned or leased by the Partnership;      (iii) to borrow money for or lend
money by the Partnership, issue evidences of indebtedness in connection therewith, refinance, guarantee, increase the amount of, modify, amend or change the terms of, or extend the time for the payment of, any indebtedness or obligation to the
Partnership, and secure such indebtedness by mortgage, deed of trust, pledge or other lien on the Partnership s assets;      (iv) to pay,
either directly or by reimbursement, for all operating costs and general administrative expenses of the General Partner or the Partnership, to third parties or to the General Partner as set forth in this Agreement;      (v) to lease all or any portion of any of the Partnership s assets, whether or not the terms of such leases extend beyond the termination date of
the Partnership and whether or not any portion of the Partnership s assets so leased are to be occupied by the lessee, or, in turn, subleased in whole or in part to others, for such consideration and on such terms as the General Partner may
determine;      (vi) to prosecute, defend, arbitrate, or compromise any and all claims or liabilities in favor of or against the Partnership,
on such terms and in such manner as the General Partner may reasonably determine, and similarly to prosecute, settle or defend litigation with respect to the Partners, the Partnership, or the Partnership s assets; provided, however, that the
General Partner may not, without the consent of all of the Partners, confess a judgment against the Partnership;      (vii) to file
applications, communicate, and otherwise deal with any and all governmental agencies having jurisdiction over, or in any way affecting, the Partnership s assets or any other aspect of the Partnership business;      (viii) to make or revoke any election permitted or required of the Partnership by any taxing authority;      (ix) to maintain such insurance coverage for public liability, fire and casualty, and any and all other insurance for the protection of the Partnership,
for the conservation of Partnership assets, or for any other purpose convenient or beneficial to the Partnership, in such amounts and such types, as it shall determine from time to time;         
   20   

(x) to determine whether or not to apply any insurance proceeds for any property to the restoration of
such property or to distribute the same;      (xi) to retain legal counsel, accountants, consultants, real estate brokers, and such other
persons, as the General Partner may deem necessary or appropriate in connection with the Partnership business and to pay therefor such reasonable remuneration as the General Partner may deem reasonable and proper;      (xii) to retain other services of any kind or nature in connection with the Partnership business, and to pay therefor such remuneration as the General
Partner may deem reasonable and proper;      (xiii) to negotiate and conclude agreements on behalf of the Partnership with respect to any of
the rights, powers and authority conferred upon the General Partner;      (xiv) to maintain accurate accounting records and to file promptly
all federal, state and local income tax returns on behalf of the Partnership;      (xv) to distribute Partnership cash or other Partnership
assets in accordance with this Agreement;      (xvi) to form or acquire an interest in, and contribute property to, any further limited or
general partnerships, joint ventures or other relationships that it deems desirable (including, without limitation, the acquisition of interests in, and the contributions of property to, its Subsidiaries and any other Person in which it has an
equity interest from time to time);      (xvii) to establish Partnership reserves for working capital, capital expenditures, contingent
liabilities, or any other valid Partnership purpose; and      (xviii) to take such other action, execute, acknowledge, swear to or deliver
such other documents and instruments, and perform any and all other acts the General Partner deems necessary or appropriate for the formation, continuation and conduct of the business and affairs of the Partnership and to possess and enjoy all of
the rights and powers of a general partner as provided by the Act.      (b) Except as otherwise provided herein, to the extent the duties of
the General Partner require expenditures of funds to be paid to third parties, the General Partner shall not have any obligations hereunder except to the extent that Partnership funds are reasonably available to it for the performance of such
duties, and nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize or require the General Partner, in its capacity as such, to expend its individual funds for payment to third parties or to undertake any individual liability or obligation on behalf
of the Partnership.         
   21   

6.02 Delegation of Authority. The General Partner may delegate any or all of its powers, rights and
obligations hereunder, and may appoint, employ, contract or otherwise deal with any Person for the transaction of the business of the Partnership, which Person may, under supervision of the General Partner, perform any acts or services for the
Partnership as the General Partner may approve.      6.03 Indemnification and Exculpation of Indemnitees.      (a) The Partnership shall indemnify an Indemnitee from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, joint or several, expenses (including
reasonable legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements, and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that relate to the operations of the
Partnership as set forth in this Agreement in which any Indemnitee may be involved, or is threatened to be involved, as a party or otherwise, unless it is established that: (i) the act or omission of the Indemnitee was material to the matter
giving rise to the proceeding and either was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty; (ii) the Indemnitee actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services; or (iii) in the
case of any criminal proceeding, the Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. The termination of any proceeding by judgment, order or settlement does not create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not meet
the requisite standard of conduct set forth in this Section 6.03(a). The termination of any proceeding by conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, or an entry of an order of probation prior to judgment, creates a
rebuttable presumption that the Indemnitee acted in a manner contrary to that specified in this Section 6.03(a). Any indemnification pursuant to this Section 6.03 shall be made only out of the assets of the Partnership.      (b) The Partnership may reimburse an Indemnitee for reasonable expenses incurred by an Indemnitee who is a party to a proceeding in advance of the final
disposition of the proceeding upon receipt by the Partnership of (i) a written affirmation by the Indemnitee of the Indemnitee s good faith belief that the standard of conduct necessary for indemnification by the Partnership as authorized
in this Section 6.03 has been met, and (ii) a written undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnitee to repay the amount if it shall ultimately be determined that the standard of conduct has not yet been met.      (c) The indemnification provided by this Section 6.03 shall be in addition to any other rights to which an Indemnitee or any other Person may be
entitled under any agreement, pursuant to any vote of the Partners, as a matter of law or otherwise, and shall continue as to an Indemnitee who has ceased to serve in such capacity.      (d) The Partnership may purchase and maintain insurance, on behalf of the Indemnitees and such other Persons as the General Partner shall determine,
against any liability that may be asserted against or expenses that may be incurred by such Person in connection with the Partnership s activities, regardless of whether the Partnership would have the power to indemnify such Person against such
liability under the provisions of this Agreement.         
   22   

(e) For purposes of this Section 6.03, the Partnership shall be deemed to have requested an
Indemnitee to serve as fiduciary of an employee benefit plan whenever the performance by it of its duties to the Partnership also imposes duties on, or otherwise involves services by, it to the plan or participants or beneficiaries of the plan;
excise taxes assessed on an Indemnitee with respect to an employee benefit plan pursuant to applicable law shall constitute fines within the meaning of this Section 6.03; and actions taken or omitted by the Indemnitee with respect to an
employee benefit plan in the performance of its duties for a purpose reasonably believed by it to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of the plan shall be deemed to be for a purpose which is not opposed to the best interests of
the Partnership.      (f) In no event may an Indemnitee subject the Limited Partners to personal liability by reason of the indemnification
provisions set forth in this Agreement.      (g) An Indemnitee shall not be denied indemnification in whole or in part under this
Section 6.03 because the Indemnitee had an interest in the transaction with respect to which the indemnification applies if the transaction was otherwise permitted by the terms of this Agreement.      (h) The provisions of this Section 6.03 are for the benefit of the Indemnitees, their heirs, successors, assigns and administrators and shall not be
deemed to create any rights for the benefit of any other Persons.      (i) Any amendment, modification or repeal of this Section 6.03 or
any provision hereof shall be prospective only and shall not in any way affect the limitations on the General Partner s or HHTI s liability to the Partnership and the Limited Partners under this Section 6.03 as in effect immediately
prior to such amendment, modification or repeal with respect to matters occurring, in whole or in part, prior to such amendment, modification or repeal, regardless of when claims relating to such matters may arise or be asserted.      6.04 Liability of the General Partner.      (a)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Agreement, the General Partner shall not be liable for monetary damages to the Partnership or any Partners for losses sustained or liabilities incurred as a result of errors in judgment or
of any act or omission if the General Partner acted in good faith.      (b) The Limited Partners expressly acknowledge that the General Partner
is acting on behalf of the Partnership and the General Partner s shareholders collectively, that the General Partner is under no obligation to consider the separate interests of the Limited Partners (including, without limitation, the tax
consequences to Limited Partners) in deciding whether to cause the Partnership to take (or decline to take) any actions, and that the General Partner shall not be liable for monetary damages for losses sustained, liabilities incurred, or benefits
not derived by Limited Partners in connection with such decisions, provided that the General Partner has acted in good faith.         
   23   

(c) Subject to its obligations and duties as General Partner set forth in Section 6.01 hereof, the
General Partner may exercise any of the powers granted to it under this Agreement and perform any of the duties imposed upon it hereunder either directly or by or through its agents. The General Partner shall not be responsible for any misconduct or
negligence on the part of any such agent appointed by it in good faith.      (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement or the
Act, any action of the General Partner on behalf of the Partnership or any decision of the General Partner to refrain from acting on behalf of the Partnership, undertaken in the good faith belief that such action or omission is necessary or
advisable in order (i) to protect the ability of HHTI to continue to qualify as a REIT, or (ii) to prevent HHTI from incurring any taxes under Section 857, Section 4981, or any other provision of the Code, is expressly authorized
under this Agreement and is deemed approved by all of the Limited Partners.      (e) Any amendment, modification or repeal of this
Section 6.04 or any provision hereof shall be prospective only and shall not in any way affect the limitations on the General Partner s liability to the Partnership and the Limited Partners under this Section 6.04 as in effect
immediately prior to such amendment, modification or repeal with respect to matters occurring, in whole or in part, prior to such amendment, modification or repeal, regardless of when claims relating to such matters may arise or be asserted.
     6.05 Expenditures by Partnership. The General Partner is hereby authorized to pay compensation for accounting, administrative, legal,
technical, management and other services rendered to the Partnership. All of the aforesaid expenditures (including Administrative Expenses) shall be made on behalf of the Partnership, and the General Partner and HHTI shall be entitled to
reimbursement by the Partnership for any expenditure (including Administrative Expenses) incurred by it on behalf of the Partnership which shall be made other than out of the funds of the Partnership. The Partnership shall also assume, and pay when
due, all Administrative Expenses.      6.06 Outside Activities; Redemption/Tender Offer of REIT Shares.      (a) Subject to Section 6.09 hereof, the Articles of Incorporation and any agreements entered into by the General Partner or its Affiliates with the
Partnership or a Subsidiary, any officer, director, employee, agent, Affiliate or shareholder of the General Partner shall be entitled to and may have business interests and engage in business activities in addition to those relating to the
Partnership, including business interests and activities substantially similar or identical to those of the Partnership. Neither the Partnership nor any of the Limited Partners shall have any rights by virtue of this Agreement in any such business
ventures, interest or activities. None of the Limited Partners nor any other Person shall have any rights by virtue of this Agreement or the partnership relationship established hereby in any such business ventures, interests or activities, and the
General Partner shall have no obligation pursuant to this Agreement to offer any interest in any such business ventures, interests and activities to the Partnership or any Limited Partner, even if such opportunity is of a character which, if
presented to the Partnership or any Limited Partner, could be taken by such Person.         
   24   

(b) In the event HHTI redeems any REIT Shares, then the General Partner shall cause the Partnership to
purchase from it a number of Partnership Units as determined based on the application of the Conversion Factor on the same terms that HHTI redeemed such REIT Shares. Moreover, if HHTI makes a cash tender offer or other offer to acquire REIT Shares,
then the General Partner shall cause the Partnership to make a corresponding offer to the General Partner to acquire an equal number of Partnership Units held by the General Partner. In the event any REIT Shares are redeemed by HHTI pursuant to such
offer, the Partnership shall redeem an equivalent number of the General Partner s Partnership Units for an equivalent purchase price based on the application of the Conversion Factor.      6.07 Employment or Retention of Affiliates.      (a) Any Affiliate of the General Partner may be employed or retained by the Partnership and may otherwise deal with the Partnership (whether as a buyer, lessor, lessee, manager, furnisher of goods or services, broker, agent, lender or
otherwise) and may receive from the Partnership any compensation, price, or other payment therefor that is fair and reasonable for the services provided.      (b) The Partnership may lend or contribute to its Subsidiaries or other Persons in which it has an equity investment, and such Persons may borrow funds from the Partnership, on terms and conditions established in the
sole and absolute discretion of the General Partner. The foregoing authority shall not create any right or benefit in favor of any Subsidiary or any other Person.      (c) The Partnership may transfer assets to joint ventures, other partnerships, corporations or other business entities in which it is or thereby becomes a participant upon such terms and subject to such conditions as
the General Partner deems are consistent with this Agreement and applicable law.      (d) Except as expressly permitted by this Agreement,
neither the General Partner nor any of its Affiliates shall sell, transfer or convey any property to, or purchase any property from, the Partnership, directly or indirectly, except pursuant to transactions that are on terms that are fair and
reasonable to the Partnership.      6.08 General Partner Participation. The General Partner and HHTI agree that all business activities of the
General Partner and HHTI, including activities pertaining to the acquisition, development and/or ownership of hotels or other property, shall be conducted through the Partnership; provided, however, that the General Partner and HHTI are each allowed
to make a direct acquisition, but if and only if, such acquisition is made in connection with the issuance of New Securities, which direct acquisition and issuance have been approved and determined to be in the best interests of the General Partner
and HHTI and the Partnership by a majority of the Independent Directors. The General Partner and HHTI also agree that all borrowings shall constitute Funding Loans, subject to the exception set forth in Section 4.03 hereof.         
   25   

ARTICLE VII      CHANGES IN GENERAL PARTNER      7.01 Transfer of the General Partner s Partnership Interest.   
  (a) The General Partner may not transfer any of its General Partnership Interest or Limited Partnership Interests or withdraw as General Partner or
HHTI may not transfer its interest in the General Partner or withdraw from the General Partner except as provided in Section 7.01(c) or in connection with a transaction described in Section 7.01(d).      (b) The General Partner agrees that it will at all times own at least a 20% Percentage Interest in the form of a General Partner Interest.      (c) Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.06(b) or Section 7.01(d) hereof, the General Partner and HHTI shall not engage in any merger,
consolidation or other combination with or into another Person or sale of all or substantially all of its assets, or any reclassification, or any recapitalization or change of outstanding REIT Shares (other than a change in par value, or from par
value to no par value, or as a result of a subdivision or combination of REIT Shares) (a  Transaction ), unless (i) the Transaction also includes a merger of the Partnership or sale of substantially all of the assets of the
Partnership as a result of which all Limited Partners will receive for each Partnership Unit an amount of cash, securities, or other property equal to the product of the Conversion Factor and the greatest amount of cash, securities other property
paid in the Transaction to a holder of one REIT Share in consideration of one REIT Share, provided that if, in connection with the Transaction, a purchase, tender or exchange offer ( Offer ) shall have been made to and accepted by the
holders of more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding REIT Shares, each holder of Partnership Units shall be given the option to exchange its Partnership Units for the greatest amount of cash, securities, or other property which a Limited
Partner would have received had it (A) exercised its Redemption Right and (B) sold, tendered or exchanged pursuant to the Offer the REIT Shares received upon exercise of the Redemption Right immediately prior to the expiration of the
Offer.      (d) Notwithstanding Section 7.01(c), HHTI may merge with or into or consolidate with another entity if immediately after such
merger or consolidation (i) substantially all of the assets of the successor or surviving entity (the  Surviving Entity ), other than Partnership Units held by the General Partner or HHTI s interest in the General Partner,
respectively, are contributed, directly or indirectly, to the Partnership as a Capital Contribution in exchange for Partnership Units with a fair market value equal to the value of the assets so contributed as determined by the Surviving Entity in
good faith and (ii) the Surviving Entity expressly agrees to assume all obligations of HHTI hereunder. Upon such contribution and assumption, the Surviving Entity shall have the right and duty to amend this Agreement as set forth in this
Section 7.01(d). The Surviving Entity shall in good faith arrive at a new method for the calculation of the Cash Amount, the REIT Shares Amount and Conversion Factor for a Partnership Unit after any such merger or consolidation so as to
approximate the existing method  
       
   26   

for such calculation as closely as reasonably possible. Such calculation shall take into account, among other things, the kind and amount of securities, cash
and other property that was receivable upon such merger or consolidation by a holder of REIT Shares or options, warrants or other rights relating thereto, and to which a holder of Partnership Units could have acquired had such Partnership Units been
exchanged immediately prior to such merger or consolidation. Such amendment to this Agreement shall provide for adjustment to such method of calculation, which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for with
respect to the Conversion Factor. The Surviving Entity also shall in good faith modify the definition of REIT Shares and make such amendments to Section 8.05 hereof so as to approximate the existing rights and obligations set forth in
Section 8.05 as closely as reasonably possible. The above provisions of this Section 7.01(d) shall similarly apply to successive mergers or consolidations permitted hereunder.      (e) Notwithstanding Section 4.02(a)(ii), Section 6.08, and Section 7.01(c) and (d), the Partners acknowledge and agree that the ownership
interests in E P REIT Trust and E P Financing Limited Partnership acquired in the Merger with Supertel Hospitality, Inc. shall be held directly by HHTI and shall not be contributed to the Partnership.      7.02 Admission of a Substitute or Successor General Partner. A Person shall be admitted as a substitute or successor General Partner of the Partnership
only if the following terms and conditions are satisfied:      (a) a majority-in-interest of the Limited Partners (other than the General
Partner) shall have consented in writing to the admission of the substitute or successor General Partner, which consent may be withheld in the sole discretion of such Limited Partners;      (b) the Person to be admitted as a substitute or additional General Partner shall have accepted and agreed to be bound by all terms and provisions of
this Agreement by executing a counterpart thereof and such other documents or instruments as may be required or appropriate in order to effect the admission of such Person as a General Partner, and a certificate evidencing the admission of such
Person as a General Partner shall have been filed for recordation and all other actions required by Section 2.05 hereof in connection with such admission shall have been performed;      (c) if the Person to be admitted as a substitute or additional General Partner is a corporation or a partnership it shall have provided the Partnership
with evidence satisfactory to counsel for the Partnership of such Person s authority to become a General Partner and to be bound by the terms and provisions of this Agreement; and      (d) counsel for the Partnership shall have rendered an opinion (relying on such opinions from other counsel and the state or any other jurisdiction as
may be necessary) that the admission of the person to be admitted as a substitute or additional General Partner is in conformity with the Act, that none of the actions taken in connection with the admission of such Person as a substitute or
additional General Partner will cause (i) the Partnership to be classified other than as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or (ii) the loss of any Limited Partner s limited liability.         
   27   

7.03 Effect of Bankruptcy, Withdrawal, Death or Dissolution of a General Partner.      (a) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Bankruptcy as to a General Partner (and its removal pursuant to Section 7.04(a) hereof) or the withdrawal,
removal or dissolution of a General Partner (except that, if a General Partner is on the date of such occurrence a partnership, the withdrawal, death, dissolution, Event of Bankruptcy as to, or removal of a partner in, such partnership shall be
deemed not to be a dissolution of such General Partner if the business of such General Partner is continued by the remaining partner or partners), the Partnership shall be dissolved and terminated unless the Partnership is continued pursuant to
Section 7.03(b) hereof.      (b) Following the occurrence of an Event of Bankruptcy as to a General Partner (and its removal pursuant to
Section 7.04(a) hereof) or the withdrawal, removal or dissolution of a General Partner (except that, if a General Partner is on the date of such occurrence a partnership, the withdrawal, death, dissolution, Event of Bankruptcy as to, or removal
of a partner in, such partnership shall be deemed not to be a dissolution of such General Partner if the business of such General Partner is continued by the remaining partner or partners), the Limited Partners, within 90 days after such occurrence,
may elect to reconstitute the Partnership and continue the business of the Partnership for the balance of the term specified in Section 2.04 hereof by selecting, subject to Section 7.02 hereof and any other provisions of this Agreement, a
substitute General Partner by unanimous consent of the Limited Partners. If the Limited Partners elect to reconstitute the Partnership and admit a substitute General Partner, the relationship with the Partners and of any Person who has acquired an
interest of a Partner in the Partnership shall be governed by this Agreement.      7.04 Removal of a General Partner.      (a) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Bankruptcy as to, or the dissolution of, a General Partner, such General Partner shall be deemed to be removed
automatically; provided, however, that if a General Partner is on the date of such occurrence a partnership, the withdrawal, death, dissolution, Event of Bankruptcy as to or removal of a partner in such partnership shall be deemed not to be a
dissolution of the General Partner if the business of such General Partner is continued by the remaining partner or partners.      (b) if a
General Partner has been removed pursuant to this Section 7.04 and the Partnership is continued pursuant to Section 7.03 hereof, such General Partner shall promptly transfer and assign its General Partnership Interest in the partnership
(i) to the substitute General Partner approved by a majority-in-interest of the Limited Partners (excluding the General Partner) in accordance with Section 7.03(b) hereof and otherwise admitted to the Partnership in accordance with
Section 7.02 hereof. At the time of assignment, the removed General Partner shall be entitled to receive from the substitute General Partner the fair market value of the General Partnership Interest of such removed General Partner as reduced by
any damages caused  
       
   28   

to the Partnership by such General Partner. Such fair market value shall be determined by an appraiser mutually agreed upon by the General Partner and a
majority-in-interest of the Limited Partners (excluding the General Partner) within 10 days following the removal of the General Partner. In the event that the parties are unable to agree upon an appraiser, the General Partner and a
majority-in-interest of the Limited Partners (excluding the General Partner) each shall select an appraiser. Each such appraiser shall complete an appraisal of the fair market value of the General Partner s General Partnership Interest within
30 days of the General Partner s removal, and the fair market value of the General Partner s General Partnership Interest shall be the average of the two appraisals; provided however, that if the higher appraisal exceeds the lower
appraisal by more than 20% of the amount of the lower appraisal, the two appraisers, no later than 40 days after the removal of the General Partner, shall select a third appraiser who shall complete an appraisal of the fair market value of the
General Partner s General Partnership Interest no later than 60 days after the removal of the General Partner. In such case, the fair market value of the General Partner s General Partnership Interest shall be the average of the two
appraisals closest in value.      (c) The General Partnership Interest of a removed General Partner, during the time after default until
transfer under Section 7.04(b), shall be converted to that of a special Limited Partner; provided, however, such removed General Partner shall not have any rights to participate in the management and affairs of the Partnership, and shall not be
entitled to any portion of the income, expense, profit, gain or loss allocations or cash distributions allocable or payable as the case may be, to the Limited Partners. Instead, such removed General Partner shall receive and be entitled only to
retain distributions or allocations of such items which it would have been entitled to receive in its capacity as General Partner, until the transfer is effective pursuant to Section 7.04(b).      (d) All Partners shall have given and hereby do give such consents, shall take such actions and shall execute such documents as shall be legally
necessary and sufficient to effect all the foregoing provisions of this Section.      ARTICLE VIII      RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS      OF THE LIMITED PARTNERS
     8.01 Management of the Partnership. The Limited Partners shall not participate in the management or control of Partnership business nor
shall they transact any business for the Partnership, nor shall they have the power to sign for or bind the Partnership, such powers being vested solely and exclusively in the General Partner.      8.02 Power of Attorney. Each Limited Partner hereby irrevocably appoints the General Partner his true and lawful attorney-in-fact, who may act for each
Limited Partner and in his name, place and stead, and for his use and benefit, to sign, acknowledge, swear to, deliver, file and record, at the appropriate public offices, any and all documents, certificates, and instruments  
       
   29   

as may be deemed necessary or desirable by the General Partner to carry out fully the provisions of this Agreement and the Act in accordance with their
terms, which power of attorney is coupled with an interest and shall survive the death, dissolution or legal incapacity of the Limited Partner, or the transfer by the Limited Partner of any part or all of his Interest in the Partnership. This power
of attorney shall be limited to documents, certificates and instruments the contents of which shall have no adverse economic impact on the Limited Partners.      8.03 Limitation on Liability of Limited Partners. No Limited Partner shall be liable for any debts, liabilities, contracts or obligations of the Partnership. A Limited Partner shall be liable to the Partnership only
to make payments of his Capital Contribution, if any, as and when due hereunder. After his Capital Contribution is fully paid, no Limited Partner shall, except as otherwise required by the Act, be required to make any further Capital Contribution or
other payments or lend any funds to the Partnership.      8.04 Ownership by Limited Partner of Corporate General Partner or Affiliate. No
Limited Partner shall at any time, either directly or indirectly, own any stock or other interest in the General Partner or in any Affiliate thereof, if such ownership by itself or in conjunction with other stock or other interests owned by other
Limited Partners would, in the opinion of counsel for the Partnership, jeopardize the classification of the Partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The General Partner shall be entitled to make such reasonable inquiry of the
Limited Partners as is required to establish compliance by the Limited Partners with the provisions of this Section.      8.05 Redemption
Right.      (a) Subject to Sections 8.05(b), 8.05(c) and 8.05(e), and the provisions of any agreement between the Partnership and any Limited
Partner with respect to Common Units held by such Limited Partner, each Limited Partner shall have the right (the  Redemption Right ), on or after the first anniversary of the issuance by the Partnership of any Common Units (the
 Redemption Date ), to require the Partnership to redeem on a Specified Redemption Date all or a portion of the applicable Common Units held by such Limited Partner at a redemption price equal to and in the form of the Cash Amount to be
paid by the Partnership. The Redemption Right shall be exercised pursuant to a Notice of Redemption delivered to the Partnership (with a copy to the General Partner and HHTI) by the Limited Partner who is exercising the Redemption Right (the
 Redeeming Partner  provided, however, that the Partnership shall not be obligated to satisfy such Redemption Right if the General Partner or HHTI elects to purchase the Common Units described in the Notice of Redemption pursuant to
Section 8.05(b). A Limited Partner may not exercise the Redemption Right for less than one thousand (1,000) Common Units or, if such Limited Partner holds less than one thousand (1,000) Common Units, all of the Common Units held by
such Partner.      (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8.05(a), a Limited Partner that exercises the Redemption Right shall be
deemed to have offered to sell the Common Units described in the Notice of Redemption to the General Partner and HHTI, and the General Partner or HHTI may, in its sole and absolute discretion, assume directly and satisfy a Redemption Right  
       
   30   

within the maximum limits provided in Section 8.05(c) and minimum limits provided in Section 8.05(a) by paying to the Redeeming Partner the
Redemption Amount on the Specified Redemption Date, whereupon the General Partner or HHTI, as applicable, shall acquire the Common Units offered for redemption by the Redeeming Partner and shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as the
owner of such Common Units. If the General Partner or HHTI shall elect to exercise its right to purchase Common Units under this Section 8.05(b) with respect to a Notice of Redemption, it shall so notify the Redeeming Partner within five
(5) business days after the receipt by the General Partner and HHTI of such Notice of Redemption. Such notice shall indicate whether the General Partner or HHTI will pay the Cash Amount or the REIT Shares Amount, which determination shall be
made by the General Partner or HHTI in its sole discretion. Unless the General Partner or HHTI (in its sole and absolute discretion) shall exercise its right to purchase Common Units from the Redeeming Partner pursuant to this Section 8.05(b),
the General Partner and HHTI shall not have any obligation to the Redeeming Partner or the Partnership with respect to the Redeeming Partner s exercise of the Redemption Right. In the event the General Partner or HHTI shall exercise its right
to satisfy the Redemption Right in the manner described in the first sentence of this Section 8.05(b), the Partnership shall have no obligation to pay any amount to the Redeeming Partner with respect to such Redeeming Partner s exercise of
the Redemption Right, and each of the Redeeming Partner, the Partnership, and the General Partner or HHTI, as applicable, shall treat the transaction between the General Partner or HHTI, as applicable, and the Redeeming Partner as a sale of the
Redeeming Partner s Common Units to the General Partner or HHTI, as applicable, for federal income tax purposes. Each Redeeming Partner agrees to execute such documents as the General Partner may reasonably require in connection with the
issuance of REIT Shares upon exercise of the Redemption Right.      (c) Notwithstanding Sections 8.05(a) and 8.05(b), except as provided in
Section 8.05(e), a Limited Partner shall not be entitled to exercise the Redemption Right if the delivery of REIT Shares to such Partner on the Specified Redemption Date by the General Partner or HHTI pursuant to Section 8.05(b)
(regardless of whether or not the General Partner or HHTI would in fact exercise its rights under Section 8.05(b)) would (i) result in such Partner or any other person owning, directly or indirectly, REIT Shares in excess of the
 Ownership Limit,  as defined in the Articles of Incorporation and calculated in accordance therewith, except as provided in the Articles of Incorporation, (ii) result in REIT Shares being owned by fewer than 100 persons (determined
without reference to any rules of attribution), except as provided in the Articles of Incorporation, (iii) result in HHTI being  closely held  within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code, (iv) cause the General Partner
or HHTI to own, directly or constructively, 10% or more of the ownership interests in a tenant of the General Partner s, HHTI s, the Partnership s or the Subsidiary Partnership s real property, within the meaning of
Section 856(d)(2)(B) of the Code, or (v) cause the acquisition of REIT Shares by such Partner to be  integrated  with any other distribution of REIT Shares for purposes of complying with the registration provisions of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The General Partner or HHTI, in its sole and absolute discretion, may waive the restriction on redemption set forth in this Section 8.05(c); provided, however, that in the event such restriction is waived,
the Redeeming Partner shall be paid the Cash Amount. Any Cash Amount to be paid to a redeeming Limited Partner pursuant to Section 8.05(a) or this Section 8.05(c) shall be paid within sixty (60) days after the initial date of receipt
by the Partnership, the General Partner and HHTI of the Notice of  
       
   31   

Redemption relating to the Common Units to be redeemed; provided, however, that such sixty (60) day period may be extended for up to an additional one
hundred eighty (180) day period to the extent required for the Partnership, the General Partner and HHTI to obtain financing for the payment of the Cash Amount. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the General Partner, HHTI and the Partnership agree
to use their best efforts to cause the closing of the acquisition of redeemed Common Units hereunder to occur as quickly as reasonably possible.      (d) Each certificate, if any, evidencing REIT Shares that may be issued in redemption of Common Units under this Section 8.05 (the  Redemption Shares ) shall bear a restrictive legend in substantially the following form:
      The shares represented by this certificate have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state
securities law. No transfer of the Shares represented by this certificate shall be valid or effective unless (A) such transfer is made pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
 Act ), or (B) the holder of the securities proposed to be transferred shall have delivered to the company either a no-action letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission or an opinion of counsel (who may be an employee of such
holder) experienced in securities matters to the effect that such proposed transfer is exempt from the registration requirements of the Act which opinion shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Company.       (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the General Partner shall place appropriate restrictions on the ability of the Limited
Partners to exercise their Redemption Rights as and if deemed necessary to ensure that the partnership does not constitute a  publicly traded partnership  under Section 7704 of the Code.      (f) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the terms of any separate written agreement between the Partnership and a Partner pertaining
to redemption rights shall supersede the terms of this Section 8.05.      8.06 Registration.      (a) Shelf Registration. Within two weeks of any Specified Redemption Date, HHTI agrees to file with the Commission a shelf registration statement under
Rule 415 of the Securities Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission (the  Shelf Registration ), with respect to the issuance and/or the resale of all of the Redemption Shares that are issuable with respect to a
redemption for the REIT Shares Amount of the Common Units which become redeemable on such date. HHTI will use its commercially reasonable best efforts to have the Shelf Registration declared effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable
after such filing and to keep the Shelf Registration continuously effective until the earlier of (i) the date when all of the Redemption Shares registered thereby are sold, or (ii) the date on which  
       
   32   

all of the holders of Redemption Shares registered thereunder may sell such Redemption Shares without registration under the Securities Act pursuant to Rule
144(k) under the Securities Act or any other applicable provision of the Securities Act. HHTI further agrees to supplement or make amendments to the Shelf Registration, if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the
registration form utilized by HHTI or by the Securities Act or rules and regulations thereunder for the Shelf Registration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if for any reason the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration is delayed or suspended or
ceases to be available for sales of Redemption Shares thereunder, the Shelf Registration period shall be extended by the aggregate number of days of such delays, suspension or unavailability.      (b) Registration and Qualification Procedures. HHTI is required by the provisions of Section 8.06(a) hereof to use its commercially reasonable best
efforts to have a Shelf Registration relating to the Redemption Shares declared effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable after the filing of such Shelf Registration. Accordingly, HHTI, as soon as practical after the filing of such
Shelf Registration, shall with respect to the Redemption Shares first eligible for redemption on such date:      (i) prepare and file with the
Commission a registration statement, including amendments thereof and supplements relating thereto, with respect to such Redemption Shares;      (ii) use its commercially reasonable best efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective by the Commission;      (iii) use its commercially reasonable best efforts to keep the registration statement effective and the related prospectus current throughout the Shelf Registration period; provided, however, that HHTI shall have no obligation to file any
amendment or supplement at its own expense or the Partnership s expense more than ninety (90) days after the effective date of the registration statement;      (iv) furnish to each holder of such Redemption Shares such numbers of copies of prospectuses, and supplements or amendments thereto, and such other documents as such holder reasonably requests;      (v) register or qualify such Redemption Shares covered by the registration statement under the securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions within
the United States, if required, as any holder of the such Redemption Shares shall reasonably request, and do such other reasonable acts and things as may be required of it to enable such holders to consummate the sale or other disposition in such
jurisdictions of such Redemption Shares; provided, however, that HHTI shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or consent to a general and unlimited service or process in any jurisdictions in which it would not otherwise be
required to be qualified or so consent or (ii) qualify as a dealer in securities; and      (vi) otherwise use its commercially reasonable
best efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and make available to its  
       
   33   

shareholders as soon as reasonably practicable, but not later than sixteen (16) months after the effective date of the Shelf Registration, an earnings
statement covering a period of at least twelve (12) months beginning after the effective date of the Shelf Registration, which earnings statement shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act.      (c) Allocation of Expenses. The Partnership shall pay all expenses in connection with the Shelf Registration, including without limitation (i) all
expenses incident to filing with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., (ii) registration fees, (iii) printing expenses, (iv) accounting and legal fees and expenses, except to the extent holders of Redemption Shares
elect to engage accountants or attorneys in addition to the accountants and attorneys engaged by HHTI, (v) accounting expenses incident to or required by any such registration or qualification and (vi) expenses of complying with the
securities or blue sky laws of any jurisdictions in connection with such registration or qualification; provided, however, the Partnership shall not be liable for (A) any discounts or commissions to any underwriter or broker attributable to the
sale of Redemption Shares, or (B) any fees or expenses incurred by holders of Redemption Shares in connection with such registration which, according to the written instructions of any regulatory authority, the Partnership is not permitted to
pay.      (d) Indemnification.      (i) In connection with the Shelf Registration, HHTI and the Partnership agree to indemnify each holder of Redemption Shares within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act, against all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and
expenses (including reasonable costs of investigation) caused by any untrue, or alleged untrue, statement of a material fact contained in the Shelf Registration, preliminary prospectus or prospectus (as amended or supplemented if HHTI shall have
furnished any amendments or supplements thereto) or caused by any omission, or alleged omission, to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except insofar as such
losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are caused by any untrue statement, alleged untrue statement, omission or alleged omission based upon information furnished to HHTI by or on behalf of the holder of Redemption Shares expressly for use
therein. HHTI and each officer, director and controlling person of HHTI shall be indemnified by each holder of Redemption Shares covered by the Shelf Registration for all such losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses (including reasonable
costs of investigation) caused by any such untrue, or alleged untrue, statement or any such omission, or alleged omission, based upon information furnished to HHTI expressly for use therein by or on behalf of the holder.      (ii) Promptly upon receipt by a party indemnified under this Section 8.06(d) of notice of the commencement of any action against such indemnified
party in respect of which indemnity or reimbursement may be sought against any indemnifying party under this Section 8.06(d), such indemnified party shall notify HHTI in writing of the commencement of such action, but the failure to so notify
HHTI shall not relieve it of any liability which it may have to any indemnified party otherwise than under this Section 8.06(d) unless such failure shall materially adversely affect the defense of such action. In case notice of commencement of
any such action shall be given to HHTI as above provided, HHTI shall be  
       
   34   

entitled to participate in and, to the extent it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense of such action
at its own expense, with counsel chosen by it and reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party. The indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such action and participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and
expenses of such counsel shall be paid by the indemnified party unless (i) HHTI or the Partnership agrees to pay the same, (ii) HHTI fails to assume the defense of such action with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party
or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) have been advised by counsel selected by HHTI that representation of such indemnified party and HHTI by the same counsel would be inappropriate under applicable
standards of professional conduct (in which case HHTI shall not have the right to assume the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party). No indemnifying party shall be liable for any settlement entered into without its consent.
     (e) Contribution.      (i) If
for any reason the indemnification provisions contemplated by Section 8.06(d) are either unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then the
party that would otherwise be required to provide indemnification or the indemnifying party (in either case, for purposes of this Section 8.06(e), the  Indemnifying Party ) in respect of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities,
shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by the party that would otherwise be entitled to indemnification or the indemnified party (in either case, for purposes of this Section 8.06(e), the  Indemnified Party ) as a result of
such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expense, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault
of the Indemnifying Party and Indemnified Party shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact related to
information supplied by the Indemnifying Party or Indemnified Party, and the parties  relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a
result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party. In no event shall any holder of Redemption Shares covered by the
Shelf Registration be required to contribute an amount greater than the dollar amount of the proceeds received by such holder from the sale of Redemption Shares pursuant to the sale of Redemption Shares giving rise to the liability.      (ii) The parties hereto agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8.06(e) were determined by pro rata
allocation (even if the holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. No person or entity
determined to have committed a fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person or entity who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
        
   35   

(iii) The contribution provided for in this Section 8.06(e) shall survive the termination of this
Agreement and shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Indemnified Party.      (f)
Listing on Securities Exchange. If HHTI shall list or maintain the listing of any shares of Common Stock on any securities exchange or national market system, it will at its expense list thereon, maintain and, when necessary, increase such listing
to include the Redemption Shares.      (g) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the terms of any separate written agreement
between the Partnership and a Partner pertaining to shelf registration or other registration rights shall supersede the terms of this Section 8.06.      8.07 Outside Activities of Limited Partners. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or as otherwise agreed to by the Partners, any Limited Partner or its Affiliate may engage in or possess an interest in other
business ventures of every nature and description, independently or with others, including, but not limited to, enterprises engaged in the same business as the Partnership, and neither the Partnership nor the other Partners shall have any right by
virtue of this Agreement in or to such independent ventures or to the income or profits derived therefrom.      ARTICLE IX      TRANSFERS OF PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS      9.01
Purchase for Investment.      (a) Each Limited Partner hereby represents and warrants to the General Partner and to the Partnership that the
acquisition of his Partnership Interest is made as a principal for his account for investment purposes only and not with a view to the resale or distribution of such Partnership Interest.      (b) Each Limited Partner agrees that he will not sell, assign or otherwise transfer his Partnership Interest or any fraction thereof, whether voluntarily
or by operation of law or at judicial sale or otherwise, to any Person who does not make the representations and warranties to the General Partner set forth in Section 9.01(a) above and similarly agree not to sell, assign or transfer such
Partnership Interest or fraction thereof to any Person who does not similarly represent, warrant and agree.      9.02 Restrictions on Transfer
of Limited Partnership Interests.      (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 9.02(d) hereof, no Limited Partner may offer, sell,
assign, hypothecate, pledge or otherwise transfer his Limited Partnership Interest, in whole or in part, whether voluntarily or by operation of law or at judicial sale or  
       
   36   

otherwise (collectively, a  Transfer ) without the written consent of the General Partner, which consent may be withheld in the sole discretion of
the General Partner. The General Partner may require, as a condition of any Transfer, that the transferor assume all costs incurred by the Partnership in connection therewith.      (b) No Limited Partner may effect a Transfer of his Limited Partnership Interest, in whole or in part, if, in the opinion of legal counsel for the
Partnership, such proposed Transfer would require the registration of the Limited Partnership Interest under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or would otherwise violate any applicable federal or state securities or  Blue Sky  law
(including investment suitability standards).      (c) No transfer by a Limited Partner of his Partnership Units, in whole or in part, may be
made to any Person if (i) in the opinion of legal counsel for the Partnership, the transfer would result in the Partnership s being treated as an association taxable as a corporation (other than a qualified REIT subsidiary within the
meaning of Section 856(i) of the Code), or (ii) such transfer is effectuated through an  established securities market  or a  secondary market  (or the substantial equivalent thereof) within the meaning of
Section 7704 of the Code.      (d) Section 9.02(a) shall not apply to the following transactions, except that the General Partner may
require that the transferor assume all costs incurred by the Partnership in connection therewith:      (i) any Transfer by a Limited Partner
pursuant to the exercise of its Redemption Right under Section 8.05 hereof or any separate written agreement between the Partnership and a Partner relating to a redemption right;      (ii) any Transfer by a Limited Partner that is a corporation or other business entity to any of its Affiliates or subsidiaries or to any successor in
interest of such Limited Partner; or      (iii) any donative Transfer by an individual Limited Partner to his immediate family members or any
trust in which the individual or his immediate family members own, collectively, 100% of the beneficial interests. For purposes of this Section 9.02(d)(iii), the term  immediate family member  shall be deemed to include only an
individual Limited Partner s spouse children and grandchildren.      (e) Any Transfer in contravention of any of the provisions of this
Article IX shall be void and ineffectual and shall not be binding upon, or recognized by, the Partnership.      9.03 Admission of Substitute
Limited Partner.      (a) Subject to the other provisions of this Article IX, an assignee of the Limited Partnership Interest of a Limited
Partner (which shall be understood to include any purchaser, transferee, donee, or other recipient of any disposition of such Limited Partnership Interest) shall be deemed admitted as a Limited Partner of the Partnership only upon the satisfactory
completion of the following:         
   37   

(i) The assignee shall have accepted and agreed to be bound by the terms and provisions of this
Agreement by executing a counterpart or an amendment thereof, including a revise Exhibit A, and such other documents or instruments as the General Partner may require in order to effect the admission of such Person as a Limited Partner.   
  (ii) To the extent required, an amended Certificate evidencing the admission of such Person as a Limited Partner shall have been signed, acknowledged
and filed for record in accordance with the Act.      (iii) The assignee shall have delivered a letter containing the representation set forth
in Section 9.01(a) hereof and the agreement set forth in Section 9.01(b) hereof.      (iv) If the assignee is a corporation,
partnership, limited liability company or trust, the assignee shall have provided the General Partner with evidence satisfactory to counsel for the Partnership of the assignee s authority to become a Limited Partner under the terms and
provisions of this Agreement.      (v) The assignee shall have executed a power of attorney containing the terms and provisions set forth in
Section 8.02 hereof.      (vi) The assignee shall have paid all reasonable legal fees of the Partnership and the General Partner and
filing and publication costs in connection with his substitution as a Limited Partner.      (vii) The assignee has obtained the prior written
consent of General Partner to its admission as a Substitute Limited Partner, which consent may be given or denied in the exercise of General Partner s sole and absolute discretion.      (b) For the purpose of allocating profits and losses and distributing cash received by the Partnership, a Substitute Limited Partner shall be treated as
having become, and appearing in the records of the Partnership as, a Partner upon the filing of the Certificate described in Section 9.03(a)(ii) hereof or, if no such filing is required, the later of the date specified in the transfer documents
or the date on which the General Partner has received all necessary instruments of transfer and substitution.      (c) The General Partner
shall cooperate with the Person seeking to become a Substitute Limited Partner by preparing the documentation required by this Section and making all official filings and publications. The Partnership shall take all such action as promptly as
practicable after the satisfaction of the conditions in this Article IX to the admission of such Person as a Limited Partner of the Partnership.         
   38   

9.04 Rights of Assignees of Partnership Interests.      (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 9.01 and 9.02 hereof, except as required by operation of law, the Partnership shall not be obligated for any
purposes whatsoever to recognize the assignment by any Limited Partner of his Partnership Interest until the Partnership has received notice thereof.      (b) Any Person who is the assignee of all or any portion of a Limited Partner s Partnership Interest, but does not become a Substitute Limited Partner and desires to make a further assignment of such Limited
Partnership Interest, shall be subject to all of the provisions to this Article IX to the same extent and in the same manner as any Limited Partner desiring to make an assignment of his Limited Partnership Interest.      9.05 Effect of Bankruptcy, Death, Incompetence or Termination of a Limited Partner. The occurrence of an Event of Bankruptcy as to a Limited Partner, the
death of a Limited Partner or a final adjudication that a Limited Partner is incompetent (which term shall include, but not be limited to, insanity) shall not cause the termination or dissolution of the Partnership, and the business of the
Partnership shall continue if an order for relief in a bankruptcy proceeding is entered against a Limited Partner, the trustee or receiver of his estate or, if he dies, his executor, administrator or trustee, or, if he is finally adjudicated
incompetent, his committee, guardian or conservator, shall have the rights of such Limited Partner for the purpose of settling or managing his estate property and such power as the bankrupt, deceased or incompetent Limited Partner possessed to
assign all or any part of his Partnership Interest and to join with the assignee in satisfying conditions precedent to the admission of the assignee as a Substitute Limited Partner.      9.06 Joint Ownership of Interests. A Partnership Interest may be acquired by two individuals as joint tenants with right of survivorship, provided that
such individuals either are married or are related and share the same home as tenants in common. The written consent or vote of both owners of any such jointly held Partnership Interest shall be required to constitute the action of the owners of
such Partnership Interest; provided, however, that the written consent of only one joint owner will be required if the Partnership has been provided with evidence satisfactory to the counsel for the Partnership that the actions of a single joint
owner can bind both owners under the applicable laws of the state of residence of such joint owners. Upon the death of one owner of a Partnership Interest held in a joint tenancy with a right of survivorship, the Partnership Interest shall become
owned solely by the survivor as a Limited Partner and not as an assignee. The Partnership need not recognize the death of one of the owners of a jointly-held Partnership Interest until it shall have received notice of such death. Upon notice to the
General Partner from either owner, the General Partner shall cause the Partnership Interest to be divided into two equal Partnership Interests, which shall thereafter be owned separately by each of the former owners.         
   39   

ARTICLE X       BOOKS AND RECORDS; ACCOUNTING; TAX MATTERS       10.01 Books and Records. At all times during the
continuance of the Partnership the Partners shall keep or cause to be kept at the Partnership s specified office true and complete books of account in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, including: (a) a current list
of the full name and last known business address of each Partner, (b) a copy of the Certificate of Limited Partnership and all certificates of amendment thereto, (c) copies of the Partnership s federal, state and local income tax
returns and reports, (d) copies of the Agreement and any financial statements of the Partnership for the three most recent years and (e) all documents and information required under the Act. Any Partner or his duly authorized
representative, upon paying the cost of collection, duplication and mailing, shall be entitled to inspect or copy such records during ordinary business hours.      10.02 Custody of Partnership Funds; Bank Accounts.      (a) All funds of the Partnership not otherwise invested
shall be deposited in one or more accounts maintained in such banking or brokerage institutions as the General Partner shall determine, and withdrawals shall be made only on such signature or signatures as the General Partner may, from time to time,
determine.      (b) All deposits and other funds not needed in the operation of the business of the Partnership may be invested by the General
Partner in investment grade instruments (or investment companies whose portfolio consists primarily thereof), government obligations, certificates of deposit, bankers  acceptances and municipal notes and bonds. The funds of the Partnership
shall not be commingled with the funds of any other Person except for such commingling as may necessarily result from an investment in those investment companies permitted by this Section 10.02(b).      10.03 Fiscal and Taxable Year. The fiscal and taxable year of the Partnership shall be the calendar year.      10.04 Annual Tax Information and Report. Within 75 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Partnership, the General Partner shall furnish to each
person who was a Limited Partner at any time during such year the tax information necessary to file such Limited Partner s individual tax returns as shall be reasonably required by law.      10.05 Tax Matters Partner; Tax Elections; Special Basis Adjustments.      (a) The General Partner shall be the Tax Matters Partner of the Partnership within the meaning of Section 6231(a)(7) of the Code. As Tax Matters Partner, the General Partner shall have the right and obligation to
take all actions authorized and required, respectively, by the Code for the Tax Matters Partner subject to Section 5.01(f) of this Agreement. The General Partner shall have the right to retain professional assistance in respect  
       
   40   

of any audit of the Partnership by the Service and all out-of-pocket expenses and fees incurred by the General Partner on behalf of the Partnership as Tax
Matters Partner shall constitute Partnership expenses. In the event the General Partner receives notice of a final partnership adjustment under Section 6223(a)(2) of the Code, the General Partner shall either (i) file a court petition for
judicial review of such final adjustment within the period provided under Section 6226(a) of the Code, a copy of which petition shall be mailed to all Limited Partners on the date such petition is filed, or (ii) mail a written notice to
all Limited Partners, within such period, that describes the General Partner s reasons for determining not to file such a petition.      (b) All elections required or permitted to be made by the Partnership under the Code shall be made by the General Partner in its sole discretion.      (c) In the event of a transfer of all or any part of the Partnership Interest of any Partner, the Partnership, at the option of the General Partner, may elect pursuant to Section 754 of the Code to adjust the
basis of the Properties. Notwithstanding anything contained in Article IV of this Agreement, any adjustments made pursuant to Section 754 shall affect only the successor in interest to the transferring Partner and in no event shall be taken
into account in establishing, maintaining or computing Capital Accounts for the other Partners for any purpose under this Agreement. Each Partner will furnish the Partnership with all information necessary to give effect to such election.
     10.06 Reports to Limited Partners.      (a) The books of the Partnership shall be audited annually as of the end of each fiscal year of the Partnership by accountants selected by the General Partner, who shall be the same accountants responsible for the examination of the General
Partner s books. The General Partner shall determine and prepare an annual balance sheet, a statement of partners  capital as of the end of such year, as well as statements of cash flow and income, all in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and accompanied by an independent auditor s report (collectively, the  Financial Statements ), together with all supplementary schedules and information prepared by the accountants related thereto. As a note to
such Financial Statements, the General Partner shall prepare a schedule of all loans to the Partnership. Such schedule shall demonstrate that loans have been made, used, carried on the books of the Partnership (and repaid, if applicable) in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. Within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the General Partner shall transmit the Financial Statements to the Limited Partners. The General Partner also shall prepare quarterly unreviewed
Financial Statements and shall transmit such statements to the Limited Partners within 45 days of the end of each fiscal quarter of the Partnership.      (b) Any Partner shall further have the right to a private audit of the books and records of the Partnership, provided such audit is made for Partnership purposes, at the expense of the Partner desiring it and is made
during normal business hours.         
   41   

ARTICLE XI       AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT; MERGER; NOTICE       11.01 Amendment of Agreement; Merger. The General
Partner s consent shall be required for any amendment to the Agreement or any merger, consolidation or combination of the Partnership. The General Partner, without the consent of the Limited Partners, may amend this Agreement in any respect or
cause the Partnership to merge, consolidate or combine with or into any other partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or corporation as contemplated in Section 7.01(c) or (d) hereof; provided, however, that:   
  A. the following amendments and any other such merger, consolidation or combination of the Partnership (a  Merger ) shall require the consent
of Limited Partners (other than HHTI or any Subsidiary of the HHTI) holding more than 50% of the Percentage Interests of the Limited Partners (other than HHTI or any Subsidiary of HHTI):      (i) any amendment affecting the operation of the Conversion Factor or the Redemption Right (except as provided in Section 7.01(c)) in a manner
adverse to the Limited Partners;      (ii) any amendment that would adversely affect the rights of the Limited Partners to receive the
distributions payable to them hereunder, other than with respect to the issuance of additional Partnership Units pursuant to Section 4.02;      (iii) any amendment that would alter the Partnership s allocations of Profit and Loss to the Limited Partners, other than with respect to the issuance of additional Partnership Units pursuant to Section 4.02; or      (iv) any amendment to this Article XI.      B.
The consent of each Limited Partner shall be required for any amendment that would impose on the Limited Partners any obligation to make additional Capital Contributions to the Partnership.      11.02 Notice to Limited Partners. The General Partner shall notify the Limited Partners of the substance of any amendment or Merger requiring the consent
of the Limited Partners pursuant to Section 11.01 at least twenty (20) days prior to the effective date of such amendment or Merger.         
   42   

ARTICLE XII       GENERAL PROVISIONS       12.01 Notices. All communications required or permitted under this Agreement
shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when delivered personally or upon deposit in the United States mail, registered, postage prepaid return receipt requested, to the Partners at the addresses set forth in Exhibit A attached
hereto; provided, however, that any Partner may specify a different address by notifying the General Partner in writing of such different address. Notices to the Partnership shall be delivered at or mailed to its specified office.      12.02 Survival of Rights. Subject to the provisions hereof limiting transfers, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
Partners and the Partnership and their respective legal representatives, successors, transferees and assigns.      12.03 Additional Documents.
Each Partner agrees to perform all further acts and execute, swear to, acknowledge and deliver all further documents which may be reasonable, necessary, appropriate or desirable to carry out the provisions of this Agreement or the Act.   
  12.04 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared illegal, invalid, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, then such provision
shall be deemed to be severable from this Agreement (to the extent permitted by law) and in any event such illegality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remainder hereof.      12.05 Entire Agreement. This Agreement and exhibits attached hereto constitute the entire Agreement of the Partners and supersede all prior written
agreements and prior and contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof.      12.06
Pronouns and Plurals. When the context in which words are used in the Agreement indicates that such is the intent, words in the singular number shall include the plural and the masculine gender shall include the neuter or female gender as the
context may require.      12.07 Headings. The Article headings or sections in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be used in
construing the scope of this Agreement or any particular Article.      12.08 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original copy and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument binding on all parties hereto, notwithstanding that all parties shall not have signed the same counterpart.
     12.09 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.
        
   43   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-21.0>
 4
 dex210.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES

Subsidiaries 

EXHIBIT 21.0        LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES       Supertel Hospitality, Inc. owns, directly or indirectly, 100% of the voting securities, partnership interests or
limited liability company interests of the entities listed below (unless otherwise indicated).       

Subsidiary    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation    
 
    Supertel Hospitality REIT Trust   
      
  Maryland   

E P REIT Trust   
      
  Maryland   

TRS Leasing, Inc.   
      
  Virginia   

Supertel Hospitality Management, Inc.   
      
  Maryland   

Supertel Limited Partnership (SLP) (96%)   
      
  Virginia   

E P Financing Limited Partnership   
      
  Maryland   

Solomons GP, LLC (SGLLC) (100% owned by SLP)   
      
  Delaware   

Solomons Beacon Inn Limited Partnership (1%; 99% owned by SGLLC)   
      
  Maryland   

TRS Subsidiary, LLC   
      
  Delaware   

SPPR Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

SPPR   Hotels, LLC (1%; 99% owned by SLP)   
      
  Delaware   

SPPR   South Bend, LLC (100% owned by SLP)   
      
  Delaware   

SPPR TRS Subsidiary, LLC   
      
  Delaware   

</EX-21.0>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Consent of KPMG LLP 

EXHIBIT 23.1        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors
     Supertel Hospitality, Inc.:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form S-3 (File No. 333-54270) and Form S-1 (File No. 333-129736) of Supertel Hospitality, Inc. of our report dated March 30, 2006, with respect to the
consolidated balance sheets of Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders  equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2005 and the related financial statement schedule III, which report appears in the December 31, 2005 annual report on Form 10-K of Supertel Hospitality, Inc.      KPMG LLP      Omaha, Nebraska      March 30, 2006   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CEO Certification 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Paul J. Schulte, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 of Supertel Hospitality, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:        (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report, based on such evaluation; and      (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize,
and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

March 30, 2006  
      
    /s/ Paul J. Schulte    

Paul J. Schulte   

President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CFO Certification 

Exhibit 31.2       I, Donavon A. Heimes, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 of Supertel Hospitality, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:        (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report, based on such evaluation; and      (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize,
and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.       

March 30, 2006  
      
    /s/ Donavon A. Heimes    

Donavon A. Heimes   

Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CEO AND CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CEO and CFO Certification 

Exhibit 32.1        Certification Pursuant to        18 U.S.C. Section 1350,        as Adopted Pursuant to        Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of Supertel Hospitality, Inc., on
Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Report ), I, Paul J. Schulte, President and Chief Executive Officer of Supertel Hospitality, Inc., certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Supertel Hospitality, Inc. at the dates and
for the periods indicated.         

March 30, 2006  
      
    /s/ Paul J. Schulte    

Paul J. Schulte   

President and Chief Executive Officer   
     Certification Pursuant to        18 U.S.C. Section 1350,        as Adopted Pursuant to        Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of Supertel Hospitality, Inc., on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Report ), I, Donavon A.
Heimes, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, and Secretary of Supertel Hospitality, Inc., certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and         

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Supertel Hospitality, Inc. at the dates and
for the periods indicated.         

March 30, 2006  
      
    /s/ Donavon A. Heimes    

Donavon A. Heimes   

Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-99.1>
 9
 dex991.htm
 UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Data 

Exhibit 99.1        UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL DATA       The following unaudited pro forma
financial data gives effect to our acquisition in November 2005 of 6 hotels from Independent Property Operators of America, LLC.      The
unaudited pro forma financial statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 gives effect to the transaction as if it had occurred as of January 1, 2005.      The unaudited pro forma financial data and related notes are presented for informational purposes only and do not purport to represent what our results
of operations would actually have been if the transactions had in fact occurred on the dates discussed above. They also do not project or forecast our results of operations for any future date or period.      We believe that the pro forma information is useful to better understand the ongoing operations and financial performance during the periods presented.
     The unaudited pro forma financial data should be read together with our historical consolidated and combined financial statements and
related notes included elsewhere in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and with the information set forth therein under  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.  The pro forma adjustments are based on available information and upon assumptions that we believe are reasonable; however, we cannot assure you that the actual results will not differ from the pro forma information in material and
adverse ways.   

Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations (Unaudited)        (In thousands)
       For the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2005        
    See accompanying notes to Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations   

Supertel Hospitality, Inc. and Subsidiaries        Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations        for the
Year Ended December 31, 2005        (Unaudited)       (dollar amounts are in thousands, except per share amounts)      The pro forma statement of operations reflects the acquisition
of six hotels from Independent Operators of America, LLC. The information presented represents the activity for these acquired properties from and including January 1, for the year presented to, but not including, the date of our acquisition.

(a)  
  Reflects the operations of the six hotels using unaudited financial statements obtained from the sellers for the period beginning January 1, 2005, to but not including, the
date of our acquisition and adjusting those numbers for specific verifiable and continuing changes in operating expenses.         

(i)  
  To reflect the cost reductions resulting from the elimination of an excess administrative position.     

(ii)  
  The company s insurance coverage for the six hotels would cost less than that previously charged to the properties by the sellers.     

(iii)  
  To increase the cost of the franchise fees by .25% in accordance with new franchise agreements.         

(b)  
  To reflect pro forma depreciation and amortization based on the depreciable basis of the company s actual acquisition cost.         

</EX-99.1>

