<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_888471_0001104659-06-021139_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1300118</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>144481</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>846802</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>26</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021139.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331135452
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021139
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			NESTOR PARTNERS
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000888471
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	 [6221]
		IRS NUMBER:				222149317
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-50725
		FILM NUMBER:		06727476

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		MILLBURN RIDGEFIELD
		STREET 2:		441 W PUTNAM AVE
		CITY:			GREENWICH
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06830
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2036257554

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		MILLBURN RIDGEFIELD
		STREET 2:		411 W PUTNAM AVE
		CITY:			GREENWICH
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06830

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 VMqWR1p0h2ua8ONeVCItWjQMGKe4LeGr5uvdjwccYsHn+XatY4WEQyc9tSC5caif
 IjGyJqrkDzdkOOOHVti9LQ==

 0001104659-06-021139.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-2168_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

Annual Report Pursuant to
Section 13 or 15(d) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934   

For the Fiscal Year Ended:
December 31, 2005   

or   

o      Transition Report Pursuant to Section
13 or 15(d) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934   

Commission File Number: 000-50725   

NESTOR PARTNERS   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

New Jersey   

22-2149317   

(State or other jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or organization)  

Identification No.)  

c/o MILLBURN RIDGEFIELD CORPORATION   

   411 West Putnam Avenue   

   Greenwich, Connecticut  06830   

  (Address of principal executive offices)  

Registrant s telephone
number, including area code:     (203) 625-7554    

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     None    

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)
of the Act:     Limited Partnership
Interests    

  (Title of Class)  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes   o     No      

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes   o    No     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.Yes         No   o  

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporation by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one):  

Large accelerated filer
    o  

Accelerated Filer   o  

Non-accelerated filer      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Act). Yes   o     No      

State the aggregate market value of the voting and
non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the
price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked
price of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrant s
most recently completed second fiscal quarter.  

Not applicable.  

Documents Incorporated by Reference  

Registrant s Financial
Statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 with Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, the annual report to security
holders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, is incorporated by
reference into Part II Item 8 and Part IV hereof and filed as an exhibit
herewith.  

PART I  

Item 1.    Business   

(a)    General development of business   

Nestor Partners (the  Partnership ) is a limited
partnership organized December 13, 1976 under the New Jersey Uniform Limited
Partnership Act. The general partner of the Partnership is Millburn Ridgefield
Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  General Partner ).  

The Partnership s business is trading a diversified
portfolio of futures, forward and related option contracts on currencies,
metals, financial instruments, stock indices, energy and agricultural commodities.
Approximately 30%-45% of the Partnership s trading, measured by the General
Partner s assessment of risk, currently takes place in the currency markets. The
Partnership began its trading activities in February 1977. All trading
decisions are made by the General Partner.  

The General Partner was organized in May 1982 to
manage discretionary accounts in futures and forward markets. It is the
corporate successor to a futures trading and advisory organization which has
been continuously managing assets in the currency and futures markets using
quantitative, systematic techniques since 1971. The General Partner has been
registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ) as a  commodity
pool operator  since September 13, 1984 and as a  commodity trading advisor 
since July 1, 1982 and is a member of National Futures Association. The
Millburn Corporation, an affiliate of the General Partner, performs certain
accounting, administrative and operating functions for the Partnership and
other commodity pools and investment partnerships managed by the General
Partner.  

As of December 31, 2005, the aggregate net asset value
of the Partnership was $170,951,921. The value at December 31, 2005 of a
limited partner s initial $1,000 investment in the Partnership on February 1,
1977 would be $40,681.79, based on the actual rate of return a limited partner s
investment in the Partnership would have recognized, net of the highest charges
applicable to a limited partner, during each month in the calculation period
from February 1977 to December 31, 2005.  

The Partnership s fiscal year ends on December 31.  

The Partnership will terminate on October 31, 2017 or
upon the prior withdrawal, insolvency or dissolution of the General Partner or
occurrence of any event legally requiring termination.  

The
Partnership is not a registered investment company or mutual fund. Accordingly,
investors in the Partnership do not have the protections afforded by the
Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.  

(b)    Financial information about industry segments   

The
Partnership s business constitutes only one segment, i.e., a speculative
commodity pool. The Partnership does not engage in sales of goods and services.
Financial information regarding the Partnership s business is set forth in Item
6  Selected Financial Data  and in the Partnership s Financial Statements
included as Exhibit 13.01 to this report.  

(c)    Narrative description of business   

The Partnership engages in the speculative trading of
futures, options on futures, and forward contracts. The Partnership s sole
trading adviser is the General Partner. The Partnership trades, pursuant to the
General Partner s Diversified Portfolio, in the agricultural, metals, energy,
interest rate and stock index futures and futures options markets and in the
currency markets, trading primarily forward contracts in the interbank market. The  

2  

objective of the General Partner s trading method is
to participate in all major sustained price moves in the markets traded. The
General Partner s approach is medium-term to long-term in nature. The General
Partner makes trading decisions pursuant to its trading method, which includes
technical trend analysis, certain non-trend-following technical systems, and
money management principles, which may be revised from time to time.  

The General Partner is engaged in an ongoing research
effort to improve its trading methods and to apply its quantitative analytic
expertise to new financial products.  

Successful systematic futures trading depends on two
factors;  development and selection of
the trading systems used in each market, and allocation of portfolio risk among
the markets available for trading.  

Market environments change over time, and particular
systems may perform well in one environment but poorly in another. Likewise,
portfolio sectors and individual markets go through periods where systematic
trading is very profitable and other periods where no system makes any money.  

The goal of the General Partner s research has been to
develop and select a mix of systems in each market and allocate risk across a
wide array of markets, so as to contain overall portfolio risk in the targeted
range, while allowing exposure to profitable trend opportunities. Over the last
30 years, the General Partner has developed hundreds of trading systems. These
intermediate- to long-term trading systems generate buy or sell decisions in a
particular market based on the direction of price movements in the market.  

Systems can be materially different   better in some
periods and worse in others. The main distinguishing features are time-frame
over which systems work (intra-day to long-term), the type of data fed into
them (granularity [ticks to weeks/months], type [market or economic
statistics], source [cash, futures or options markets]), and the objective of
the system (profiting from trends, trading-ranges or volatility). No single
approach will work all the time. Therefore, the General Partner s objective is
to have several approaches operating at all times. Since the early 1980 s, the
General Partner has selected multiple systems for each market.  

When arriving at the portfolio allocation, the General
Partner seeks maximum diversification subject to liquidity constraints. The
markets traded and allocations are reviewed monthly, although changes may occur
less frequently. The following factors are considered in constructing a
universe of markets to trade for each portfolio:  profitability, correlation of market
performance, liquidity of markets, depth of markets, breadth of markets,
professional judgment, desired diversification and transaction costs. Once the
universe of markets is established, the General Partner s simulation and
optimization techniques help determine which markets to include in the
portfolio. The current allocation to any market in the portfolio does not
exceed 3%.  

Risk is a function of both price level and price
volatility. In attempting to assess market volatility as a means of monitoring
and evaluating risk, the General Partner uses its volatility overlay as a part
of individual market risk management. This system is designed to measure the
risk in the portfolio s position in each market and signals a decrease in
position size when risk increases and an increase in position size when risk
decreases. The General Partner s volatility overlay maintains overall portfolio
risk and distribution of risk across markets within designated ranges. It is
applied to the systematic strategies described above. A secondary benefit of
the volatility overlay can be timely profit taking. Because markets tend to
become more volatile after a profitable trend has been long underway, the
volatility overlay often signals position reductions before trend reversals.  

In
addition to the volatility overlay, the General Partner s risk management
focuses on money management principles applicable to the portfolio as a whole
rather than to individual markets and control of leverage and portfolio
size.  There are, however, no
restrictions on the amount of leverage the General Partner may use at any time.

3  

The
General Partner receives a flat-rate monthly brokerage fee equal to 0.458 of 1%
of the month-end Net Assets (a 5.5% annual rate). The General Partner charges
less than the annual brokerage rate of 5.5% to those subscribers who subscribe
without incurring the selling commission paid by the General Partner, or
subscribe incurring reduced selling commissions paid by the General Partner. These
reductions have no effect on other investors. The General Partner also receives
a profit share equal to 20% of any new trading profit as defined, determined as
of the end of each calendar year. The annual profit share is calculated net of
brokerage fees and administrative expenses.  

The
Partnership pays its administrative expenses, including costs incurred in
connection with the continuing offering of the limited partnership interests ( Interests ),
and any extraordinary expenses which it may incur. The General Partner pays all
the routine costs of executing and clearing the Partnership s trades and all
compensation due to the selling agents.  

UBS
Financial Services Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. and Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner   Smith Inc. act as the futures brokers for the Partnership.
The Partnership executes currency forward trades with several brokers and
banks, including Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated and clears all such
trades with Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, serving as prime broker. The
Partnership pays  bid asked  spreads on its forward trades, as such spreads are
incorporated into the pricing of forward contracts. The General Partner
monitors the Partnership s trades to ensure that the prices it receives are
competitive.  

Each
partner has a capital account, and its initial balance is the amount of his
contribution to the Partnership. There is also a new profit memo account which
is credited with the General Partner s profit share on redeemed Interests and
any excess of the General Partner s profit share over the Partnership s taxable
gains at year-end. The Net Assets of the Partnership are determined monthly,
and any increase or decrease from the end of the preceding month is added to or
subtracted from the accounts (including the new profit memo account) of the
partners in the ratio that each account bears to all accounts. The credits to
the new profit memo account are charged to the accounts of the limited
partners.  

At the end of each fiscal year the Partnership s
taxable capital gain or loss (including gains and losses on open positions in
certain futures and forward contracts which are  marked-to-market  at the end
of the Partnership s fiscal year) and ordinary income and expense are allocated
among the partners for tax purposes, and each partner who is a United States
citizen or resident is required to include on his personal income tax return
his distributive share of such items. Items of operating income such as
interest and items of operating expense such as legal, accounting and filing
fees that accrued during each month will be allocated among the persons who
were partners during each month in the ratio that each partner s capital
account bears to all partners  capital accounts.  

Net capital gain is allocated first to the General
Partner up to the amount of the General Partner s profit share for the year and
then up to the amount of any balance in the new profit memo account. Net
capital gain is next allocated to each partner who has redeemed all or a
portion of his Interests during the year to the extent that the amount received
on redemption exceeds the partner s Tax Basis. A partner s Tax Basis is the
amount paid for the Interests redeemed plus net taxable income less taxable
losses previously allocated to such Interests and less amounts previously
distributed to the partner with respect to the redeemed Interests. Remaining
net capital gain is allocated among the partners whose capital accounts have
increased from their Tax Basis. The allocation to each partner is in the ratio
that his increase bears to all partners  increases. Net capital gain remaining
is allocated to each partner in the ratio that his capital account value bears
to the total capital account value of all partners.  

Net capital loss is allocated first to each limited
partner who has redeemed all or a portion of his Interests during the year to
the extent that the amount the partner s Tax Basis for the Interests redeemed
exceeds the amount received on redemption. Remaining net taxable capital loss
is allocated among the partners whose capital accounts have decreased from
their Tax Basis. The allocation to each partner is in the ratio that his
decrease bears to all partners  decreases. Net capital loss remaining is
allocated to each partner in the ratio that his capital account value bears to
the total capital account value of all partners.  

The Partnership s cash and U.S. Treasury instruments
are used by the Partnership to engage in its trading activities and as reserves
to support that trading. The Partnership s assets deposited with the
Partnership s futures  

4  

brokers as margin are maintained in  customer
segregated funds accounts  or  foreign futures and foreign options secured
amount accounts  and are held in cash, or U.S. Treasury instruments. Partnership
assets not deposited as margin are maintained in bank or brokerage accounts and
are held primarily in bank money market funds or U.S. Treasury instruments.  

The Partnership does not engage in lending (other than
through permitted securities investments). The General Partner does not
anticipate making any distributions of Partnership profits, if any.  

Regulation   

Under
the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (the  CEA ), commodity exchanges and
futures trading are subject to regulation by the CFTC. National Futures
Association ( NFA ), a  registered futures association  under the CEA, is the
only non-exchange self-regulatory organization for futures industry
professionals. The CFTC has delegated to NFA responsibility for the
registration of  commodity trading advisors,   commodity pool operators,   futures
commission merchants,   introducing brokers  and their respective associated
persons and  floor brokers  and  floor traders.   The CEA requires commodity pool operators and
commodity trading advisors, such as the General Partner, and commodity brokers
or futures commission merchants, such as the UBS Financial Services Inc.,
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and Deutsche Bank A.G.,
to be registered and to comply with various reporting and record keeping
requirements. The CFTC may suspend a commodity pool operator s or trading
advisor s registration if it finds that its trading practices tend to disrupt
orderly market conditions or in certain other situations. In the event that the
registration of the General Partner as a commodity pool operator or a commodity
trading advisor were terminated or suspended, the General Partner would be
unable to continue to manage the business of the Partnership. Should the
General Partner s registration be suspended, termination of the Partnership
might result.  

In
addition to such registration requirements, the CFTC and certain commodity
exchanges have established limits on the maximum net long or net short position
which any person may hold or control in particular commodities. Most exchanges
also limit the changes in futures contract prices that may occur during a
single trading day. Currency forward contracts are not subject to regulation by
any United States Government agency.  

(i)   through
(xii) - not applicable.  

(xiii)   the
Partnership has no employees.  

(d)    Financial
information about geographic areas   

The
Partnership does not engage in material operations in foreign countries
(although it does trade from the United States in foreign currency forward
contracts and on foreign futures exchanges), nor is a material portion of its
revenues derived from foreign customers.  

(e)    Available
information   

The
Partnership files quarterly, annual and current reports with the Securities and
Exchange Commission ( SEC ). These reports are available to read and copy at
the SEC s Public Reference Facilities in Washington, D.C. at 450 Fifth Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC s toll free number,
1-800-SEC-0330, for further information. The Partnership does not maintain a
website where these reports are posted. However, the Partnership s filings are
posted on the SEC s website at http://www.sec.gov.  

Item
1A.    Risk Factors   

Risk of Loss    . An investor may incur significant
losses on an investment in the Partnership. The General Partner cannot provide
any assurance that investors will not lose all or substantially all of their
investment.  

Past Performance Records.       Although the General
Partner has significant experience trading customer funds in the futures
markets, and the Partnership itself has traded successfully since inception,    PAST PERFORMANCE     

5   

IS NOT NECESSARILY
INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS.       R    eturns recognized by any given investor are materially
affected by when that investor invested in the Partnership.  

Futures and Forward Contract
Trading Is Volatile    . Trading in the futures and forward markets typically results in
volatile performance. Several occasions in the recent past have witnessed
sudden and major reversals in these markets, resulting in major losses for
traders. The performance record of the General Partner s trading has exhibited
a considerable degree of volatility.  

Highly Leveraged Trading.       The low margin deposits
normally required in futures and forward trading permit an extremely high
degree of leverage. The Partnership may frequently hold positions with a gross
value several times in excess of the Partnership s Net Assets. Consequently, even
a slight movement in the prices of its open positions could result in
significant losses.  

Markets May Be Illiquid or
Disrupted.       Most
United States futures exchanges limit fluctuations in some futures contract
prices during a single day by regulations referred to as  daily limits.   During a single trading day no trades may be
executed in such contracts at prices beyond the daily limit. Once the price of
a futures contract has increased or decreased to the limit point, positions can
be neither taken nor liquidated. Futures prices have occasionally moved to the
daily limit for several consecutive days with little or no trading. Similar
occurrences could prevent the Partnership from promptly liquidating unfavorable
positions and subject the Partnership to substantial losses. Also, the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ) or exchanges may suspend or
limit trading. Trading on non-United States exchanges may also be subject to
price fluctuation limits and are otherwise subject to periods of significant
illiquidity. Trading in the forward currency markets is not subject to daily
limits, although such trading is also subject to periods of significant
illiquidity.  

Failure of Brokerage Firms and
Forward Market Participants.       The Commodity Exchange Act, as
amended (the  CEA ) requires a clearing broker to segregate all funds received
from such broker s customers in respect of futures (but not forward)
transactions from such broker s proprietary funds. If any of the Partnership s
commodity brokers were not to do so to the full extent required by law, or in
the event of a substantial default by one or more of such broker s other
customers, the assets of the Partnership might not be fully protected in the
event of the bankruptcy of such broker. Furthermore, in the event of such a
bankruptcy, the Partnership would be limited to recovering only a   pro rata   share of all available funds segregated on behalf
of the affected commodity broker s combined customer accounts, even though
certain property specifically traceable to the Partnership (for example, United
States Treasury bills or cash deposited by the Partnership with such broker)
was held by such broker. Commodity broker bankruptcies have occurred in which
customers were not able to recover from the broker s estate the full amount of
their funds on deposit with such broker and owing to them. Commodity broker
bankruptcies are not insured by any governmental agency, and investors would
not have the benefit of any protection such as that afforded customers of
bankrupt securities broker-dealers by the Securities Investors Protection
Corporation.  

In respect of its forward trading, the Partnership
will be subject to the risk of the inability or refusal to perform with respect
to such contracts on the part of the principals or agents with or through which
the Partnership trades. Any failure or refusal to discharge their contractual
obligations by the counterparties with which the Partnership deals on the
forward markets, whether due to insolvency, bankruptcy or other causes, could
subject the Partnership to substantial losses. The Partnership will not be
excused from performance under any forward contracts into which it has entered
due to defaults under other forward contracts which in the General Partner s
strategy were to have substantially  covered  the former. The Partnership deals
in the forward markets only with major financial institution counterparties
which the General Partner considers to be creditworthy. However, defaults have
occurred in the forward markets, and the risk of such defaults cannot be
eliminated from the Partnership s trading.  

Certain Special Considerations
Related to Forward Trading.           None of the CFTC, National Futures
Association ( NFA ), futures exchanges or banking authorities currently
regulate forward trading. Because a principal portion of the Partnership s
currency trading takes place in the forward markets, prospective investors must
recognize that much of the Partnership s activity takes place in unregulated
markets rather than on futures exchanges subject to the jurisdiction of the
CFTC or other regulatory bodies. Partnership funds on deposit with the currency
forward counterparties with which the Partnership trades are not protected by
the same segregation requirements imposed on CFTC regulated commodity brokers
in respect of customer funds deposited with them. Although the  

6  

Partnership deals only with major financial
institutions as currency forward counterparties, the insolvency or bankruptcy
of a currency forward counterparty could subject the Partnership to the loss of
its entire deposit with such counterparty. The forward markets are well
established. However, it is impossible to predict how, given certain unusual
market scenarios, the unregulated nature of these markets might affect the
Partnership.  

Trading in Options.       The General Partner has
traded futures and forward options on behalf of the Partnership in the past and
may trade such instruments in the future. Although successful options trading
requires many of the same skills as successful futures and forward trading, the
risks involved are somewhat different. For example, the assessment of near-term
market volatility - which is directly reflected in the price of outstanding
options - can be of much greater significance in trading options than it is in
many long-term futures strategies. The use of options can be extremely
expensive if market volatility is incorrectly predicted.  

Trading on Futures Exchanges
Outside the United States.       The General Partner trades on
futures exchanges outside the United States on behalf of the Partnership. Trading
on such exchanges is not regulated by any United States government agency and
may involve certain risks not applicable to trading on United States exchanges.
For example, some non-U.S. exchanges, in contrast to United States exchanges,
are  principals  markets  similar to the forward markets in which performance
is the responsibility only of the individual member with whom the Partnership
has entered into a futures contract and not of any exchange or clearing
corporation. In such cases, the Partnership will be subject to the risk of the
inability or refusal to perform with respect the individual member with whom
the Partnership has entered into a futures contract. Trading on foreign
exchanges involves the additional risks of expropriation, burdensome or
confiscatory taxation, moratoriums, exchange or investment controls and
political or diplomatic disruptions, each of which might materially adversely
affect the Partnership s trading activities. In trading on foreign exchanges,
the Partnership is also subject to the risk of changes in the exchange rates
between the United States dollar and the currencies in which the foreign
contracts are settled.  

Substantial Charges to
Partnership.       The
Partnership is obligated to pay the General Partner brokerage commissions and
annual operating expenses regardless of whether the Partnership is profitable. (Operating
expenses are limited to 1/4 of 1% per annum of the average month-end Net Assets
of the Partnership.)  In addition, the
General Partner receives, with respect to each Interest, a profit share of 20%
of any increase in Trading Profits over the previous high point in Trading
Profits at the end of each fiscal year. Trading Profits are based upon the
increase in value of each Interest at the end of each fiscal year (or when an
Interest is redeemed) including any unrealized appreciation in open futures and
forward positions. Such appreciation may never be realized by the Partnership.  

Because investors will purchase Interests at different
times they may recognize different amounts of Trading Profits. Each limited
partner will pay a profit share only on Trading Profits applicable to its
Interests. Investors who make multiple investments in the Partnership will
receive separate Interests for purposes of tracking the profit share. As a
result, investors who own multiple Interests may pay a profit share in respect
of some of their Interests even if they experience a loss on an aggregate
basis.  

Forward trading is conducted in a principals  market
in which counterparties buy and sell currencies among each other, including a  bid-ask 
spread in their pricing. Institutions trading in such markets do not pay
brokerage commissions in addition to such spreads. It is not possible to
quantify the  bid-ask  spreads paid by the Partnership in respect of its
currency trading because it is not possible for the Partnership to know what,
if any, profit its counterparty is making on the forward trades into which it
enters. However, these spreads represent a significant execution cost to the
Partnership.  

Trading Decisions Based on
Technical Systems.       Trading decisions of the General Partner are not
determined by analysis of fundamental supply and demand factors, general
economic factors or anticipated world events, but by technical trading systems
involving trend analysis and other factors and the money management principles
developed by the General Partner and its affiliates. The profitability of any
trading system involving technical trend analysis depends upon the occurrence
in the future of significant sustained price moves in at least some of the
markets traded. Without such sustained price moves in at least some of the
markets traded, the General Partner s trend-following systems are unlikely to
produce profits and the Partnership could suffer significant losses.  

7  

Discretionary Aspects of the
General Partner s Strategies    . Although the General Partner applies highly
systematic strategies, these strategies retain certain discretionary aspects. Decisions,
for example, to adjust the size of positions indicated by the systematic
strategies, which futures contracts to trade and method of order entry, require
judgmental input from the General Partner s principals. Discretionary
decision-making may result in the General Partner s making unprofitable trades
in situations when a more wholly systematic approach would not have done so.  

Possible Effects of Technical
Trading Systems.       There
has been, in recent years, a substantial increase in interest in technical
futures trading systems, particularly trend-following systems. As the capital
under the management of trading systems based on the same general principles
increases, an increasing number of traders may attempt to initiate or liquidate
substantial positions at or about the same time as the Partnership, or
otherwise alter historical trading patterns or affect the execution of trades,
to the significant detriment of the Partnership.  

Although the Partnership is as likely to be profitable
as unprofitable in up or down markets, there is some tendency for managed
futures products   particularly those managed by systematic, trend-following
advisors   to perform similarly during the same or approximately the same
periods. Prospective investors must recognize that, irrespective of the skill
and expertise of the General Partner, the success of the Partnership may be
substantially dependent on general market conditions over which the General
Partner has no control.  

In addition, there has been an increase in the use of
trading systems employing counter-trend techniques that attempt to profit from
the wide use of trend following systems by running stop points or otherwise. The
increased use of such techniques could alter trading patterns the General
Partner attempts to exploit to the detriment of the Partnership.  

Changes in Trading Method.       The General Partner may
modify its trading method without approval by or notice to limited partners. Modifications
may include changes in or substitution of technical trading systems, risk
control overlays, money management principles and markets traded and
introduction of non-technical factors and methods of analysis and
non-trend-following technical systems and methods of analysis. The trading
systems to be utilized by the General Partner are proprietary and confidential.  

Possible Effects of Speculative
Position Limits.       The
CFTC and United States exchanges have established limits referred to as  position
limits  on the maximum net long or net short speculative futures position which
any person may hold or control in particular futures contracts. Generally,
banks and dealers do not impose such limits with respect to forward contracts
in currencies. All futures accounts managed by the General Partner and its
affiliates are combined for position limit purposes. With respect to trading in
futures contracts subject to position limits (for example, corn, wheat, cotton,
soybeans, soybean meal and oil), the General Partner may reduce the size of the
positions which would otherwise be taken for the Partnership to avoid exceeding
the limits. If position limits are exceeded by the General Partner in the
opinion of the CFTC or any other regulatory body, exchange or board, the
General Partner will liquidate positions in all accounts under its management,
including the Partnership, as nearly as possible in proportion to respective
amounts of equity in each account to the extent necessary to comply with
applicable position limits.  

Other Clients of the General
Partner and Its Affiliates.       The General Partner manages futures
and forward accounts other than the Partnership, including accounts in which
the General Partner, its principals and employees have significant investments.
The General Partner and its affiliates may manage additional accounts in the
future. It is possible that such accounts may be in competition with the
Partnership for the same or similar positions in the futures and forward
markets. The General Partner intends generally to use similar trading methods
for the Partnership and all other systematic accounts the General Partner and
its affiliates manage. The General Partner will not knowingly or deliberately
use systems for any account that are inferior to systems employed for any other
account or favor any account over any other account. No assurance is given,
however, that the results of the Partnership s trading will be similar to that
of other accounts concurrently managed by the General Partner or its
affiliates.  

Possible Adverse Effects of
Increasing the Assets Managed by the General Partner.     The General Partner has not agreed to
limit the amount of additional equity which it may manage. The rates of return
achieved by trading advisors often tend to degrade as assets under management
increase. There can be no assurance that the  

8  

General Partner s strategies will not be adversely
affected by additional equity, including the Partnership s account, accepted by
the General Partner.  

Dependence on Key Personnel.       Despite the systematic
methods used by the General Partner, it is dependent on the services of a
limited number of key persons. The loss of any such persons could make it more
difficult for the General Partner to continue to manage the Partnership.  

Limited Ability to Liquidate
Investment in Interests.       An investment in an Interest cannot
be immediately liquidated by a limited partner. Interests may be transferred
only under limited circumstances and no market for Interests will exist at any
time. A limited partner can liquidate his investment through redemption of his
Interest. A limited partner may require the Partnership to redeem all or a
portion of his Interest as of the last day of any month on fifteen days 
written notice to the General Partner. Because notices of redemption must be
submitted significantly in advance of the actual redemption date, the value
received upon redemption may differ significantly from the value of the
Interest at the time a decision to redeem is made. Furthermore, because
redemptions are only permitted at month-end, investors are not able to select
the value, or even the approximate value, at which they will redeem their
Interests.  

Conflicts of Interest.       The Partnership will be
subject to a number of actual and potential conflicts of interest. Such
conflicts may include, among other things, the possibility of the General
Partner, a commodity broker for the Partnership or any of their respective
affiliates favoring other customer accounts or their own proprietary trading in
certain respects over that of the Partnership.  

Limited Partners Will Not
Participate in Management.       Purchasers of Interests will not be entitled
to participate in the management of the Partnership or the conduct of its
business. Such authority is vested solely in the General Partner.  

Profits Included in Taxable
Income Whether or Not Cash or Other Property is Distributed.       The Partnership is not
required to make any distributions of cash or other property to the partners. If
the Partnership has taxable income for a fiscal year, such income will be
taxable to limited partners who are U.S. taxpayers in accordance with their
allocable shares of the Partnership s profits, irrespective of the fact that no
cash or other property has been distributed to them. Accordingly, the tax
liability of limited partners for any profits of the Partnership will almost
certainly exceed any distributions received from it.  

Possible Limitation on
Deductibility of  Investment Advisory Fees.        Noncorporate investors may be
required to treat the amount of any incentive profit shares as well as a
portion of the brokerage commissions and other ordinary expenses of the
Partnership, as  investment advisory fees  which may be subject to substantial
restrictions on deductibility for federal income tax purposes. Any such
classification of these amounts could substantially increase the amount of the
Partnership s profits (if any) subject to tax.  

Passive  Losses.      Any income derived from the
Partnership s trading activities will constitute  Portfolio Income  or other
income not from a passive activity, which means that losses resulting from a
limited partner s other passive activities cannot be offset against such
income.  

Possibility of Tax Audit.      There can be no assurance
that the Partnership s tax returns will not be audited by the Internal Revenue
Service or that adjustments to such returns will not be made as a result of
such an audit. If an audit results in an adjustment, limited partners may be
required to pay additional taxes, plus interest and possibly penalties and
additions to tax.  

Possible Changes in the Tax Code.      In recent years, the United
States federal income tax law has undergone repeated and substantial changes, a
number of which have been materially adverse, or potentially materially
adverse, to investment partnerships. It is impossible to predict what the
effect of future changes in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will
be on an investment in the Partnership.  

9  

Statutory Regulation.       Although the
Partnership and the General Partner are subject to regulation by the CFTC, the
Partnership is not registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Investors
are, therefore, not accorded the protection provided by such legislation.  

Future Regulatory and Market
Changes.       The
regulation of the United States commodities markets has undergone substantial
change in recent years, a process which is expected to continue. In addition, a
number of substantial regulatory changes are pending or in progress in certain
foreign markets. The effect of regulatory change on the Partnership is
impossible to predict but could be material and adverse.  

Some concern has been expressed by various
governmental authorities that the impact of speculative pools of capital, such
as the Partnership, on international currency trading is making it
significantly more costly and difficult for central banks and governments to
influence exchange rates. This and similar concerns could lead to pressure to
restrict the access of speculative capital to these markets.  

In addition to regulatory changes, the economic
features of the markets to be traded by the Partnership have undergone, and are
expected to continue to undergo, rapid and substantial changes as new
strategies and instruments have been introduced. Furthermore, the number of
participants, particularly institutional participants, in the futures and
forward markets appears to have expanded substantially. There can be no
assurance as to how the General Partner will perform given the changes to, and
increased competition in, the marketplace.  

Item 2.    Properties   

The
Partnership does not own or use any physical properties in the conduct of its
business. The General Partner or an affiliate perform administrative services
for the Partnership from their offices.  

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings   

The
General Partner is not aware of any pending legal proceedings to which either
the Partnership is a party or to which any of its assets are subject. In
addition there are no pending material legal proceedings involving the General
Partner.  

Item 4.    Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.  

PART II  

Item 5.    Market for the Registrant s Common Equity and
Related Stockholder Matters   

(a)    Market Information .  

There
is no trading market for the Interests, and none is likely to develop. Interests
may be redeemed upon  15 business days 
written notice to the General Partner at their net asset value as of the last
day of any month, subject to certain early redemption charges.  

(b)    Holders .  

As of
December 31, 2005, there were 714 holders of Interests.  

(c)    Dividends .  

No
distributions or dividends have been made on the Interests, and the General
Partner has no present intention to make any.  

10  

(d)    Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans .  

None.  

(e)    Recent
Sales of Unregistered Securities; Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities .  

The
Partnership did not sell any unregistered securities within the past three
years which have not previously been included in the Partnership s Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q or in a Current Report on Form 8-K.  

(f)    Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities .  

Pursuant
to the Partnership s Agreement of Limited Partnership, limited Partners may
withdraw capital from their capital accounts in Partnership as of the end of
each calendar month. The withdrawal of capital by limited partners has no
impact on the value of the capital accounts of other limited partners.  

The
following table summarizes limited partner withdrawals during the fourth
calendar quarter of 2005:  

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data   

The
following is a summary of operations for the fiscal years 2005, 2004, 2003,
2002 and 2001 and total assets of the Partnership at December 31, 2005, 2004,
2003, 2002 and 2001.  

*From
trading of futures and forward contracts, foreign exchange transactions and
U.S. Treasury obligations  

11  

Item 7.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations   

Reference
is made to  Item 6.  Selected Financial Data   and  Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data .  
The information contained therein is essential to, and should be read in
conjunction with, the following analysis.  

Capital Resources   

Interests
may be offered for sale as of the beginning, and may be redeemed as of the end,
of each month.  

The
amount of capital raised for the Partnership should not have a significant
impact on its operations, as the Partnership has no significant capital
expenditure or working capital requirements other than for monies to pay
trading losses, brokerage commissions and charges. Within broad ranges of
capitalization, the General Partner s trading positions should increase or
decrease in approximate proportion to the size of the Partnership.  

The
Partnership raises additional capital only through the sale of Interests and
capital is increased through trading profits (if any). The Partnership does not
engage in borrowing.  

The
Partnership trades futures, options and forward contracts on interest rates,
commodities, currencies, metals, energy and stock indices. Risk arises from
changes in the value of these contracts (market risk) and the potential
inability of counterparties or brokers to perform under the terms of their
contracts (credit risk). Market risk is generally to be measured by the face
amount of the futures positions acquired and the volatility of the markets
traded. The credit risk from counterparty non-performance associated with these
instruments is the net unrealized gain, if any, on these positions plus the
value of the margin or collateral held by the counterparty. The risks
associated with exchange-traded contracts are generally perceived to be less
than those associated with over-the-counter transactions, because exchanges
typically (but not universally) provide clearinghouse arrangements in which the
collective credit (in some cases limited in amount, in some cases not) of the
members of the exchange is pledged to support the financial integrity of the
exchange. In over-the-counter transactions, on the other hand, traders must
rely solely on the credit of their respective individual counterparties. Margins
which may be subject to loss in the event of a default, are generally required
in exchange trading, and counterparties may require margin or collateral in the
over-the-counter markets.  

The
General Partner has procedures in place to control market risk, although there
can be no assurance that they will, in fact, succeed in doing so. These
procedures primarily focus on (1) real time monitoring of open positions;
(2) diversifying positions among various markets; (3) limiting the
assets committed as margin, generally within a range of 15% to 35% of an
account s Net Assets at exchange minimum margins, (including imputed margins on
forward positions) although the amount committed to margin at any time may be
substantially higher; (4) prohibiting pyramiding (that is, using
unrealized profits in a particular market as margin for additional positions in
the same market); and (5) changing the equity utilized for trading by an
account solely on a controlled periodic basis rather than as an automatic
consequence of an increase in equity resulting from trading profits. The
Partnership controls credit risk by dealing exclusively with large, well
capitalized financial institutions as brokers and counterparties.  

The
financial instruments traded by the Partnership contain varying degrees of
off-balance sheet risk whereby changes in the market values of the futures and
forward contracts or the Partnership s satisfaction of the obligations may
exceed the amount recognized in the statement of financial condition of the Partnership.  

Due to
the nature of the Partnership s business, substantially all its assets are
represented by cash and United States government obligations, while the
Partnership maintains its market exposure through open futures and forward
contract positions.  

12  

The
Partnership s futures contracts are settled by offset and are cleared by the
exchange clearinghouse function. Open futures positions are marked to market
each trading day and the Partnership s trading accounts are debited or credited
accordingly. Options on futures contracts are settled either by offset or by
exercise. If an option on a future is exercised, the Partnership is assigned a
position in the underlying future which is then settled by offset. The
Partnership s spot and forward currency transactions conducted in the interbank
market are settled by netting offsetting positions or payment obligations and
by cash payments.  

The
value of the Partnership s cash and financial instruments is not materially
affected by inflation. Changes in interest rates, which are often associated
with inflation, could cause the value of certain of the Partnership s debt
securities to decline, but only to a limited extent. More important, changes in
interest rates could cause periods of strong up or down market price trends,
during which the Partnership s profit potential generally increases. However,
inflation can also give rise to markets which have numerous short price trends
followed by rapid reversals, markets in which the Partnership is likely to
suffer losses.  

Liquidity   

The
Partnership s assets are generally held as cash or cash equivalents which are
used to margin the Partnership s futures and forward currency positions and
withdrawn, as necessary, to pay redemptions and expenses. Other than potential
market-imposed  limitations on liquidity,
due, for example, to limited open interest in certain futures markets or to
daily price fluctuation limits, which are inherent in the Partnership s futures
and forward trading, the Partnership s assets are highly liquid and are
expected to remain so. During its operations through December 31, 2005, the
Partnership experienced no meaningful periods of illiquidity in any of the
numerous markets traded by the General Partner.  

Critical Accounting Estimates   

The Partnership records its transactions in futures
and forward currency contracts, including related income and expenses, on a
trade date basis. Open futures contracts traded on an exchange are valued at
market, which is based on the closing settlement price on the exchange where
the futures contract is traded by the Partnership on the day with respect to
which Net Assets are being determined. Open forward currency contracts are
recorded at fair value, based on pricing models 
that consider the current market prices ( Spot Prices ) plus the time
value of money ( Forward Points ) and contractual prices of the underlying
financial instruments. The Spot Prices and Forward Points for open forward
currency contracts are generally based on the 3:00 P.M. New York time prices
provided by widely used quotation service providers on the day with respect to
which Net Assets are being determined. The Forward Points from the quotation
service providers are generally in periods of one month, two months, three
months and six months forward while the contractual forward delivery dates for
the foreign currency contracts traded by the Partnership may be in between
these periods.  

The General Partner s policy is to calculate the
Forward Points for each contract being valued by determining the number of days
from the date the forward currency contract is being valued to its maturity
date and then using straight-line interpolation to calculate the valuation of
Forward Points for the applicable forward currency contract. The General
Partner will also compare the calculated price to the forward currency prices
provided by dealers to determine whether the calculated price is fair and
reasonable.  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions, such as accrual of
expenses, that affect the amounts and disclosures reported in the financial
statements. Based on the nature of the business and operations of the
Partnership, the General Partner believes that the estimates utilized in
preparing the Partnership s financial statements are appropriate and
reasonable, however actual results could differ from these estimates. The
estimates used do not provide a range of possible results that would require
the exercise of subjective judgment. The General Partner further believes that,
based on the nature of the business and operations of the Partnership, no other
reasonable assumptions relating to the application of the Partnership s
critical accounting estimates other than those currently used would likely
result in materially different amounts from those reported.  

13  

Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements   

The Partnership does not engage in off-balance sheet
arrangements with other entities.  

Contractual Obligations   

The
Partnership does not enter into any contractual obligations or commercial
commitments to make future payments of a type that would be typical for an
operating company or that would affect its liquidity or capital resources. The
Partnership s sole business is trading futures and forward currency contracts,
both long (contracts to buy) and short (contracts to sell). All such contracts
are settled by offset, not delivery. Substantially all such contacts are for
settlement within four months of the trade date and substantially all such
contracts are held by the Partnership for less than four months before being
offset or rolled over into new contracts with similar maturities. The
Partnership s Financial Statements, included as Exhibit 13.01 to this report,
present a Condensed Schedule of Investments setting forth net unrealized
appreciation (depreciation) of the Partnership s open future and forward
currency contracts, both long and short, at December 31, 2005.  

Results of Operations   

Performance Summary    

The
Partnership s success depends on the General Partner s ability to recognize and
capitalize on trends and other profit opportunities in different sectors of the
world economy. The General Partner s trading methods are confidential, so that
substantially the only information that can be furnished regarding the
Partnership s results of operations is its performance record. Unlike most
operating businesses, general economic or seasonal conditions have no direct
effect on the profit potential of the Partnership, while, at the same time, its
past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. Because of
the speculative nature of its trading, operational or economic trends have
little relevance to the Partnership s results. The General Partner believes,
however, that there are certain market conditions   for example, markets with
strong price trends   in which the Partnership has a better opportunity of
being profitable than in others.  

2005   

During
2005, the Partnership achieved a net realized and unrealized gain of $9,676,626
from its trading operations (including foreign exchange transactions and
translations). Brokerage commissions of $4,802,240 and administrative expenses
of $460,610 were paid or accrued. The Partnership paid a profit share to the
General Partner of $1,140,619. Interest income of $4,819,054 partially offset
the Partnership s expenses resulting in a net gain of $8,092,211. An analysis
of the trading gain (loss) by sector is as follows:  

The Partnership produced
a modest gain for the year. Equity indices were strongly profitable, and to a
lesser extent so were cross rate currency positions, metals, energy and
interest rates. On the other hand, sizable losses resulted from trading dollar
currency positions, and lesser shortfalls came from trading grains, softs, and
livestock.  

14  

International equity
indices were highly profitable in 2005. Following some consolidation early in
the year, non-U.S. equity indexes moved broadly higher through year end. There
were gains from long positions in Asian, European, and South African equity
indices. Solid growth worldwide propelled equities forward despite the headwinds
that came from high energy prices and rising interest rates. Trading of U.S.
stock indexes, which were range-bound for most of 2005, was not profitable,
however.  

Strong growth of
industrial production, especially in China, underpinned demand for metals, and
long positions in copper, zinc and platinum generated gains. Continuing
expansion of money supply worldwide fueled demand for precious metals and long
gold and silver positions were also profitable.  

Energy prices were
volatile, but still moved somewhat higher on balance for the year, and long
positions in crude, heating oil, London gas oil, unleaded gasoline, and
kerosene were slightly profitable. By the end of 2005, however, position sizes
had been reduced significantly.  

Interest rates were quite
volatile during 2005. Early in the year, markets expected continuing declines
in non-U.S. interest rates, and further advances in short term U.S. rates. Later
on, however, interest rates rose rather broadly as the European Central Bank
joined the Federal Reserve in raising official rates, as growth in emerging
economies remained strong, as Japan showed evidence of exiting from its
protracted slump, and as high prices for energy and other commodities induced
inflation fears that periodically roiled markets. In this environment, profits
from long non-U.S. interest rate positions during the first half of 2005 were
largely offset by losses from these positions in the second half. Indeed, by
year end, the portfolio s interest rate positions had been reduced or reversed
from long to short, anticipating higher interest rates.  

Turning to currencies,
cross rate trades based on selling low yield currencies and buying high
interest rate currencies were profitable. In particular, selling yen and buying
the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and British pound was profitable, as was
selling the euro and buying Polish zlotys and Canadian dollars.  

Dollar trading, however,
was unprofitable throughout the year. The U.S. currency was not able to sustain
a trend and exhibited significant volatility, especially during the second half
of 2005. As a result, 14 of the 17 currencies traded versus the dollar
registered losses or no appreciable gain for the year.  

Trading
of agricultural commodities and livestock generated losses. Prices of corn,
wheat and elements of the soybean complex experienced wide swings in 2005, and
modest losses were sustained across the grain sector of the portfolio. A long
sugar position was quite profitable as weather related crop shortages in Brazil
and Asia increased demand for the commodity and prompted short covering as well.
However, losses from trading coffee, cotton, and cocoa were more than
offsetting. Livestock trading was marginally unprofitable.  

2004   

During 2004, the Partnership had a net realized and
unrealized loss of $510,071 from its trading operations (including foreign
exchange transactions and translations). Brokerage commissions of $5,497,025
and administrative expenses of $528,584 were paid or accrued. The Partnership
paid a profit share to the General Partner of $484,760. Interest income of
$2,406,435 partially offset the Partnership s expenses resulting in a net loss
of $4,614,005. An analysis of the trading gain (loss) by sector is as follows:  

*     While the Partnership had a net dollar trading
loss during 2004, there was a percentage trading gain in the aggregate sectors
due to the timing of additional capital contributions and monthly volatility.  

15  

The year 2004 was distinguished by dramatic
transitions in the underlying character of market trading dynamics. Profitable
trends in January and February gave way to a six month period of trendless,
turbulent action across a broad swath of markets that produced significant
losses. Beginning in September, trends reappeared and the Partnership chalked
up a sharp recovery in the year s final four months. Interest rate and energy
trading were profitable and to a lesser extent so was trading of agricultural
commodities. These gains were partially offset by losses from currency, stock
index and metals trading. The Partnership generated a small trading gain for
the year.  

At the start of the year, long positions in note and
bond futures, particularly for the U.S. and Europe, were quite profitable as
sluggish European growth, concerns about a  jobless  U.S. recovery and central
bank buying of treasuries drove interest rates down. Rising energy prices
benefited long energy positions, and equity and metals trading were profitable.
Currency trading was very unprofitable, however, as a dollar decline halted and
reversed during the quarter.  

From March through August, a number of uncertainties
plagued market participants including: 
the June Iraqi elections, the U.S. Presidential elections in November,
the strength of the American economy and thrust of Federal Reserve policy, and
China s foreign exchange, industrial and monetary policy directions. As a
result, markets across the board displayed unprofitable, directionless price
action. Trading of currencies, interest rates, stock indices, metals and agricultural
commodities produced losses. Energy trading was the only profitable sector for
this period.  

As the aforementioned uncertainties began to clarify,
market participants became more confident of their opinions and a number of
profitable trend opportunities emerged. In particular, a sharp dollar decline
led to profits from a series of short dollar positions, particularly versus the
euro and Korean won. This dollar sell off was prompted by worries about
persistent U. S. current account and budget deficits, as well as the rising
probability that foreign central banks would begin to diversify their
international reserve holdings away from the American currency. Trading of
interest rate, stock index, and metal futures was also profitable over the last
four months of the year.  

2003   

During 2003, the Partnership achieved net realized and
unrealized gains of $6,747,761 from its trading operations (including foreign
exchange transactions and translations). Brokerage commissions of $5,378,592
and administrative expenses of $456,873 were paid or accrued. The Partnership
paid a profit share to the General Partner of $668,526. Interest income of
$2,061,312 partially offset the Partnership s expenses resulting in a net gain
of $2,305,082. An analysis of the trading gain (loss) by sector is as follows:  

16  

The Partnership s performance was quite volatile
throughout the year 2003. Substantial gains registered in January and February
were largely erased in March, when major long term price trends in currencies,
energy and interest rates reversed abruptly as the Iraq invasion moved from
rhetoric to reality, and as traders and investors rushed to square positions,
moving to the sidelines at least temporarily. Then, in May, as the initial
phase of the Iraqi conflict was reaching a quicker then expected resolution,
concern about large U.S. budget and trade deficits, unfavorable U.S. interest
rate differentials, and Treasury Secretary Snow s apparent acquiescence to a
weaker dollar, reignited a dollar selloff. At the same time, fears of
deflation, and the Fed s continued easy monetary policy, produced a renewed
fall in interest rates. These broad movements brought with them a sizable
profit for the portfolio. However, after slightly favorable summer results,
interest rate and energy markets succumbed to volatility without sustained
trends, and the Partnership s trading in these markets resulted in losses
outweighing gains from currency, stock index, and metals trading over the
second half of 2003.  

On a sector basis, currency trading was profitable for
2003. Long positions in the euro and commodity currencies (South African rand,
Australian and New Zealand dollars) were quite profitable as the U.S. currency
fell. On the other hand, trading of Far Eastern currencies (yen, Korean won,
and the Singapore dollar) produced losses, since heavy Central Bank
intervention throughout the region counterbalanced much of the downward
pressure on the U.S. unit and led to erratic rate fluctuations.  

The Partnership s net long position in stock futures
was profitable due to a general up move in equities worldwide. Long gold and
copper positions were profitable, particularly later in the year, as flight to
safety and a weak dollar boosted gold prices, and as a weak dollar and surging
industrial demand pushed copper prices upward.  

Energy prices were highly volatile during the year,
particularly with the onset of hostilities in Iraq in March, and, hence energy
trading generated losses in 2003.  

Interest rate trading was very profitable during the
first half of 2003 when rates worldwide were continuing to trend downward.
However, when that trend reversed abruptly in mid-June and was followed by
erratic non-directional range trading, offsetting losses were experienced,
especially during the September   December period.  

Lastly, trading of agricultural commodities produced
losses throughout the year.  

Item 7A.  Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Introduction   

Past
Results Are Not Necessarily Indicative of Future Performance    

The
Partnership is a speculative commodity pool. Unlike an operating company, the
risk of market sensitive instruments is integral, not incidental, to the
Partnership s main line of business.  

Market
movements result in frequent changes in the fair market value of the
Partnership s open positions and, consequently, in its earnings and cash flow. The
Partnership s market risk is influenced by a wide variety of factors, including
the level and volatility of interest rates, exchange rates, equity price
levels, the market value of financial instruments and contracts, the
diversification effects among the Partnership s open positions and the
liquidity of the markets in which it trades.  

The
Partnership can rapidly acquire and/or liquidate both long and short positions
in a wide range of different markets. Consequently, it is not possible to
predict how a particular future market scenario will affect performance, and
the Partnership s past performance is not necessarily indicative of its future
results.  

Value
at Risk is a measure of the maximum amount which the Partnership could
reasonably be expected to lose in a given market sector. However, the inherent
uncertainty of the Partnership s speculative trading and the recurrence in the
markets traded by the Partnership of market movements far exceeding expectations
could result in actual trading or non-trading losses far beyond the indicated
Value at Risk or the Partnership s experience to date (  i.e.,  
 risk of ruin ). In light of the foregoing as well as the risks and
uncertainties intrinsic to all future projections,  

17  

the inclusion of the
quantification included in this section should not be considered to constitute
any assurance or representation that the Partnership s losses in any market
sector will be limited to Value at Risk or by the Partnership s attempts to
manage its market risk.  

Materiality,
as used in this section  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk,  is based on an assessment of reasonably possible market movements and
the potential losses caused by such movements, taking into account the
leverage, optionality and multiplier features of the Partnership s market
sensitive instruments.  

Quantifying the Partnership s Trading Value at Risk   

Quantitative Forward-Looking Statements    

The
following quantitative disclosures regarding the Partnership s market risk
exposures contain  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the safe
harbor from civil liability provided for such statements by the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (set forth in Section 27A of the
Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). All
quantitative disclosures in this section are deemed to be forward-looking
statements for purposes of the safe harbor, except for statements of historical
fact.   

The
Partnership s risk exposure in the various market sectors traded by the General
Partner is quantified below in terms of Value at Risk. Due to the Partnership s
mark-to-market accounting, any loss in the fair value of the Partnership s open
positions is directly reflected in the Partnership s earnings (realized or
unrealized) and cash flow (at least in the case of exchange-traded contracts in
which profits and losses on open positions are settled daily through variation
margin).  

In 2005, exchange
maintenance margin requirements have been used by the Partnership as the
measure of its Value at Risk. Maintenance margin requirements are set by
exchanges to equal or exceed 95-99% of the maximum one day losses in the fair
value of any given contract incurred during the time period over which
historical price fluctuations are researched for purposes of establishing
margin levels. The maintenance margin levels are established by exchanges using
historical price studies as well as an assessment of current market volatility
(including the implied volatility of the options on a given futures contract)
and economic fundamentals to provide a probabilistic estimate of the maximum
expected near-term one day price fluctuation.  

In 2005, the Partnership
changed its method of calculating Value at Risk for forward currency contracts
that are not exchange traded and began
to use exchange maintenance margin requirements for equivalent or similar
futures positions as the measure of Value at Risk.  The Partnership
previously used dealers  margin as the measure of Value at Risk for forward currency contracts.  Dealers 
margin rates reflect factors other than volatility such as credit and
administrative considerations which are not relevant to Value at Risk. 
Accordingly, the Partnership believes that, for the Partnership s forward currency contracts, equivalent
exchange maintenance margin requirements are a more appropriate indicator of Value at Risk.  

In quantifying the
Partnership s Value at Risk, 100% positive correlation in the different
positions held in each market risk category has been assumed. Consequently, the
margin requirements applicable to the open contracts have simply been
aggregated to determine each trading category s aggregate Value at Risk. The
diversification effects resulting from the fact that the Partnership s
positions are rarely, if ever, 100% positively correlated have not been
reflected.  

The Partnership s Trading Value
at Risk in Different Market Sectors   

The following table
indicates the average, highest and lowest amounts of trading Value at Risk
associated with the Partnership s open positions by market category for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, calculated using the new method described
above. During fiscal year 2005 and 2004, the Partnership s average total
capitalization was approximately $170.2 million and $198.1 million,
respectively.  

The following tables indicates the average, highest and lowest amounts
of trading Value at Risk associated with the Partnership s open positions by
market category for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The
calculations have been prepared under the method used by the Partnership in
prior years which considered dealer s margin for forward currency contracts
instead of exchange maintenance margin requirements.  

18  

Fiscal Year 2005   

Fiscal Year 2004   

Average,
highest and lowest Value at Risk amounts relate to the quarter-end amounts
during each fiscal year. Average Capitalization is the average of the
Partnership s capitalization at the end of each month during the fiscal year 2005
and 2004. Dollar amounts represent millions of dollars.  

Material Limitations on Value at Risk as an Assessment of
Market Risk    

The
face value of the market sector instruments held by the Partnership is
typically many times the applicable maintenance margin requirement (maintenance
margin requirements generally ranging between approximately 1% and 10% of
contract face value) as well as many times the capitalization of the
Partnership. The magnitude of the Partnership s open positions creates a  risk
of ruin  not typically found in most other investment vehicles. Because of the
size of its positions, certain market conditions   unusual, but historically
recurring from time to time   could cause the Partnership to incur severe
losses over a short period of time. The foregoing Value at Risk table   as well
as the past performance of the Partnership   give no indication of this  risk
of ruin.   

19  

Non-Trading Risk    

The
Partnership has non-trading market risk on its foreign cash balances not needed
for margin. However, these balances (as well as any market risk they represent)
are immaterial.  

The
Partnership also has non-trading cash flow risk as a result of holding a
substantial portion (over 80%) of its assets in U.S. Treasury notes and other
short-term debt instruments (as well as any market risk they represent) for
margin and cash management purposes. Although the General Partner does not
anticipate that, even in the case of major interest rate movements, the
Partnership would sustain a material mark-to-market loss on its securities
positions, if short-term interest rates decline so will the Partnership s cash
management income. The Partnership also maintains a portion (approximately 10%)
of its assets in cash in interest-bearing bank accounts. These cash balances
are also subject (as well as any market risk they represent) to cash flow risk,
which is not material.  

Qualitative Disclosures Regarding Primary Trading Risk
Exposures    

The
following qualitative disclosures regarding the Partnership s market risk
exposures   except for (i) those disclosures that are statements of historical
fact and (ii) the descriptions of how the General Partner manages the
Partnership s primary market risk exposures   constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section
21E of the Securities Exchange Act. The Partnership s primary market risk
exposures as well as the strategies used and to be used by the General Partner   for   managing such exposures are subject to numerous uncertainties,
contingencies and risks, any one of which could cause the actual results of the
Partnership s risk controls to differ materially from the objectives of such
strategies. Government interventions, defaults and expropriations, illiquid
markets, the emergence of dominant fundamental factors, political upheavals,
changes in historical price relationships, an influx of new market
participants, increased regulation and many other factors could result in material
losses as well as in material changes to the risk exposures and the risk
management strategies of the Partnership. There can be no assurance that the
Partnership s current market exposure and/or risk management strategies will
not change materially or that any such strategies will be effective in either
the short- or long-term. Investors must be prepared to lose all or
substantially all of their investment in the Partnership.   

The
following were the primary trading risk exposures of the Partnership as of
December 31, 2005, by market sector.  

Financial
Instruments  . Interest rate movements directly affect the
price of the sovereign bond futures positions held by the Partnership and
indirectly the value of its stock index and currency positions. Interest rate
movements in one country as well as relative interest rate movements between
countries may materially impact the Partnership s profitability. The
Partnership s primary interest rate exposure is to interest rate fluctuations
in the United States and other major industrialized, or Group of Seven (Canada,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom and United States, collectively  G-7 ),
countries. However, the Partnership also may take positions in futures
contracts on the government debt of smaller nations. The General Partner
anticipates that G-7 interest rates, both long-term and short-term, will remain
the primary market exposure of the Partnership for the foreseeable future. 

Currencies  .
Exchange rate risk is a principal market exposure of the Partnership. The
Partnership s currency exposure is to exchange rate fluctuations, primarily
fluctuations which disrupt the historical pricing relationships between
different currencies and currency pairs. The fluctuations are influenced by
interest rate changes as well as political and general economic conditions. The
Partnership trades in a large number of currencies, including cross-rates e.g.,
positions between two currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As of December 31,
2005, the Partnership s currency exposures were in the U.S. dollar versus the
Euro, Swiss Franc, Czech Krone, Polish Zloty, Norwegian Krone, Hungarian
Forint, Swedish Krona, Canadian Dollar, South African Rand, New Zealand Dollar,
Australian Dollar, Yen, Korean Won, Singapore Dollar, Mexican Peso and
Brazilian Real. The exposure in currency crosses were in the Yen versus the
Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar, Swiss Franc and British Pound and in the
Euro versus the Yen, British Pound, Swiss Franc, Polish Zloty, Norwegian Krone,
and Canadian Dollar. 

Stock
Indices  . The Partnership s equity exposure, through stock
index futures, is to equity price risk in the G-7 countries as well as other
countries. As of December 31, 2005, the Partnership s exposures in the G-7
countries were in the: E-Mini Nasdaq 100, E- Mini S P 500, E-Mini Russell
2000 and E-Mini Dow (United States); FTSE 100 (United Kingdom); TOPIX and
Nikkei (Japan); DAX (Germany); and CAC-40 (France) stock indices. The
Partnership s exposure to stock index futures of other countries at December
31, 2005 were in the: Simex Taiwan Index (Taiwan), Simex (Singapore) ALL Shares
(South Africa), SPI 200 (Australia), IBEX 35 (Spain), Hang Seng (Hong Kong),
and the DJ Euro Stoxx 50 (Euro Zone) stock indices. 

20  

Metals  .  The Diversified
Portfolio used for the Partnership trades precious and base metals. The
Partnership s metals market exposure is in gold, silver, platinum, aluminum,
copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. 

Agricultural  .
The Partnership s primary commodities exposure is to agricultural price
movements, which are often directly affected by severe or unexpected weather
conditions. As of December 31, 2005, the Partnership had exposure to
agricultural commodities including coffee, sugar, cocoa, cotton, wheat, corn,
the soybean complex as well as live cattle and hogs. 

Energy  .  The Partnership s
primary energy market exposure is to gas and oil price movements, often
resulting from political developments in the Middle East and economic conditions
worldwide. Energy prices are volatile and substantial profits and losses have
been and are expected to continue to be experienced in this market. 

Qualitative Disclosures Regarding Non-Trading Risk Exposure    

The
following were the only non-trading risk exposures of the Partnership as of
December 31, 2005.  

Foreign
Currency Balances  . The Partnership s primary foreign currency
balances are in Japanese yen, euro, British pounds and Hong Kong dollars. The
Partnership controls the non-trading risk of these balances by regularly
converting these balances back into dollars (no less frequently than twice a
month). 

Securities
Positions  . The Partnership s only market exposure in
instruments held other than for trading is in its securities portfolio. The
Partnership holds only cash or interest-bearing, credit risk-free, short-term
paper   typically U.S. Treasury instruments with durations no longer than 1
year. Violent fluctuations in prevailing interest rates could cause immaterial
mark-to-market losses on the Partnership s securities, although substantially
all of these short-term instruments are held to maturity. 

Qualitative Disclosures Regarding Means of Managing Risk
Exposure    

The
General Partner attempts to control risk through the systematic application of
its trading method, which includes a multi-system approach to price trend
recognition, an analysis of market volatility, the application of certain money
management principles, which may be revised from time to time, and adjusting
leverage or portfolio size. In addition, the General Partner limits its trading
to markets which it believes are sufficiently liquid in respect of the amount
of trading it contemplates conducting.  

The
goal of the General Partner s research has been to develop and select a mix of
systems in each market and allocate risk across a wide array of markets, so as
to contain overall portfolio risk in the targeted range, while allowing
exposure to profitable trend opportunities. Over the last 30 years, the General
Partner has developed hundreds of trading systems. These intermediate- to
long-term trading systems generate buy or sell decisions in a particular market
based on the direction of price movements in the market.  

Systems
can be materially different   better in some periods and worse in others. The
main distinguishing features are time-frame over which systems work (intra-day
to long-term), the type of data fed into them (granularity [ticks to
weeks/months], type [market or economic statistics], source [cash, futures or
options markets]), and the objective of the system (profiting from trends,
trading-ranges or volatility). No single approach will work all the time. Therefore,
the General Partner s objective is to have several approaches operating at all
times. Since the early 1980 s, the General Partner has selected multiple
systems for each market.  

When
arriving at the portfolio allocation, the General Partner seeks maximum
diversification subject to liquidity constraints. The markets traded and
allocations are reviewed monthly, although changes may occur less frequently. The
following factors are considered in constructing a universe of markets to trade
for each portfolio:  profitability,
correlation of market performance, liquidity of markets, depth of markets,
breadth of markets,  

21  

professional judgment,
desired diversification and transaction costs. Once the universe of markets is
established, the General Partner s simulation and optimization techniques help
determine which markets to include in the portfolio. The current allocation to
any market in the portfolio does not exceed 3%.  

In
attempting to assess market volatility as a means of monitoring and evaluating
risk, the General Partner uses its volatility overlay as a part of individual
market risk management. This system is designed to measure the risk in the
portfolio s position in each market and signals a decrease in position size
when risk increases and an increase in position size when risk decreases. The
General Partner s volatility overlay maintains overall portfolio risk and
distribution of risk across markets within designated ranges. It is applied to
the systematic strategies described above. A secondary benefit of the
volatility overlay can be timely profit taking. Because markets tend to become
more volatile after a profitable trend has been long underway, the volatility
overlay often signals position reductions before trend reversals.  

In
addition to the volatility overlay, the General Partner s risk management
focuses on money management principles applicable to the portfolio as a whole
rather than to individual markets. One such principle is portfolio
diversification, which attempts to improve the quality of profits by reducing
volatility.  

Additional
money management principles applicable to the portfolio as a whole
include:  (1) limiting the assets
committed as margin or collateral, generally within a range of 15% to 35% of an
account s net assets, though the amount may at any time be substantially
higher; (2) prohibiting pyramiding - that is, using unrealized profits in a
particular market as margin for additional positions solely in the same market;
and (3) changing the equity used for trading by an account solely on a
controlled periodic basis, not automatically due to an increase in equity from
trading profits.  

Another
important risk management function is the careful control of leverage or
portfolio size. Leverage levels are determined by simulating the entire
portfolio all markets, all systems, all risk control overlays, the exact
weightings of the markets in the portfolio and the proposed level of
leverage over the past five or ten years to determine the worst case
experienced by the portfolio in the simulation period.  

The
worst case or peak-to-trough drawdown is measured from a daily high in
portfolio assets to the subsequent daily low whether that occurs days, weeks or
months after the daily high. If the General Partner considers the drawdown too
severe, it reduces the leverage or portfolio size. There are, however, no
restrictions on the amount of leverage the General Partner may use at any given
time.  

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

Financial
statements required by this item, including the report of Deloitte   Touche
LLP for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, are included as
Exhibit 13.01 to this report. The report of Ernst   Young LLP for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 is filed as Exhibit 13.02 to this report.  

The
following summarized quarterly financial information presents the results of
operations for the three month periods ended March 31, June 30, September 30
and December 31, 2005 and 2004. This information has not been audited.  

*  Expenses are exclusive of any realized and
accrued profit share to the General Partner.  

22  

*  Expenses are exclusive of any realized and
accrued profit share to the General Partner.  

There were no
extraordinary, unusual or infrequently occurring items recognized in any
quarter within the two most recent fiscal years, and the Partnership has not
disposed of any segments of its business. There have been no year-end
adjustments that are material to the results of any fiscal quarter reported
above.  

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

None  

Item
9A.    Controls and Procedures   

The
General Partner, with the participation of the General Partner s principal
executive officers and principal financial officer, has evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and
procedures with respect to the Partnership within 90 days of the filing date of
this Annual Report, and, based on their evaluation, have concluded that these
disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There were no significant
changes in the General Partner s internal controls with respect to the
Partnership or in other factors applicable to the Partnership that could
significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation.  

Item
9B.    Other Information .  

None.  

PART III  

Item
10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

(a,b)   Identification of Directors and Executive
Officers   

The
Partnership has no directors or executive officers. The Partnership is
controlled and managed by the General Partner.  

The
General Partner, is a Delaware corporation organized in May 1982 to manage
discretionary accounts in futures and forward markets. It is the corporate
successor to a futures trading and advisory organization which has been
continuously managing assets in the currency and futures markets using
quantitative, systematic techniques since 1971.  

The
principals and senior officers of the General Partner as of December 31, 2005
are as follows:  

Harvey Beker, age 52.     Mr. Beker
is Co-Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chairman of the General Partner and The
Millburn Corporation, and a partner of their affiliate, ShareInVest Research
L.P. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics from New York University
( NYU ) in 1974 and a Master of Business Administration 

23  

degree in finance from
NYU in 1975. From June 1975 to July 1977, Mr. Beker was employed by Loeb
Rhoades, Inc. where he developed and traded silver arbitrage strategies. From
July 1977 to June 1978, Mr. Beker was a futures trader at Clayton Brokerage Co.
of St. Louis. Mr. Beker has been employed by The Millburn Corporation since
June 1978 and initially served as the Director of operations for its affiliate,
Millburn Partners. During his tenure at Millburn (including its affiliates,
Millburn Partners and CommInVest Research Limited Partnership ( CommInVest ))
he has been instrumental in the development of the research, trading and
operations areas. Mr. Beker became a principal of the firm in June 1982, and a
partner in ShareInVest, the predecessor of ShareInVest Research L.P. ( ShareInVest ),
in April 1982.  

Gregg R. Buckbinder, age 47.     Mr.
Buckbinder is Senior Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer of the General
Partner and The Millburn Corporation and a partner, since January 2000, of
ShareInVest. He graduated cum laude from Pace University ( Pace ) in 1980 with
a B.B.A. in accounting and received an M.S. in taxation from Pace in 1988. He
joined the General Partner and The Millburn Corporation in January 1998 from
Odyssey Partners, L.P. where he was responsible for the operation,
administration and accounting of the firm s merchant banking and managed
account businesses from July 1990 through December 1997. Mr. Buckbinder was
employed by Tucker Anthony, a securities broker and dealer, from June 1985 to
July 1990 where he was First Vice President and Controller, and from August
1983 to June 1984 where he designed and implemented various operations and
accounting systems. He was with the public accounting firm of Ernst  
Whinney from June 1984 to June 1985 as a manager in the tax department and from
September 1980 to August 1983 as a senior auditor, with an emphasis on clients
in the financial services business. He is a Certified Public Accountant and a
member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. 

George E. Crapple, age 61.     Mr.
Crapple is Co-Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chairman of the General Partner
and The Millburn Corporation and a partner of ShareInVest. In 1966 he graduated
with honors from the University of Wisconsin where his field of concentration
was economics and he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. In 1969 he graduated from
Harvard Law School,   magna cum laude  ,
where he was a member of the Harvard Law Review. He was a lawyer with Sidley
  Austin, Chicago, Illinois, from 1969 until April 1, 1983, as a partner
since 1975, specializing in commodities, securities, corporate and tax law. He
was first associated with the General Partner in 1976 and joined General
Partner and The Millburn Corporation (including its affiliates, Millburn
Partners and CommInVest) on April 1, 1983 on a full-time basis. He became a
partner in ShareInVest in April 1984. Mr. Crapple is a Director, Member of the
Executive Committee, Chairman of the Appeals Committee and a former Chairman of
the Eastern Regional Business Conduct Committee of the NFA, past Chairman of
the Managed Funds Association, a member of the Global Markets Advisory
Committee of the CFTC and a member of the board of directors of the Futures
Industry Association ( FIA ). 

Steven M. Felsenthal, age 36.     Mr.
Felsenthal is General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of the General
Partner, The Millburn Corporation and ShareInVest. Prior to joining Millburn in
January 2004, Mr. Felsenthal was a senior associate in the investment
management group at Schulte Roth   Zabel LLP (September 1999- January
2004), where he represented and advised hedge funds, registered investment
companies, investment advisers, broker-dealers and banks in connection with all
facets of their asset management businesses, and a member of the tax department
of Kramer, Levin, Naftalis   Frankel LLP (October 1996- September 1999). He
graduated   cum laude   from
Yeshiva University in 1991 with a bachelor of arts degree in political science,
and   order of the coif   from
Fordham University School of Law in 1996, where he also served as an editor of
the Fordham Environmental Law Journal. Mr. Felsenthal received an LL.M degree in
taxation from NYU School of Law in 2001 and has written and been quoted in
numerous published articles on various topics related to investment management.
Mr. Felsenthal is a member of the New York State Bar. 

Mark B. Fitzsimmons, age 58.            Mr. Fitzsimmons is a
Senior Vice-President of the General Partner and The Millburn Corporation and a
partner, since January 2000, of ShareInVest. His responsibilities include both
business development and investment strategy. He joined the General Partner and
its affiliates in January 1990 from Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated where
he was a Principal and Manager of institutional foreign exchange sales and was
involved in strategic trading for the firm from October 1987 until January 1990.
From September 1977 to October 1987 he was with Chemical Bank New York
Corporation ( Chemical ), first as a Senior Economist in Chemical s Foreign
Exchange Advisory Service and later as a Vice-President and Manager of Chemical s
Corporate Trading Group. While at Chemical he also traded both foreign exchange
and fixed income products. From September 1973 to September 1977 Mr.
Fitzsimmons was employed by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, dividing his
time 

24  

between the International
Research Department and the Foreign Exchange Department. He graduated summa cum
laude from the University of Bridgeport, Connecticut in 1970 with a B.S. in
economics. His graduate work was done at the University of Virginia, where he
received a certificate of candidacy for a Ph.D. in economics in 1973.  

Barry Goodman, age 48.     Mr.
Goodman is Executive Vice-President, Director of Trading and Co-Director of
Research of the General Partner and The Millburn Corporation and a partner of
ShareInVest. His responsibilities include overseeing the firm s trading
operation and managing its trading relationships, as well as the design and
implementation of trading systems. He graduated   magna cum laude   from Harpur College of the State University of
New York in 1979 with a B.A. in economics. From September 1980 through October
1982 he was a commodity trader for E. F. Hutton   Co., Inc. ( E.F. Hutton ).
At E.F. Hutton, he also designed and maintained various technical indicators
and coordinated research projects pertaining to the futures markets. He joined
the General Partner and The Millburn Corporation (including its affiliate,
Millburn Partners) in November 1982 as Assistant Director of Trading. He became
a partner in ShareInVest in January 1984. 

Dennis B. Newton, age 54.     Mr.
Newton is a Senior Vice-President of the General Partner and The Millburn
Corporation. His primary responsibilities are in administration and business
development. Prior to joining the General Partner and The Millburn Corporation
in September 1991, Mr. Newton was President of Phoenix Asset Management, Inc. ( Phoenix ),
a registered commodity pool operator from April 1990 to August 1991 and
President of its affiliated introducing broker, Phoenix Futures Inc., from
March 1990 to June 1991. Prior to his employment with Phoenix, Mr. Newton was a
Director of Managed Futures with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. ( Prudential-Bache )
from October 1987 to March 1990 and was associated with its affiliated futures
commission merchant entity, Prudential Securities Futures Management, Inc. Mr.
Newton joined Prudential-Bache from Heinold Asset Management, Inc. ( Heinold ),
and its affiliated futures commission merchant, Heinold Commodities Inc., where
he was a member of the senior management team from October 1974 to October 1987.
Heinold was a pioneer and one of the largest sponsors of funds utilizing
futures and currency forward trading. 

Grant N. Smith, age 54.     Mr.
Smith is Executive Vice-President and Co-Director of Research of the General
Partner and The Millburn Corporation and a partner of ShareInVest. He is
responsible for the design, testing and implementation of quantitative trading
strategies, as well as for planning and overseeing the computerized
decision-support systems of the firm. He received a B.S. degree from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( M.I.T. ) in 1974 and an M.S. degree
from M.I.T. in 1975. While at M.I.T. he held several teaching and research
positions in the computer science field and participated in various projects
relating to database management. He joined the predecessor entity to The
Millburn Corporation in June 1975, and has been continuously associated with
the General Partner, The Millburn Corporation and their affiliates since that
time. 

Tod A. Tanis, age 51.     Mr. Tanis
is a Vice President, Principal Accounting Officer and Director of Operations of
the General Partner and The Millburn Corporation. He is responsible for
overseeing operations and accounting for the firm s commodity pools. He
graduated from Grove City College in May 1976 with a B.A. in accounting and
joined the General Partner and The Millburn Corporation in May of 1983. Prior
to joining Millburn, he was with E.F. Hutton, where he was a Manager from
December 1982 to April 1983; a Supervisor from August 1982 to December 1982; an
International Accountant from April 1979 to August 1982; and a staff accountant
from June 1978 to April 1979. As a Manager at E.F. Hutton, he was responsible
for all internal and external commodity reporting. Mr. Tanis also served as a
Junior Accountant and then International Staff Accountant with Merrill Lynch
  Company from September 1976 to May 1978. 

(c)    Identification of Certain Significant
Employees   

None.  

(d)    Family
Relationships   

None.  

(e)    Business
Experience   

25  

See
Item 10 (a,b) above.  

(f)    Involvement
in Certain Legal Proceedings   

None.  

(g)    Audit
Committee Financial Expert   

Because
the Partnership has no employees, officers or directors, the Partnership has no
audit committee. The Partnership is managed by the General Partner. Gregg
Buckbinder serves as the General Partner s  audit committee financial expert.   Mr. Buckbinder is not independent of the
management of the General Partner. The General Partner is a privately owned
corporation managed by its shareholders. It has no independent directors.  

(h)    Code
of Ethics   

The
Partnership has no employees, officers or directors and is managed by the
General Partner.  The General Partner has adopted an Executive Code of
Ethics that applies to its principal executive officers, principal financial
officer and principal accounting officer.  A copy of this Executive Code
of Ethics may be obtained at no charge by written request to Millburn
Ridgefield Corporation, 411 West Putnam Avenue, Greenwich, Connecticut 06830 or
by calling 203-625-7554 (ask for Client Services).  

Item 11.  Executive Compensation   

The
Partnership has no directors or officers. None of the directors or officers of
the General Partner receive compensation from the Partnership. The General
Partner makes all trading decisions on behalf of the Partnership. The General
Partner receives monthly brokerage commissions of 0.458 of 1% of the
Partnership s Net Assets (which is reduced to 0.167 of 1% of Net Assets for
partners who acquire their Interests directly through the General Partner) and
an annual profit share of 20% of any new trading profit as defined.  

Item
12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management   

(a)    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners   

As of December 31, 2005, the General Partner knows of
the following person who owns beneficially more than 5% of the Partnership s
Interests as follows:   

All of
the Partnership s general partner interest is held by the General Partner.  

(1)           Interests held
indirectly include Interests with respect to which a person holds voting or
disposition power:  (i) by virtue of
serving as one of two or fewer trustees, custodian or officer of the beneficial
owner which is a charitable entity, benefit plan or custody account for the
benefit of a minor; (ii) with respect to certain Interests owned by members of
a person s immediate family; or (iii) through a self directed benefit plan.  

26  

(b)    Security Ownership of Management   

The Partnership has no officers or directors. Under
the terms of the Limited Partnership Agreement, the Partnership s affairs are
managed by the General Partner, which has discretionary authority over the
Partnership s trading. As of December 31, 2005, the General Partner s interest
was valued at $3,537,452, which constituted 2.07% of the Partnership s capital
as of December 31, 2005.  

As of December 31, 2005, the directors and executive
officers of the General Partner own beneficially Limited Partnership Interests
as follows:   

(c)    Changes in Control   

None.  

(d)    Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans   

None.  

Item
13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

See  Item
11.  Executive Compensation   and  Item 12.  Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management .  
The Partnership allocated to the General Partner $4,802,240 in brokerage
fees and allocated  

(2)           Interests held
indirectly include Interests with respect to which a person holds voting or
disposition power:  (i) by virtue of
serving as one of two or fewer trustees, custodian or officer of the beneficial
owner which is a charitable entity, benefit plan or custody account for the
benefit of a minor; (ii) with respect to certain Interests owned by members of
a person s immediate family; or (iii) through a self directed benefit plan.  

27  

$1,140,619 in profit share
to the New Profits Memo Account for the year ended  December 31, 2005. The General Partner s
general partner interest showed an allocation of income of $311,043 for the
year ended December 31, 2005. The General Partner has paid certain
administrative expenses to third-parties on behalf of the Partnership, related
to legal, accounting, auditing, printing, postage and similar administrative
expenses, and has been or will be reimbursed without interest by the
Partnership. The Partnership pays administrative expenses for legal, audit and
accounting services, up to 0.25 of 1% per annum of the Partnership s average
month-end net assets. A portion of such expenses are paid to an affiliate of
the General Partner, The Millburn Corporation, for the provision of accounting
services to the Partnership. The Partnership incurred administrative expenses
of $460,610 during the year ended 2005 of which $317,619 was paid or was
payable to The Millburn Corporation. The General Partner pays all
administrative expenses in excess of 0.25 of 1% per annum of the Partnership s
average month-end net assets. The Partnership is prohibited from making any
loans.  

Item
14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

(1)            Audit Fees   

The
aggregate fees for professional services rendered by Deloitte   Touche LLP
in connection with their audit of the Partnership s financial statements in
connection with the statutory and regulatory filings for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $39,600 and $30,000,
respectively.  

The
aggregate fees for professional services rendered by Ernst   Young LLP in
connection with their reviews of the financial statements included in the
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and in connection with the statutory and
regulatory filings for the year ended December 31, 2004 was approximately
$20,167.  

(2)            Audit-Related Fees   

There
were no fees for assurance and related services rendered by Deloitte  
Touche LLP or Ernst   Young LLP for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.  

(3)            Tax Fees   

The
aggregate fees for professional services rendered by Deloitte   Touche LLP
for tax compliance, advice or planning services rendered by Deloitte  
Touche LLP for the benefit of the Partnership for the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004 were approximately $10,000 and $7,353, respectively.  

(4)            All Other Fees   

None  

(5)            Pre-Approval Policies   

The
board of directors of the General Partner pre-approves the engagement of the
Partnership s auditor for all services to be provided by the auditor.  

PART IV  

Item
15.    Exhibits
and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a)(1)    Financial Statements   

The following are
included with the 2005 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,
a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.01.  

28  

Affirmation
of Millburn Ridgefield Corporation  

  Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

  Statements
of Financial Condition  

  Condensed
Schedules of Investments  

  Statements
of Operations  

  Statements
of Changes in Partners  Capital  

  Statements
of Financial Highlights  

  Notes
to Financial Statements  

(a)(2)    Financial Statement Schedules   

All
Schedules are omitted for the reason that they are not required or are not
applicable because equivalent information has been included in the financial
statements or the notes thereto.  

(a)(3)    Exhibits as required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K   

The
following exhibits are included herewith.  

The following exhibits were filed by the Partnership
as a part of its Registration Statement on Form 10 (Reg. No. 000-50725) on
April 29, 2004 and are incorporated herein by reference.  

Exhibit Number   

Description
  of Document   

3.01  

Amended and Restated Certificate of Limited
  Partnership of Nestor Partners  

4.01  

Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
  Partnership of Nestor Partners  

10.01  

Form of ISDA Master Agreement and Credit Support
  Annex  

10.02  

ISDA Master Agreement, Schedule, and Credit Support
  Annex between Nestor Partners and Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited  

10.03  

ISDA Master Agreement, Schedule, and Credit Support
  Annex between Nestor Partners and Dresdner Bank A.G.  

10.04(a)  

Foreign Exchange Customer Agreement between Nestor
  Partners and Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated  

29  

Exhibit Number   

Description
  of Document   

10.04(b)  

Customer Agreement Foreign Currency Option
  Transactions between Nestor Partners and Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc.  

10.05  

International Foreign Exchange and Options Master
  Agreement between Deutsche Bank AG and Nestor Partners  

10.06  

Acknowledgement of Separate Risk Disclosure
  Statements and Customer Agreement between Merrill Lynch Futures Inc. and
  Nestor Partners  

10.07  

Customer Agreement between Warburg Dillon Reed LLC
  and Nestor Partners  

10.08  

Futures and Options Agreement for Institutional
  Customers between Deutsche Morgan Grenfell Inc. and Nestor Partners  

30  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 30 th  day of
March, 2006.  

NESTOR PARTNERS  

By:  

Millburn
  Ridgefield Corporation,  

General Partner  

By:  

/s/ Harvey Beker  

Harvey Beker  

Co-Chief
  Executive Officer  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the General Partner of
the Registrant in the capacities and on the date indicated.  

Signature   

Title with 
  General Partner   

Date   

/s/ Harvey Beker  

Co-Chief  

March 30,
  2006  

Harvey Beker  

Executive
  Officer and Director  

(Principal
  Executive Officer)  

/s/ George E. Crapple  

Co-Chief Executive  

March 30, 2006  

George E.
  Crapple  

Officer and
  Director  

(Principal
  Executive Officer)  

/s/ Gregg
  Buckbinder  

Chief Financial
  and Operating Officer  

March 30,
  2006  

Gregg Buckbinder  

(Principal
  Financial Officer)  

/s/ Tod A. Tanis  

Vice President  

March 30, 2006  

Tod A. Tanis  

(Principal
  Accounting Officer)  

(Being
the principal executive officers, the principal financial officer and principal
accounting officer, and a majority of the directors of Millburn Ridgefield
Corporation)  

Millburn Ridgefield
Corporation  

  General Partner of
Registrant  

  March 30, 2006  

By  

/s/ Harvey Beker  

Harvey Beker  

Co-Chief
  Executive Officer  

31  

EXHIBIT INDEX  

The
following exhibits are included herewith.  

The following exhibits were filed by the Partnership
as a part of its Registration Statement on Form 10 (Reg. No. 000-50725) on
April 29, 2004 and are incorporated herein by reference.  

Exhibit Number   

Description
  of Document   

3.01  

Amended and Restated Certificate of Limited
  Partnership of Nestor Partners  

4.01  

Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
  Partnership of Nestor Partners  

10.01  

Form of ISDA Master Agreement and Credit Support
  Annex  

10.02  

ISDA Master Agreement, Schedule, and Credit Support
  Annex between Nestor Partners and Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited  

10.03  

ISDA Master Agreement, Schedule, and Credit Support
  Annex between Nestor Partners and Dresdner Bank A.G.  

10.04(a)  

Foreign Exchange Customer Agreement between Nestor
  Partners and Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated  

10.04(b)  

Customer Agreement Foreign Currency Option
  Transactions between Nestor Partners and Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc.  

10.05  

International Foreign Exchange and Options Master
  Agreement between Deutsche Bank AG and Nestor Partners  

10.06  

Acknowledgement of Separate Risk Disclosure
  Statements and Customer Agreement between Merrill Lynch Futures Inc. and
  Nestor Partners  

10.07  

Customer Agreement between Warburg Dillon Reed LLC
  and Nestor Partners  

10.08  

Futures and Options Agreement for Institutional
  Customers between Deutsche Morgan Grenfell Inc. and Nestor Partners  

32  

<EX-13.01>
 2
 a06-2168_1ex13d01.htm
 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 13.01   

Nestor Partners    

Financial
Statements for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

NESTOR PARTNERS   

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

AFFIRMATION OF MILLBURN
RIDGEFIELD CORPORATION   

In
compliance with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission s regulations, I
hereby affirm that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the information
contained in the statements of financial condition of Nestor Partners at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, including the condensed schedules of
investments, and the related statements of operations, changes in partners 
capital and financial highlights for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 are complete and accurate.  

George
E. Crapple, Co-Chief Executive Officer 
Millburn Ridgefield Corporation 
General Partner of Nestor Partners  

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

To the
Partners of  
Nestor Partners:  

We
have audited the accompanying statements of financial condition of Nestor
Partners (the  Partnership ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
including the condensed schedules of investments, and the related statements of
operations, changes in partners  capital and financial highlights for the years
then ended. These financial statements and financial highlights are the
responsibility of the Partnership s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and financial highlights based
on our audits. The financial statements and financial highlights for the year
ended December 31, 2003 were audited by other auditors whose report dated
February 17, 2004 expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements.  

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements and financial highlights are free of material
misstatement. The Partnership is not required to have, nor were we engaged to
perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits
included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis
for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Partnership s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we
express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and
financial highlights, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.  

In our
opinion, the financial statements and financial highlights referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Nestor
Partners at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations,
changes in partners  capital and financial highlights for the years then ended
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.  

Deloitte
  Touche LLP  

  New
York, New York  

  February
27, 2006  

NESTOR PARTNERS   

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION   

   AT DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004   

See notes to
financial statements.  

2  

NESTOR PARTNERS   

CONDENSED SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS   

   AT DECEMBER 31, 2005   

(Continued)  

3  

NESTOR PARTNERS   

CONDENSED SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS   

   AT DECEMBER 31, 2005   

U.S. TREASURY NOTES   

(Concluded)  

See notes to financial statements.  

4  

NESTOR PARTNERS   

CONDENSED SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS   

   AT DECEMBER 31, 2004   

(Continued)  

5  

NESTOR PARTNERS   

CONDENSED SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS   

   AT DECEMBER 31, 2004   

U.S. TREASURY NOTES   

(Concluded)  

See notes to financial statements.  

6  

NESTOR PARTNERS   

STATEMENTS
OF OPERATIONS   

   FOR THE
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   

See notes to
financial statements.  

7  

NESTOR PARTNERS   

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN PARTNERS  CAPITAL   

   FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   

See notes to
financial statements.  

8  

NESTOR PARTNERS   

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS   

   FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   

See notes to
financial statements.  

9  

NESTOR PARTNERS   

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

   YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   

1.                           ORGANIZATION OF THE PARTNERSHIP  

Nestor Partners (the  Partnership )
is a limited partnership, which was organized in 1976 under the New Jersey
Uniform Limited Partnership Act. The Limited Partnership Agreement (the  Agreement )
was amended and restated as of April 5, 2004. The Partnership engages in
the speculative trading of futures and forward currency contracts. The
instruments that are traded by the Partnership are volatile and involve a high
degree of market risk.  

The General Partner of
the Partnership is Millburn Ridgefield Corporation (the  General Partner ).
Principals, employees, former employees, and other affiliates of the General
Partner have invested in the Partnership as special limited partners.  

The Agreement provides
that subject to certain limitations, the General Partner shall conduct and
manage the business of the Partnership. The General Partner has the right to
make all investment decisions regarding the Partnership, authorize the payments
of distributions to partners, enter into customer agreements with brokers, and
take such other actions, as it deems necessary or desirable, to manage the
business of the Partnership.  

The limited partners,
special limited partners, New Profit Memo Account, and the General Partner
share in the profits and losses of the Partnership, which are determined before
brokerage fees (Note 2) and profit share allocations on the basis of their
proportionate interests of Partnership capital (Note 3). No limited
partner or special limited partner shall be liable for Partnership obligations
in excess of their capital contribution plus profits allocated to their capital
accounts, if any. Subject to certain conditions, a partner may withdraw/redeem
part or all of his capital contribution and undistributed profits, if any, from
the Partnership as of the end of any month.  

The General Partner,
subject to Commodity Futures Trading Commission requirements, may (at its
discretion) sell additional Limited Partnership Interests to persons desiring
to become limited partners.  

The Partnership will
terminate on October 31, 2017, or in the event of certain other
circumstances, as defined in the Agreement.  

At December 31,
2003, the number of partners in the Partnership exceeded 500. As a result,
pursuant to the requirements of Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (the  Act ), the Partnership filed a registration statement on
Form 10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 29,
2004, and became subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Act.  

10  

2.                           SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
POLICIES  

Investments     The Partnership records its transactions in futures
and forward currency contracts, including related income and expenses, on a
trade-date basis.  

Open futures contracts
are valued at market value and open forward currency contracts are valued at
fair value which is based on pricing models that consider the time value of
money and the current market and contractual prices of the underlying financial
instruments. Realized gains (losses) and changes in unrealized appreciation
(depreciation) on futures and forward currency contracts are recognized in the
periods in which the contracts are closed or the changes occur, and are
included in net realized and unrealized gains (losses) in the statements of
operations.  

Investments in U.S.
Treasury notes are valued at the market value based on bid quotations reported
daily in The Wall Street Journal. The Partnership amortizes premiums and
accretes discounts on U.S. Treasury notes using the effective interest method.
Such securities are normally on deposit with financial institutions as
collateral for performance of the Partnership s trading obligations with
respect to derivative contracts and are held for safekeeping in a custody
account.  

Foreign Currency Translation     Assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated at quoted prices of such currencies.
Purchases and sales of investments are translated at the exchange rate
prevailing when such transactions occurred.  

Brokerage Fees     The Agreement provides that the Partnership shall
charge the limited partners  capital accounts and pay the General Partner
brokerage fees at a fixed rate of 0.542% per month of net asset value (6.5% per
annum) of limited partnership interests. Effective July 1, 2003, the
General Partner reduced the brokerage fee rate to 0.458% per month of net asset
value (5.5% per annum). The General Partner retains the right to charge less
than the annual brokerage rate except as specified in the Agreement. The
General Partner bears all commission and clearing charges due to third-party
brokers.  

Administrative Expenses     The Partnership bears expenses, including periodic
legal, accounting and filing fees, up to an amount equal to   of 1% per annum of
the average net assets of the Partnership. The General Partner bears any excess
over such amounts. The Partnership will pay any extraordinary expenses
applicable to it.  

The Partnership s
administrative expenses included $317,619, $263,807 and $321,361 in 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively, which relates to legal and accounting services provided
to the Partnership by an affiliate of the General Partner.  

Income Taxes     Income taxes have not been provided, as partners are
individually liable for the taxes, if any, on their share of the Partnership s
income and expenses.  

Fair Value of Financial Instruments     The fair value of the Partnership s
assets and liabilities, which qualify as financial instruments under Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards   ( SFAS )   No. 107,   Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments  ,
approximates the carrying amounts presented in the statements of financial
condition.  

11  

Estimates     The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts and
disclosures reported in the financial statements. Actual results could differ
from these estimates.  

Right of Offset     The customer agreements between the Partnership and
its brokers give the Partnership the legal right to net unrealized gains and
losses. Unrealized gains and losses related to offsetting transactions with
these brokers are reflected on a net basis in the equity in trading accounts in
the statements of financial condition.  

3.                           PROFIT SHARE ALLOCATION  

The Agreement provides
that the General Partner s profit share equal to 20% of Trading Profits (as
defined in the Agreement) at the end of each year is charged to the limited
partners  capital accounts. However, for limited partners  withdrawals during
the year, the profit share calculation shall be computed as though the
withdrawal date was at year end.  

Any profit share charged
is added to the General Partner s capital account to the extent net taxable
capital gains are allocated to the General Partner, and the remainder, if any,
of such profit share is added to the New Profit Memo Account. The General
Partner may not make any withdrawal from the balance in the New Profit Memo
Account. If, at the end of a subsequent year, net taxable gains are allocated
to the General Partner in excess of such year s profit share, a corresponding
amount is transferred from the New Profit memo account to the General Partner s
capital account.  

4.                           DUE FROM/TO BROKERS  

At December 31, 2005
and 2004, the due from brokers balance in the statements of financial condition
includes cash receivable from brokers.  

5.                           TRADING ACTIVITIES  

The Partnership conducts
its trading activities with various brokers acting either as a broker or
counterparty to various transactions. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, cash,
due from brokers and Treasury notes aggregating $69,658,449, and $55,211,679,
respectively, included in the Partnership s equity in trading accounts, were
held by such brokers in segregated accounts as collateral as required by U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission s regulations or by the counterparty bank
or broker. Such collateral can be sold or repledged by the counterparties, at
their discretion.  

The
Partnership enters into contracts with various financial institutions that
contain a variety of indemnifications. The Partnership s maximum exposure under
these arrangements is unknown. However, the Partnership has not had prior
claims or losses pursuant to these contracts and expects the risk of loss to be
remote.  

12  

6.                           DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS  

The Partnership is party
to derivative financial instruments in the normal course of its business. These
financial instruments include futures and forward currency contracts which may
be traded on an exchange ( exchange-traded contracts ) or over-the-counter ( OTC
contracts ).  

The Partnership records
its derivative activities on a mark-to-market basis as described in
Note 2. For OTC contracts, the Partnership enters into master netting
agreements with its counterparties. Therefore, assets represent the Partnership s
unrealized gains, less unrealized losses for OTC contracts in which the
Partnership has a master netting agreement. Similarly, liabilities represent
net amounts owed to counterparties on OTC contracts.  

Futures contracts are
agreements to buy or sell an underlying asset or index for a set price in the
future. Initial margin deposits are made upon entering into futures contracts
and can be either in cash or treasury securities. Open futures contracts are
revalued on a daily basis to reflect the market value of the contracts at the
end of each trading day. Variation margin payments are received or made,
depending upon whether unrealized gains or losses are incurred. When the
contract is closed, the Partnership records a realized gain or loss equal to
the difference between the value of the contract at the time it was opened and
the time it was closed. The Partnership bears the market risk that arises from
changes in the value of these financial instruments.  

Forward currency
contracts entered into by the Partnership represent a firm commitment to buy or
sell an underlying currency at a specified value and point in time based upon
an agreed or contracted quantity. The ultimate gain or loss is equal to the
difference between the value of the contract at the onset and the value of the
contract at settlement date.  

Each of these financial
instruments is subject to various risks similar to those related to the
underlying financial instruments, including market risk, credit risk,
concentration risk, and sovereign risk.  

Market risk is the
potential change in the value of the instruments traded by the Partnership due
to market changes, including interest and foreign exchange rate movements and
fluctuations in futures or security prices. Market risk is directly impacted by
the volatility and liquidity in the markets in which the related underlying
assets are traded. The financial instruments traded by the Partnership contain
varying degrees of off-balance sheet risk whereby changes in the market values
of the futures and forward currency contracts underlying the financial instruments
or the Partnership s satisfaction of the obligations may exceed the amount
recognized in the statements of financial condition.  

Credit risk is the
possibility that a loss may occur due to the failure of a counterparty to
perform according to the terms of a contract. Credit risk is normally reduced
to the extent that an exchange or clearing organization acts as a counterparty
to futures transactions, since typically the collective credit of the members
of the exchange is pledged to support the financial integrity of the exchange.
In the case of OTC transactions, the Partnership  

13  

must rely solely on the
credit of the individual counterparties. The contract amounts of the forward
currency and futures contracts do not represent the Partnership s risk of loss
due to counterparty nonperformance. The Partnership s exposure to credit risk
associated with counterparty nonperformance of these contracts is limited to
the unrealized gains inherent in such contracts, which are recognized in the
statements of financial condition, plus the value of margin or collateral held
by the counterparty. The amount of such credit risk was $43,906,779 and
$35,013,195 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

The General Partner has
established procedures to actively monitor market risk and minimize credit
risk, although there can be no assurance that it will, in fact succeed in doing
so. The General Partner s market risk control procedures include
diversification of the Partnership s portfolio and continuously monitoring the
portfolio s open positions, historical volatility and maximum historical loss.
The General Partner seeks to minimize credit risk primarily by depositing and
maintaining the Partnership s assets at financial institutions and brokers
which the General Partner believes to be creditworthy. The Partnership s
trading activities are primarily with brokers and other financial institutions
located in North America, Europe and Asia. All futures transactions of the Partnership
are cleared by major securities firms pursuant to customer agreements. For all
forward currency transactions, the Partnership utilizes a single clearing
broker which is a major financial institution.  

14  

The Partnership is
subject to sovereign risk such as the risk of restrictions being imposed by
foreign governments on the repatriation of cash and the effects of political or
economic uncertainties. Net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on futures
and forward currency contracts are denominated in the functional currency. Cash
settlement of futures and forward currency contracts is made in the local
currency (settlement currency) and then translated to the functional currency
(U.S. Dollar).  

Net unrealized
appreciation (depreciation) on futures and forward currency contracts by
settlement currency type, denominated in the functional currency, is detailed
below:  

7.                           FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  

The ratios are calculated
based on limited partners  capital and special limited partners  capital taken
as a whole. The computation of such ratios based on the amount of expenses and
profit share allocation assessed to an individual partner s capital account may
vary from these ratios based on the timing of capital transactions and
differences in individual partner s brokerage fees and profit share allocation
arrangements.  

Returns are calculated
for limited partners and special limited partners taken as a whole. An
individual partner s returns may vary from these returns based on the timing of
capital transactions and differences in individual partners  brokerage fees and
profit share allocation arrangements.  

* * * *
* *  

15  

</EX-13.01>

<EX-13.02>
 3
 a06-2168_1ex13d02.htm
 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Exhibit
13.02   

Report of Independent
Auditors  

To the Partners of  

  Nestor Partners  

We have audited the
accompanying statements of financial condition of Nestor Partners (the  Partnership ),
as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, including the condensed schedules of
investments, and the related statements of operations, changes in partners 
capital and financial highlights for the years then ended. These financial
statements and financial highlights are the responsibility of the Partnership s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and financial highlights based on our audits.  

We conducted our audits
in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements and financial highlights are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and
financial highlights. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the
financial statements and financial highlights referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Nestor Partners at December
31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of its operations, changes in partners 
capital and financial highlights for the years then ended in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  

</EX-13.02>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 a06-2168_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
31.1   

CERTIFICATION OF
PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

I, George E. Crapple,
Co-Chief Executive Officer of Millburn Ridgefield Corporation, the General
Partner of Nestor Partners (the  Partnership ), do hereby certify that:  

1. I have reviewed this
annual report on Form 10-K of the Partnership;  

2. Based on my knowledge,
this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report;  

3. Based on my knowledge,
the financial statements, and other financial information included in this
annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the Partnership as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report;  

4. The Partnership s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Partnership and have:  

(a) designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Partnership, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;  

(b) evaluated the
effectiveness of the Partnership s disclosure controls and procedures presented
in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation;  

(c) disclosed in this
report any change in the Partnership s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the Partnership s most recent fiscal quarter
(the Partnership s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of this annual report)
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Partnership s internal control over financial reporting.  

5. The Partnership s
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Partnership s
auditors and the audit committee of the Partnership s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a) all significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the Partnership s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b) any fraud, whether or
not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the Partnership s internal controls over financial
reporting.  

By:  

/s/ George E. Crapple  

George E. Crapple  

Co-Chief Executive
  Officer  

March 30, 2006  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 a06-2168_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
31.2   

CERTIFICATION OF
PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

I, Harvey Beker, Co-Chief
Executive Officer of Millburn Ridgefield Corporation, the General Partner of
Nestor Partners (the  Partnership ), do hereby certify that:  

1. I have reviewed this
annual report on Form 10-K of the Partnership;  

2. Based on my knowledge,
this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report;  

3. Based on my knowledge,
the financial statements, and other financial information included in this
annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the Partnership as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report;  

4. The Partnership s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Partnership and have:  

(a) designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Partnership, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;  

(b) evaluated the
effectiveness of the Partnership s disclosure controls and procedures presented
in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation;  

(c) disclosed in this
report any change in the Partnership s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the Partnership s most recent fiscal quarter
(the Partnership s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of this annual report) that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Partnership s internal control over financial reporting.  

5. The Partnership s
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Partnership s
auditors and the audit committee of the Partnership s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a) all significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the Partnership s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b) any fraud, whether or
not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the Partnership s internal controls over financial
reporting.  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.3>
 6
 a06-2168_1ex31d3.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
31.3   

CERTIFICATION OF
PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER  

I, Gregg Buckbinder,
Chief Financial and Operating Officer and principal financial officer of
Millburn Ridgefield Corporation, the  
General Partner of Nestor Partners (the  Partnership ), do hereby certify that:  

1. I have reviewed this
annual report on Form 10-K of the Partnership;  

2. Based on my knowledge,
this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this annual report;  

3. Based on my knowledge,
the financial statements, and other financial information included in this
annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the Partnership as of, and for, the
periods presented in this annual report;  

4. The Partnership s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the Partnership and have:  

(a) designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the Partnership, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;  

(b) evaluated the
effectiveness of the Partnership s disclosure controls and procedures presented
in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation;  

(c) disclosed in this
report any change in the Partnership s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the Partnership s most recent fiscal quarter
(the Partnership s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of this annual report)
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Partnership s internal control over financial reporting.  

5. The Partnership s
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Partnership s
auditors and the audit committee of the Partnership s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a) all significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the Partnership s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b) any fraud, whether or
not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the Partnership s internal controls over financial
reporting.  

By:  

/s/ Gregg Buckbinder  

Gregg Buckbinder  

Chief Financial and
  Operating Officer  

March 30, 2006  

</EX-31.3>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 a06-2168_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit
32.1   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF
CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE  

I,
George E. Crapple, the Co-Chief Executive Officer of Millburn Ridgefield
Corporation, the General Partner of Nestor Partners (the  Partnership ), certify
that (i) the Annual Report of the Partnership on Form 10-K for the period
ending December 31, 2005 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the information
contained in such Annual Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Partnership.  

Date:

March
  30, 2006  

/s/  

George
  E. Crapple  

George
  E. Crapple  

Co-Chief
  Executive Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 a06-2168_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.2   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF
CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE  

I,
Harvey Beker, the Co-Chief Executive Officer of Millburn Ridgefield
Corporation, the General Partner of Nestor Partners (the  Partnership ), certify
that (i) the Annual Report of the Partnership on Form 10-K for the period
ending December 31, 2005 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the information
contained in such Annual Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Partnership.  

Date:

March
  30, 2006  

/s/
  Harvey Beker  

Harvey
  Beker  

Co-Chief
  Executive Officer  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-32.3>
 9
 a06-2168_1ex32d3.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.3   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF
CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE  

I,
Gregg Buckbinder, the Chief Financial and Operating Officer and principal
financial officer of Millburn Ridgefield Corporation, the General Partner of
Nestor Partners (the  Partnership ), certify that (i) the Annual Report of the
Partnership on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005 fully complies
with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 and (ii) the information contained in such Annual Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Partnership.  

Date:

March
  30, 2006  

/s/  

Gregg
  Buckbinder  

Gregg
  Buckbinder  

Chief
  Financial and Operating Officer  

</EX-32.3>

