<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_912030_0000950129-06-003500_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>682795</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>185805</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>307068</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>60</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950129-06-003500.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331162015
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950129-06-003500
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			TORCH ENERGY ROYALTY TRUST
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000912030
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OIL ROYALTY TRADERS [6792]
		IRS NUMBER:				746411424
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-12474
		FILM NUMBER:		06729154

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		RODNEY SQUARE NORTH
		STREET 2:		1100 N MARKET ST
		CITY:			WILMINGTON
		STATE:			DE
		ZIP:			19890
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3026518775

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1100 NORTH MARKET STREET
		CITY:			WILMINGTON
		STATE:			DE
		ZIP:			19890

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 HQ4nZegQYQZdG2Dz9wIhfoNGDbNgJaYRMvsfVLlnAcZpIYFINyIxPPNzTPhR4N/M
 gHJmGwXuVDauuwgvVpaTSA==

 0000950129-06-003500.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 h34498e10vk.htm
 TORCH ENERGY ROYALTY TRUST - 12/31/2005

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

(Mark One) 

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 

OR 

Commission file number 1-12474

TORCH ENERGY ROYALTY TRUST 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) 

Delaware 
(State or Other Jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or Organization) 

74-6411424 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

Rodney Square North 
1100 North Market Street 
Wilmington, Delaware 19890 
(Address of Principal Executive Offices; Zip Code) 

(Registrant s Telephone number, Including Area Code ) 
(302) 651-8775 

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT: 

Title of each class   
       
      Name of Each Exchange on  

Which Registered   

Units of Beneficial Interest

New York Stock Exchange 

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (G) OF THE ACT :  None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer; as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act. Yes           No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes           No    

Indicated by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes           No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large
accelerated filer                          Accelerated Filer                          Non-accelerated filer      

Indicated by checkmark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes           No    

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates
computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and
asked price of such common equity, as of the last business day of the
registrant s most recently
completed second fiscal quarter was $56.5 million.

At March 27, 2006, there were 8,600,000 Units of Beneficial Interest of the Trust outstanding.

Annual Report on Form 10-K 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page 

Number 

PART I 

Item 1.

Business

2 

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

5 

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

9 

Item 2.

Properties

9 

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

12 

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Unitholders

12 

PART II 

Item 5.

Market for Registrant s Units and Related
Unitholder Matters

13 

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

13 

Item 7.

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

13 

Item 7a.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk

17 

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

18 

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure

32 

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

32 

Item 9B.

Other Information

32 

PART III 

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

33 

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

33 

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management

33 

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

35 

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

36 

PART IV 

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

37 

Signatures

39 

Consent of T.J. Smith & Company, Inc.    
     Netherland, Sewell and Associates, Inc.    
     Consent of Ryder Scott Company, L.P.    
     Certification  pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification pursuant to Section 906    
     Financial Statements of Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated    

1

Table of Contents   

PART I 

<!-- link2 " Item 1. Business " -->

   Item 1. Business  

This document includes  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All
statements other than statements of historical facts included in this document, including without
limitation, statements under  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  regarding the financial position, estimated quantities and net present
values of reserves of the Torch Energy Royalty Trust ( Trust ) and statements that include the
words  believe ,  expects ,  anticipates ,  intends ,  estimates ,  projects ,  target ,  goal ,
 plans ,  objectives ,  should  or similar expressions or variations are forward-looking
statements. Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated ( Torch ) and the Trust can give no assurances that
the assumptions upon which these statements are based will prove to be correct. Important factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from Torch s expectations ( Cautionary
Statements ) are disclosed under  Risk Factors  elsewhere in this document. All subsequent written
and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Trust or persons acting on its behalf are
expressly qualified by the Cautionary Statements.

General 

The Trust was formed effective October 1, 1993 under the Delaware Business Trust Act pursuant to a
trust agreement ( Trust Agreement ) among Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee ( Trustee ), Torch
Royalty Company ( TRC ), Velasco Gas Company Ltd. ( Velasco ) and Torch as grantor. TRC and
Velasco created net profits interests ( Net Profits Interests ) which burden certain oil and gas
properties ( Underlying Properties ) and conveyed such interests to Torch. Torch conveyed the Net
Profits Interests to the Trust in exchange for an aggregate of 8,600,000 units of beneficial
interest ( Units ). Such Units were sold to the public through various underwriters in November
1993. Pursuant to an administrative services agreement ( Administrative Services Agreement ),
Torch provides accounting, bookkeeping, informational and other services related to the Net Profits
Interest.

The Trust will terminate upon the first to occur of (i) an affirmative vote of the holders of not
less than 66-2/3% of the outstanding Units to liquidate the Trust; (ii) such time as the ratio of
the cash amounts received by the Trust from the Net Profits Interests to administrative costs of
the Trust is less than 1.2 to 1.0 for three consecutive quarters; (iii) March 1 of any year if it
is determined, based on a reserve report as of December 31 of the prior year, that the present
value of estimated pre-tax future net cash flows, discounted at 10%, of proved reserves
attributable to the Net Profits Interests is equal to or less than $25.0 million; or (iv) December
31, 2012. The Trust has not terminated as none of the aforementioned events have occurred. (See
 Termination of Trust  disclosure on page 8 for additional information.) Upon termination of the
Trust, the remaining assets of the Trust will be sold and the proceeds therefrom (after expenses)
will be distributed to the unitholders ( Unitholders ). The sole purpose of the Trust is to hold
the Net Profits Interests, to receive payments from TRC and Velasco, and to make payments to
Unitholders. The Trust does not conduct any business activity and has no employees.

TRC and Velasco contracted to sell the oil and gas production from the Underlying Properties to
Torch Energy Marketing Inc. ( TEMI ), a subsidiary of Torch, under a purchase contract ( Purchase
Contract ). TRC and Velasco receive payments reflecting the proceeds of oil and gas sold and
aggregate these payments, deduct applicable costs and make payments to the Trustee
each quarter for the amounts due to the Trust. Unitholders receive quarterly cash distributions
relating to oil and gas produced and sold from the Underlying Properties. Because no additional
properties will be contributed to the Trust, the assets of

2

Table of Contents   

the Trust deplete over time and a portion of each cash distribution made by the Trust is analogous to a return of capital.

The Underlying Properties constitute working interests in the Chalkley Field in Louisiana
( Chalkley Field ), the Robinson s Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin in Alabama ( Robinson s
Bend Field ), fields that produce from the Cotton Valley formations in Texas ( Cotton Valley
Fields ) and fields that produce from the Austin Chalk formation in Texas ( Austin Chalk Fields ).
The Underlying Properties represent interests in all productive formations from 100 feet below the
deepest productive formation in each field to the surface when the Trust was formed. The Trust
therefore has no interest in deeper productive formations.

Separate conveyances ( Conveyances ) were used to transfer the Net Profits Interests in each state.
Net proceeds ( Net Proceeds ), generally defined as gross revenues received from the sale of
production attributable to the Underlying Properties during any period less property, production,
severance and similar taxes, and development, operating, and certain other costs (excluding
operating and development costs from the Robinson s Bend Field prior to January 1, 2003), are
calculated separately for each Conveyance. If, during any period, costs and expenses deducted in
calculating Net Proceeds exceed gross proceeds under a Conveyance, neither the Trust nor
Unitholders are liable to pay such excess directly, but the Trust will receive no payments for
distribution to Unitholders with respect to such Conveyance until future gross proceeds exceed
future costs and expenses plus the cumulative excess of such costs and expenses not previously
recouped by TRC and Velasco plus interest thereon. The complete definitions of Net Proceeds are
set forth in the Conveyances.

Marketing Arrangements 

In connection with the formation of the Trust, TRC, Velasco and TEMI entered into the Purchase
Contract, which expires upon the termination of the Trust. Under the Purchase Contract, TEMI is
obligated to purchase all net production attributable to the Underlying Properties for an index
price for oil and gas ( Index Price ), less certain gathering, treating and transportation charges,
which are calculated monthly. The Index Price equals the average spot market prices of oil and gas
( Average Market Prices ) at the four locations where TEMI sells production.

The Purchase Contract also provides that TEMI pay a minimum price ( Minimum Price ) for gas
production. The Minimum Price is adjusted annually for inflation and was $1.77, $1.73 and $1.71
per MMBtu for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. When TEMI pays a purchase price based on the
Minimum Price it receives price credits ( Price Credits ), equal to the difference between the
Index Price and the Minimum Price, that it is entitled to deduct in determining the purchase price
when the Index Price for gas exceeds the Minimum Price. In addition, if the Index Price for gas
exceeds the sharing price, which is adjusted annually for inflation ( Sharing Price ), TEMI is
entitled to deduct 50% of such excess ( Price Differential ) in determining the purchase price.
The Sharing Price was $2.18, $2.13 and $2.12 per MMBtu in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. TEMI
has an annual option to discontinue the Minimum Price commitment. However, if TEMI discontinues the
Minimum Price commitment, it will no longer be entitled to deduct the Price Differential in
calculating the purchase price and will forfeit all accrued Price Credits. TEMI has not exercised
its option to discontinue the Minimum Price Commitment.

Gas production is purchased at the wellhead. Therefore, Net Proceeds do not include any amounts
received in connection with extracting natural gas liquids from such production at gas processing
or treating facilities.

3

Table of Contents   

Gathering, Treating and Transportation Arrangements 

The Purchase Contract entitles TEMI to deduct certain gas gathering, treating and transportation
fees in calculating the purchase price for gas in the Robinson s Bend, Austin Chalk and Cotton
Valley Fields. The amounts that may be deducted in calculating the purchase price for such gas are
set forth in the Purchase Contract and are not affected by the actual costs incurred by TEMI to
gather, treat and transport gas. For the Robinson s Bend Field, TEMI is entitled to deduct a
gathering, treating and transportation fee of $0.260 per MMBtu adjusted for inflation ($0.298,
$0.292 and $0.289 per MMBtu for 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectfully), plus fuel usage equal to 5%
of revenues, payable to Bahia Gas Gathering, Ltd. ( Bahia ), an affiliate of Torch, pursuant to a
gas gathering agreement. Additionally, a fee of $.05 per MMBtu, representing a gathering fee
payable to a non-affiliate of Torch, is deducted in calculating the purchase price for production
from 68 of the 394 wells in the Robinson s Bend Field. TEMI deducts $0.38 per MMBtu plus 17% of
revenues in calculating the purchase price for production from the Austin Chalk Fields as a fee to
gather, treat and transport gas production. TEMI deducts from the purchase price for gas for
production attributable to certain wells in the Cotton Valley Fields a transportation fee of $0.045
per MMBtu. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, gathering, treating and
transportation fees deducted from the Net Proceeds calculations pertaining to production during the
twelve months ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 in the Robinson s Bend, Austin Chalk and
Cotton Valley Fields, totaled $1.6 million, $1.4 million and $1.3 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. No amounts for gathering, treating or transportation are deducted in calculating the
purchase price from the Chalkley Field.

Net Profits Interests 

The Net Profits Interests entitle the Trust to receive 95% of the Net Proceeds attributable to oil
and gas produced and sold from wells (other than infill wells) on the Underlying Properties. In
calculating Net Proceeds from the Robinson s Bend Field, operating and development costs incurred
prior to January 1, 2003 were not deducted. In addition, the amounts paid to the Trust from the
Robinson s Bend Field during any calendar quarter are subject to a volume limitation ( Volume
Limitation ) equal to the gross proceeds from the sale of 912.5 MMcf of gas, less property,
production, severance and related taxes. The Robinson s Bend Field production attributable to the
Trust did not meet the Volume Limitation during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
and is not expected to do so in the future.

The Net Profits Interests also entitle the Trust to 20% of the Net Proceeds of wells drilled on the
Underlying Properties since the Trust s establishment into formations in which the Trust has an
interest, other than wells drilled to replace damaged or destroyed wells ( Infill Wells ). Infill
well net proceeds ( Infill Well Net Proceeds ) represent the aggregate gross revenues received from
Infill Wells less the aggregate amount of the following Infill Well costs: i) property, production,
severance and similar taxes; ii) development costs; iii) operating costs; and iv) interest on the
recovered portion, if any, of the foregoing costs computed at a rate of interest announced publicly
by Citibank, N.A. in New York as its base rate.

Availability of Reports 

The Trust s Website address is www.torchroyalty.com. The Trust provides access through this
website to its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and any current reports
on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after these
reports are filed or furnished electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Information contained on the Trust s website or any other websites is not incorporated by reference
into this report and does not constitute a part of this report.

 4

Table of Contents   

<!-- link2 " Item 1A. Risk Factors " -->

   Item 1A. Risk Factors  

You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information
included in this report. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur, the Trust s
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional
risks not presently known to the Trust or which the Trust considers immaterial based on information
currently available to it may also materially adversely affect the Trust.

If oil and gas prices decline significantly for a prolonged period, the Trust s cash flow from
operations will decline and the Trust may have to lower the cash distributions or may not be able
to pay distributions at all. 

The Trust s cash distributions, operating results and the value of the Net Profits Interest are
substantially dependent on prices of gas and, to a lesser extent, oil. Prices for oil and gas are
subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand
for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond the control of
Torch. These factors include:

The domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and gas; 

The price and quantity of foreign imports of oil and gas; 

The level of consumer product demand; 

Weather conditions; 

Overall domestic and global economic conditions; 

Political and economic conditions and events in foreign oil and gas
producing countries, including embargoes, continued hostilities in the Middle East and
other sustained military campaigns, conditions in South America and Russia, and acts
of terrorism or sabotage; 

The ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; 

Technological advances affecting energy consumption; 

Domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; 

The impact of energy conservation efforts; 

The capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation
facilities to the Trust s production; and 

The price and availability of alternative fuels. 

Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil and gas would have an adverse effect on
the Trust s revenues, cash distributions and value of the Net Profits Interests.

The estimated reserve quantities in this report are based on many assumptions that may prove to be
inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will
materially affect the quantities and present value of the Trust s reserves. 

Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows are based
upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, all of which are to some degree speculative
and may vary considerably from actual results. Therefore, actual production, revenues, taxes and
development and operation expenditures may not occur as estimated. Future results of the Trust
will depend upon the ability of the owners of the Underlying Properties to develop, produce and
sell their oil and natural gas reserves. The reserve data included herein are estimates only and
are subject to many uncertainties. Actual quantities of oil and natural gas may differ
considerably from the amounts set forth herein. In addition, different reserve engineers may make
different estimates of reserve quantities and cash flows based upon the same available data. The
present value, discounted at 10%, of future net cash flows from proved reserves attributable to the
Net Profits Interests does not represent the fair market value of the proved reserves, or the price
at which the Net Profits Interests could be sold. A determination of fair

 5

Table of Contents   

market value would
involve consideration of many factors in addition to the present value, discounted at 10%. An
impairment loss is recognized when the net carrying value of the Net Profits Interests exceeds its
fair market value. No impairment loss was recognized during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003.

The Trust s business is subject to operational risks that may not be fully insured, which, if they
were to occur, could adversely affect the Trust s financial condition or results of operations and,
as a result, the Trust s ability to pay distributions to Unitholders. 

Cash payments to the Trust are derived from the production and sale of oil and gas, which
operations are subject to risk inherent in such activities, such as blowouts, cratering,
explosions, damage to equipment caused by weather conditions, facility or equipment malfunctions,
uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution and other environmental risks.
These risks could result in substantial losses which are deducted in calculating the Net Proceeds
paid to the Trust due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and
equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. As is customary
in the industry, the Trust maintains insurance against some but not all of these risks.
Additionally, the Trust may elect not to obtain insurance if it believes that the cost of available
insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for
uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The
occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact
on the Trust s business activities, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay
distributions to Unitholders. The failure of an operator of the underlying Properties to conduct
its operations or discharge its obligations in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the
net proceeds payable to the Trust.

The Trust may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect
the Trust s ability to generate sufficient revenue and its ability to pay distributions to
Unitholders 

The Trust s distributions are dependent on gas production and prices and, to a lesser extent, oil
production and prices from the Underlying Properties. The gas industry is highly competitive in
all of its phases. In marketing production from the Underlying Properties, TEMI encounters
competition from major gas companies, independent gas concerns, and individual producers and
operators. Many of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than TEMI.
Competition may also be presented by alternative fuel sources, including heating oil and other
fossil fuels.

The
Trust s operations are subject to regulations which may limit the Trust s production of natural
gas or the price that the Trust receives for natural gas. 

The production, transportation and sale of natural gas from the Underlying Properties are subject
to Federal and state governmental regulation, including regulation of tariffs charged by pipelines,
taxes, the prevention of waste, the conservation of gas, pollution controls and various other
matters. The United States has governmental power to impose pollution control measures.

Federal Regulation 

The Underlying Properties will be subject to the jurisdiction of FERC with respect to various
aspects of gas operations including the marketing and production of gas. The Natural Gas Act and
the Natural Gas Policy Act (collectively, the  Acts ) mandate Federal regulation of interstate
transportation of gas. The Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 terminated wellhead price
controls on all domestic gas on January 1, 1993. Numerous questions have been raised concerning
the interpretation and implementation

6

Table of Contents   

of several significant provisions of the Acts and of the
regulations and policies promulgated by FERC thereunder. A number of lawsuits and administrative
proceedings have been instituted which challenge the validity of regulations implementing the Acts.
In addition, FERC currently has under consideration various policies and proposals that may affect
the marketing of gas under new and existing contracts. Accordingly, Torch is unable to predict the
impact of any such government regulation.

In the past, Congress has been very active in the area of gas regulation. Recently enacted
legislation repeals incremental pricing requirements and gas use restraints previously applicable.
At the present time, it is impossible to predict what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted
by Congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on
the Underlying Properties and the Trust.

State Regulation 

Many state jurisdictions have at times imposed limitations on the production of gas by restricting
the rate of flow for gas wells below their actual capacity to produce and by imposing acreage
limitations for the drilling of a well. States may also impose additional regulations of these
matters. Most states regulate the production of gas, including requirements for obtaining drilling
permits, the method of developing new fields, provisions for the unitization or pooling of gas
properties, the spacing, operation, plugging and abandonment of wells and the prevention of waste
of gas resources. The rate of production may be regulated and the maximum daily production
allowable from gas wells may be established on a market demand or conservation basis or both.

Because the Trust handles oil and gas petroleum products, the Trust may incur significant costs and
liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental
regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances in the environment. 

Activities on the Underlying Properties are subject to existing Federal, state and local laws,
rules and regulations relating to the protection of public health and welfare, safety and the
environment, including, without limitation, laws regulating the release of materials into the
environment and laws protecting areas of particular environmental concern. It is anticipated that,
absent the occurrence of an unanticipated event, compliance with these laws will not have a
material adverse effect upon the Trust or Unitholders. Torch has informed the Trust that it cannot
predict what effect future regulation or legislation, enforcement policies thereunder, and claims
for damages to property, employees, other persons and the environment resulting from operations
on the Underlying Properties could have on the Trust or Unitholders. However, pursuant to the
terms of the Conveyances, any costs or expenses incurred by TRC or Velasco in connection with
environmental liabilities, to the extent arising out of or relating to activities occurring on, or
in connection with, or conditions existing on or under, the Underlying Properties before October 1,
1993, will be borne by TRC or Velasco and not the Trust and will not be deducted in calculating Net
Proceeds and will, therefore, not reduce amounts payable to the Trust.

Net Proceeds Attributable to the Robinson s Bend Field Have Declined Significantly 

Prior to December 31, 2002, lease operating expenses were not deducted in calculating the Net
Proceeds payable to the Trust from the Robinson s Bend Field. In accordance with the provisions of
the net profits interest conveyance covering the Robinson s Bend Field, commencing with the second
quarter 2003 distribution (pertaining to the quarter ended March 31, 2003 production) lease
operating expenses and capital expenditures have been deducted in calculating Net Proceeds. The
Trust receives no payments for distributions to Unitholders with respect to the Robinson s Bend
Field when proceeds do not exceed the sum of costs and expenses and the cumulative excess of such
costs and expenses including interest ( Robinson s Bend Field Cumulative Deficit ). During the
period from July 1, 2003 to December 31,

 7

Table of Contents   

2005, the Trust did not receive payments with respect to
the Robinson s Bend Field. During such period, Robinson s Bend Field costs and expenses (including
interest) exceeded net revenues by approximately $646,000. During the quarter ended March 31,
2006, Net Proceeds generated from the Net Profits Interests pertaining to the Robinson s Bend Field
exceeded the Robinson s Bend Field Cumulative Deficit. Accordingly, distributions received by
Unitholders during the quarter ended March 31, 2006 included approximately $425,000 of Net Proceeds
from the Net Profits Interests in the Robinson s Bend Field. If a Robinson s Bend Cumulative
Deficit were to develop again, Unitholders would cease to receive proceeds attributable to the
Robinson s Bend Field until future proceeds exceeded future costs and expenses and the cumulative
excess of such costs and expenses including interest.

If the Trust terminates there is no assurance that the Trustee can sell the Net Profits Interests
or the amount it will be sold for. 

The Trust will terminate on March 1 of any year if it is determined that the pre-tax future net
cash flows, discounted at 10%, attributable to the estimated net proved reserves of the Net Profits
Interests on the preceding December 31 are less than $25.0 million. The pre-tax future net cash
flows, discounted at 10%, attributable to estimated net proved reserves of the Net Profits
Interests as of December 31, 2005 was approximately $60.8 million. Such reserve report was prepared
pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines and utilized an unescalated Purchase
Contract price (after gathering, treating and transportation fees) of $5.55 per Mcf. The
computation of the $5.55 per Mcf Purchase Contract price was based on an unescalated Henry Hub spot
price for natural gas on December 31, 2005 of $10.08 per MMBtu. The December 31, 2005 reserve
value was greater than $25.0 million. Therefore, the Trust did not terminate on March 1, 2006.
Based on oil and gas reserve estimates at December 31, 2005 prepared by independent reserve
engineers, Torch projects that unless the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas on December 31, 2006
exceeds approximately $6.25 per MMBtu, the Trust will terminate on March 1, 2007. Upon
termination of the Trust, the Trustee is required to sell the Net Profits Interests. No assurances
can be given that the Trustee will be able to sell the Net Profits Interests, or the amounts that
will be distributed to Unitholders following such a sale. Such distributions could be below the
market price of the Units.

Financial information of the Trust is not prepared in accordance with GAAP. 

The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis of accounting, which is
a comprehensive basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally accepted in the
U.S., or GAAP. Although this basis of accounting is permitted for royalty trusts by the Securities
and Exchange Commission, the financial statements of the trust differ from GAAP financial
statements because net profits income is not accrued in the month of production, expenses are not
recognized when incurred and cash reserves may be established for certain contingencies that would
not be recorded in GAAP financial statements.

The Trust is dependent on Torch and its subsidiaries to provide administrative services to the
Trust.  
Torch is the administrative service provider to the Trust and a party to that certain
Administrative Services Agreement whereby Torch provides certain administrative and related
services to the Trust. See Item 13   Administrative Services Agreement. If Torch and its
subsidiaries or TEMI were to become unable to meet their obligations to the Trust, such inability
might have a material adverse effect on the operations of the Trust.

8

Table of Contents   

<!-- link2 " Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments " -->

   Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

Not applicable.  

<!-- link2 " Item 2. Properties " -->

   Item 2. Properties  

Description of the Underlying Properties 

Chalkley Field . The Underlying Properties in the Chalkley Field, located in Cameron Parish,
Louisiana, include an average 16.2% working interest (12.1% net revenue interest) in four unitized
wells producing from the Miogyp  B  reservoir. The wells produce from a depth in excess of 14,000
feet. A subsidiary of ExxonMobil Corporation operates the unitized wells.

Robinson s Bend Field . The Underlying Properties include an average 33.8% working interest (25.6%
net revenue interest) in 405 wells in the Robinson s Bend Field in the Black Warrior Basin of
Alabama. All of the wells in the Robinson s Bend Field are operated by a third party, Robinson s
Bend Operating II, LLC.

Cotton Valley Fields . The Underlying Properties include an average 30.4% working interest
(23.6% net revenue interest) in 66 wells in four fields that produce from the Upper and Lower
Cotton Valley formations in Texas. A subsidiary of Torch operates 41 of these wells. The
remaining 25 wells are operated by Samson Lone Star Limited Partnership ( Samson ).

Austin Chalk Fields . The Underlying Properties include an average of 16.8% working interest
(13.3% net revenue interest) in 79 wells in the Austin Chalk Fields of Central Texas. Production
from these fields is derived primarily from the highly fractured Austin Chalk formation using
horizontal drilling techniques. A subsidiary of Torch operates two wells in the Austin Chalk
Fields. The remaining wells in the Austin Chalk Fields are operated by third parties.

Oil and Gas Reserves 

The pre-tax future net cash flows, discounted at 10%, attributable to the net proved reserves of
the Net Profits Interests attributable to the Chalkey Field, Cotton Valley Fields, Austin Chalk
Fields and Robinson s Bend Field was approximately $60.8 million as of December 31, 2005. See Note
6 of the audited financial statements for additional information concerning the net proved reserves
of the Net Profits Interests.

Well Count and Acreage Summary 

The following table shows, as of December 31, 2005, the gross and net interest in oil and gas wells
for the Underlying Properties:

9

Table of Contents   

The following table shows the gross and net acreage for the Underlying Properties as of
December 31, 2005. A gross acre in the following table refers to the number of acres in which a
working interest is owned directly by the Trust. The number of net acres is the sum of the
fractional ownership of working interests owned directly by the Trust in the gross acres expressed
as a whole number and percentages thereof. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of
fractional ownership of working interests in gross acres equals one.

10

Table of Contents   

Drilling Activity 

The following table sets forth the results of drilling activity for the Underlying Properties
during the three years ended December 31, 2005. Gross wells, as it applies to wells in the
following table, refers to the number of wells in which a working interest is owned directly by the
owners of the Underlying Properties and Infill Wells ( Gross Well ). A net well ( Net Well )
represents the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in the Gross Wells expressed as
whole numbers and percentages thereof.

All of the wells shown below represent Infill Wells drilled on the Underlying Properties in the
Cotton Valley Fields and the Robinson s Bend Field. The Infill Wells in the Cotton Valley Fields
are operated by Samson and the Infill Wells in the Robinson s Bend Field are operated by Robinson s
Bend Operating II, LLC. The Net Profits Interest entitle the Trust to 20% of Infill Well Net
Proceeds which is defined as gross proceeds from the sale of production attributable to Infill
Wells less all production, drilling and completion costs of such wells. Infill Well Net Proceeds
are calculated by aggregating the proceeds and costs from Infill Wells on a state by state basis.

There was no other drilling activity on the Underlying Properties during the three years ended
December 31, 2005.

11

Table of Contents   

Oil and Gas Sales Prices and Production Costs 

The following table sets forth, for the Underlying Properties, the net production volumes of gas
and oil, the weighted average lifting cost and taxes per Mcfe deducted in calculating Net Proceeds
and the weighted average sales price per Mcf of gas and Bbl of oil for production attributable to
cash distributions received by Unitholders during years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
(derived from production during the twelve months ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively).

(a) 
       
     Prior to December 31, 2002, lease operating expenses were not deducted in calculating the Net
Proceeds payable to the Trust from the Robinson s Bend Field. Commencing with the second
quarter of 2003 distribution (pertaining to the quarter ended March 31, 2003 production) lease
operating expenses and capital expenditures were deducted in calculating Net Proceeds in the
Robinson s Bend Field. 

(b) 
       
     Average sales prices are reflective of purchase prices paid by TEMI, pursuant to the Purchase
Contract, less certain gathering, treating and transportation charges. 

Item 3. Legal Proceedings  

There are no pending legal proceedings, as of the date of this filing, to which the Trust is a
party.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Unitholders   

During the year ended December 31, 2005, no matter was submitted to the Unitholders for a vote.

12

Table of Contents   

PART II 

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Units and Related Unitholder Matters  

The Units are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  TRU.  At March
27, 2006, there were 8,600,000 Units outstanding and approximately 390 Unitholders of record. The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per Unit on
the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) and the amount of quarterly cash distributions per Unit made
by the Trust:

On March 27, 2006, the high and low sales price per unit on the NYSE was $8.20 and $7.97,
respectively.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data   (In thousands, except per Unit amounts)

Distributable income of the Trust consists of the excess of net profits income plus interest
income less general and administrative expenses of the Trust. The Trust recognizes net profits
income during the period in which amounts are received by the Trust.

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Results of Operations  

Discussion of Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 

Because a modified cash basis of accounting is utilized by the Trust, Net Proceeds attributable to
the Underlying Properties for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are derived from
actual oil and gas production from October 1, 2004 through September 30, 2005, October 1, 2003
through September 30, 2004 and October 1, 2002 through September 30, 2003, respectively. The
following tables

13

Table of Contents   

set forth oil and gas sales attributable to the Underlying Properties during the three years ended
December 31, 2005.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, net profits income was $5.8 million, as compared to $6.2
million and $9.0 million for the same periods in 2004 and 2003, respectively. The decrease in net
profits income during 2005 as compared to 2004 is primarily due to an increase in capital
expenditures in 2005 as a result of workovers performed on wells in the Chalkley Field, Cotton
Valley Fields and Austin Chalk Fields. The decrease in net profits income during 2004 as compared
to 2003 is primarily due to the Trust receiving no payments with respect to the Robinson s Bend
Field during 2004 in addition to increased lease operating expenses and capital expenditures in
2004 as compared to 2003.

Commencing with the second quarter of 2003 distribution (pertaining to the quarter ended March 31,
2003 production) lease operating expenses and capital expenditures have been deducted in
calculating Robinson s Bend Net Proceeds. The Trust received approximately $1.3 million in 2003
for payments for distributions to Unitholders with respect to the Robinson s Bend Field. The Trust
received no payments for distributions to Unitholders with respect to the Robinson s Bend Field
during the six months ended December 31, 2003 and during the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2005. During the period from July 1, 2003 to December 31, 2005, Robinson s Bend Field
Cumulative Deficit was approximately $646,000. During the quarter ended March 31, 2006, net
proceeds generated from the Net Profits Interests exceeded Robinson s Bend Field Cumulative
Deficit. Accordingly, distributions received by Unitholders during the quarter ended March 31,
2006 included approximately $425,000 of Net Proceeds from the Net Profits Interests in the
Robinson s Bend Field. If a Robinson s Bend Cumulative Deficit were to develop again, Unitholders
would cease to receive proceeds attributable to the Robinson s Bend Field until future future
proceeds exceeded future costs and expenses and the cumulative excess of such costs and expenses
including interest attributable to the Robinson s Bend Field.

Gas production attributable to the Underlying Properties in the Chalkley, Cotton Valley and Austin
Chalk Fields was 2,088,459 Mcf, 2,495,565 Mcf and 2,834,596 Mcf in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. Gas production attributable to the Underlying Properties in the Robinson s Bend
Field was 1,825,667 Mcf, 1,926,899 Mcf and 2,013,653 Mcf in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Gas
production decreased during each of the years ended December 31, 2005 as a result of normal
production declines. Oil production attributable to the Underlying Properties for the year ended
December 31, 2005 was 22,322 Bbls as compared to 25,407 Bbls and 24,102 Bbls for the same periods
in 2004 and 2003, respectively.

14

Table of Contents   

The average price used to calculate Net Proceeds for gas, before gathering, treating and
transportation deductions, during the year ended December 31, 2005 was $4.43 per MMBtu as compared
to $3.68 and $3.56 per MMBtu for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The
average price used to calculate Net Proceeds for oil during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003 was $46.14, $30.58 and $24.00 per Bbl, respectively. When TEMI pays a purchase price for
gas based on the Minimum Price, TEMI receives Price Credits which it is entitled to deduct in
determining the purchase price when the Index Price for gas exceeds the Minimum Price. As of
December 31, 2005, TEMI had no outstanding Price Credits. No Price Credits were deducted in
calculating the purchase price related to distributions during the three years ended December 31,
2005.

Additionally, if the Index Price for gas exceeds $2.10 per MMBtu, adjusted annually for inflation
($2.18 per MMBtu, $2.13 per MMBtu and $2.12 per MMBtu for 2005, 2004 and 2003 production,
respectively), TEMI is entitled to deduct 50% of such excess in calculating the purchase price.
Such price sharing arrangement reduced Net Proceeds during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004,
and 2003 by $8.9 million, $6.8 million and $6.9 million, respectively.

During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Trust was distributed approximately $708,000
and $443,000, respectively, of Infill Well Proceeds generated from Infill Wells located in the
Cotton Valley Fields. The Trust did not receive any proceeds pertaining to such wells during the
year ended December 31, 2003 as the Infill Wells  costs and expenses exceeded gross revenues prior
to January 1, 2004.

Lease operating expenses and capital expenditures attributable to the Underlying Properties in the
Chalkley, Cotton Valley and Austin Chalk Fields deducted in calculating distributions during the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 totaled $3.4 million, $2.8 million and $2.1 million,
respectively. The increase in costs and expenses during each of the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004 is mainly due to workovers performed on certain wells in the Chalkley, Cotton Valley and
Austin Chalk Fields. Higher insurance expense and increased lease operating expenses in the
Chalkley Field during 2004 also contributed to the increase in costs and expenses in 2004.

General and administrative expenses during each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
amounted to $0.9 million. These expenses primarily relate to administrative services provided by
Torch and the Trustee, and legal fees.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, distributable income was $5.6 million, or $0.65 per Unit, as
compared to $5.7 million, or $0.66 per Unit, and $8.0 million, or $0.93 per Unit, for the same
periods in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Total cash distributions of $5.6 million, or $0.65 per
Unit, were made during the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to $5.7 million, or $0.67 per
Unit, and $8.0 million, or $0.93 per Unit, for the same periods in 2004 and 2003, respectively.

15

Table of Contents   

Net profits received by the Trust during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, derived
from production sold during the twelve months ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively, was computed as shown in the following table (in thousands):

(a) 
       
     Commencing with the second quarter 2003 distribution (pertaining to production during the
quarter ended March 31, 2003), lease operating expenses and capital expenditures were deducted
in calculating Net Proceeds from the Robinson s Bend Field. Lease operating expenses and
capital expenditures (in thousands) were $6,749, $5,988 and $5,969 during 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. 

(b) 
       
     With respect to the Robinson s Bend Field, the Trust received no cash distributions during
the six months ended December 31, 2003 and during each of the years ended December 31, 2004
and 2005. During such periods, the Robinson s Bend Field costs and expenses (including
interest) exceeded revenues by approximately $646,000. 

Termination of the Trust  

The Trust will terminate on March 1 of any year if it is determined that the pre-tax future net
cash flows, discounted at 10%, attributable to estimated net proved reserves of the Net Profits
Interests on the preceding December 31 are less than $25.0 million. The pre-tax future net cash
flows, discounted at 10%, attributable to estimated net proved reserves of the Net Profits
Interests as of December 31, 2005 was approximately $60.8 million. Such reserve report was prepared
pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines and utilized an unescalated Henry Hub
spot price for natural gas on December 31, 2005 of $10.08 per MMBtu. The December 31, 2005 reserve
value was greater than $25.0 million. Therefore, the Trust did not terminate on March 1, 2006.
Based on oil and gas reserve estimates at December 31, 2005 prepared by independent reserve
engineers, Torch projects that unless the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas on December 31, 2006
exceeds approximately $6.25 per MMBtu, the Trust will terminate on March 1, 2007. Upon termination
of the Trust, the Trustee is required to sell the Net Profits Interests. No assurances can be
given that the Trustee will be able to sell the Net Profits Interests, or the price that will be
distributed to Unitholders following such a sale. Such distributions could be below the market
value of the Units.

16

Table of Contents   

Critical Accounting Policy  

Reserve Estimates 

The proved reserves of the Trust are estimated quantities of oil and gas which geological and
engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, to be recoverable in future years from
known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. The accuracy of any reserve
estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering and geological interpretation,
and judgement. For example, estimates are made regarding the amount and timing of future operating
costs, production volumes and severance taxes, all of which may in fact vary considerably from
actual results. In addition, as prices and cost levels change from year to year, the estimate of
proved reserves also change. Any variance in these assumptions could materially affect the
estimated quantity and value of the Trust s reserves.

Despite the inherent imprecision in these engineering estimates, the reserves are significant to
the potential automatic termination of the Trust if it is determined that the pre-tax future net
cash flows, discounted at 10%, attributable to the estimated net proved reserves of the Net Profits
Interests are less than $25.0 million. Independent petroleum engineering firms are engaged to
estimate the Trust s proved hydrocarbon liquid and gas reserves.

Modified Cash Basis 

The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis although financial
statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are normally required to be prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Since the
operations of the Trust are limited to the distribution of income from the Net Profits Interests,
the item of primary importance to the reader of the financial statements of the Trust is the amount
of cash distributions to the Unitholders for the period reported.

Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

The Trust is exposed to market risk, including adverse changes in commodity prices. The Trust s
assets constitute Net Profits Interests in the Underlying Properties. As a result, the Trust s
operating results can be significantly affected by fluctuations in commodity prices caused by
changing market forces and the price received for production from the Underlying Properties.

All production from the Underlying Properties is sold pursuant to a Purchase Contract between TRC,
Velasco, and TEMI. Pursuant to the Purchase Contract, TEMI is obligated to purchase all net
production attributable to the Underlying Properties for an Index Price, less certain other
charges, which are calculated monthly. The Index Price calculation is based on market prices of
oil and gas and therefore is subject to commodity price risk. The Purchase Contract expires upon
termination of the Trust and provides a Minimum Price paid by TEMI for gas. The Minimum Price is
adjusted annually for inflation and was $1.77, $1.73 and $1.71 per MMBtu for 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. When TEMI pays a purchase price based on the Minimum Price, it receives Price
Credits equal to the difference between the Index Price and the Minimum Price that it is entitled
to deduct when the Index Price exceeds the Minimum Price. Additionally, if the Index Price exceeds
the Sharing Price, TEMI is entitled to deduct such excess, the Price Differential. The Sharing
Price was $2.18, $2.13 and $2.12 per MMBtu in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. TEMI has an
annual option to discontinue the Minimum Price commitment. However, if TEMI discontinues the
Minimum Price commitment, it will no longer be entitled to deduct the Price Differential and will
forfeit all accrued Price Credits. TEMI has not exercised its option to discontinue the Minimum
Price Commitment.

17

Table of Contents   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

18

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Wilmington Trust Company 
as Trustee of Torch Energy Royalty Trust 
and to the Unitholders:

We have audited the accompanying statements of assets, liabilities and trust corpus of the Torch
Energy Royalty Trust (the  Trust ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related statements of
distributable income and changes in trust corpus for the years then ended. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Trustee. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As described in Note 2, the financial statements are prepared on a modified cash basis of
accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of the Trust as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of
its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with the basis of
accounting described in Note 2.

\s\ UHY Mann Frankfort Stein   Lipp CPAs, LLP  
Houston, Texas 
March 30, 2006

19

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Wilmington Trust Company 
as Trustee of Torch Energy Royalty Trust 
and to the Unitholders:

We have audited the accompanying statements of distributable income and changes in trust corpus of
the Torch Energy Royalty Trust (the  Trust ) for the year ended December 31, 2003. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Trustee. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As described in Note 2, the financial statements are prepared on a modified cash basis of
accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects
the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2003 in conformity
with the accounting principles described in Note 2.

\s\ Ernst   Young LLP  
Houston, Texas 
March 25, 2004

20

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

STATEMENTS OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND TRUST CORPUS 
(In thousands)

ASSETS

LIABILITIES AND TRUST CORPUS

The accompanying notes to financial statements 
are an integral part of these statements.

21

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

STATEMENTS OF DISTRIBUTABLE INCOME 
(In thousands, except per Unit amounts)

The accompanying notes to financial statements 
are an integral part of these statements.

22

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN TRUST CORPUS 
(In thousands)

The accompanying notes to financial statements 
are an integral part of these statements.

23

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

Notes to Financial Statements 

1. 
       
     Nature of Operations 

The Torch Energy Royalty Trust ( Trust ) was formed effective October 1, 1993, pursuant to a trust
agreement ( Trust Agreement ) among Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee ( Trustee ), Torch Royalty
Company ( TRC ) and Velasco Gas Company, Ltd. ( Velasco ) as owners of certain oil and gas
properties ( Underlying Properties ) and Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated ( Torch ) as grantor.
TRC and Velasco created net profits interests ( Net Profits Interests ) and conveyed such interests
to Torch. Torch conveyed the Net Profits Interests to the Trust in exchange for an aggregate of
8,600,000 units of beneficial interest ( Units ). Such Units were sold to the public through
various underwriters in November 1993.

The Trust will terminate upon the first to occur of: (i) an affirmative vote of the holders of not
less than 66-2/3% of the outstanding Units to liquidate the Trust; (ii) such time as the ratio of
the cash amounts received by the Trust from the Net Profits Interests to administrative costs of
the Trust is less than 1.2 to 1.0 for three consecutive quarters; (iii) March 1 of any year if it
is determined based on a reserve report as of December 31 of the prior year that the present value
of estimated pre-tax future net cash flows, discounted at 10%, of proved reserves attributable to
the Net Profits Interests is equal to or less than $25.0 million; or (iv) December 31, 2012. After
termination of the Trust, the remaining assets of the Trust will be sold, and the proceeds
therefrom (after expenses) will be distributed to the unitholders ( Unitholders ). The sole
purpose of the Trust is to hold the Net Profits Interests, to receive payments from TRC and
Velasco, and to make payments to Unitholders. The Trust does not conduct any business activity.

TRC and Velasco receive payments reflecting the proceeds of oil and gas sold and aggregate these
payments, deduct applicable costs and make payments to the Trustee each quarter for the amounts due
to the Trust. Unitholders receive quarterly cash distributions relating to oil and gas produced
and sold from the Underlying Properties. Because no additional properties will be contributed to
the Trust, the assets of the Trust deplete over time and a portion of each cash distribution made
by the Trust is analogous to a return of capital.

The only assets of the Trust, other than cash and temporary investments being held for the payment
of expenses and liabilities and for distribution to Unitholders, are the Net Profits Interests.
Under the Trust Agreement, the Trustee receives the payments attributable to the Net Profits
Interests and pays all expenses, liabilities and obligations of the Trust. The Trustee has the
discretion to establish a cash reserve for the payment of any liability that is contingent or
uncertain in amount or that otherwise is not currently due and payable. The Trustee is entitled to
cause the Trust to borrow money to pay expenses, liabilities and obligations that cannot be paid
out of cash held by the Trust. The Trustee is entitled to cause the Trust to borrow from any
source, including from the entity serving as Trustee, provided that the entity serving as Trustee
shall not be obligated to lend to the Trust. To secure payment of any such indebtedness (including
any indebtedness to the Trustee), the Trustee is authorized to (i) mortgage and otherwise encumber
the entire Trust estate or any portion thereof; (ii) carve out and convey production payments;
(iii) include all terms, powers, remedies, covenants and provisions it deems necessary or
advisable, including confession of judgement and the power of sale with or without judicial
proceedings; and (iv) provide for the exercise of those and other remedies available to a secured
lender in the event of a default on such loan. The terms of such indebtedness and security
interest, if funds were loaned by the Trustee, must be similar to the terms which the Trustee would
grant to a similarly situated commercial customer with whom it did not have a fiduciary
relationship, and the Trustee shall be entitled to enforce its rights with respect to any such
indebtedness and security interest as if it were not then serving as Trustee.

24

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

Notes to Financial Statements 

The Trustee is authorized and directed to sell and convey the Net Profits Interests without
Unitholder approval in certain instances as described in the Trust Agreement, including upon
termination of the Trust. The Trustee is empowered by the Trust Agreement to employ consultants
and agents (including Torch) and to make payments of all fees for services or expenses out of the
assets of the Trust.

2. 
       
     Basis of Accounting 

The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis and are not intended to
present the financial position and results of operations in conformity with accepted accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). Preparation of the Trust s
financial statements on such basis includes the following:

Revenues are recognized in the period in which amounts are received by the Trust. Therefore, revenues recognized
during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are derived from oil and gas production sold during the
twelve-month periods ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. General and administrative expenses are
recognized on an accrual basis. 

Amortization of the Net Profits Interests is calculated on a unit-of-production basis and charged directly to trust
corpus. 

Distributions to Unitholders are recorded when declared by the Trustee. 

An impairment loss is recognized when the net carrying value of the Net Profits Interests exceeds its fair market
value. No such impairment was recorded during the three years ended December 31, 2005. 

The financial statements of the Trust differ from financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP because net
profits income is not accrued in the period of production and amortization of the Net Profits Interests is not charged
against operating results. 

3. 
       
     Federal Income Taxes 

Tax counsel has advised the Trustee that, under current tax law, the Trust is classified as a
grantor trust for Federal income tax purposes and not an association taxable as a business entity.
However, the opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service. As a grantor
trust, the Trust is not subject to Federal income tax.

Because the Trust is treated as a grantor trust for Federal income tax purposes and a Unitholder is
treated as directly owning an interest in the Net Profits Interests, each Unitholder is taxed
directly on such Unitholder s pro rata share of income attributable to the Net Profits Interests
consistent with the Unitholder s method of accounting and without regard to the taxable year or
accounting method employed by the Trust. Amounts payable with respect to the Net Profits Interests
are paid to the Trust on the quarterly record date established for quarterly distributions in
respect to each calendar quarter during the term of the Trust, and the income and deductions from
such payments are allocated to the Unitholders of record on such date.

25

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

Notes to Financial Statements 

4. 
       
     Distributions and Income Computations 

Each quarter the amount of cash available for distribution to Unitholders (the  Quarterly
Distribution Amount ) is equal to the excess, if any, of the cash received by the Trust, on the
last day of the second month following the previous calendar quarter (or the next business day
thereafter) ending prior to the dissolution of the Trust, from the Net Profits Interests then held
by the Trust plus, with certain exceptions, any other cash receipts of the Trust during such
quarter, subject to adjustments for changes made by the Trustee during such quarter in any cash
reserves established for the payment of contingent or future obligations of the Trust. Based on
the payment procedures relating to the Net Profits Interest, cash received by the Trust on the last
day of the second month of a particular quarter from the Net Profits Interests generally represents
proceeds from the sale of oil and gas produced from the Underlying Properties during the preceding
calendar quarter. The Quarterly Distribution Amount for each quarter is payable to Unitholders of
record on the last day of the second month of the calendar quarter unless such day is not a
business day, in which case the record date is the next business day thereafter. The Trust
distributes the Quarterly Distribution Amount within approximately 10 days after the record date to
each person who was a Unitholder of record on the associated record date.

5. 
       
     Related Party Transactions 

Marketing Arrangements 

TRC and Velasco contracted to sell the oil and gas production from the Underlying Properties to
Torch Energy Marketing, Inc. ( TEMI ), a subsidiary of Torch, under a purchase contract ( Purchase
Contract ). Under the Purchase Contract, TEMI is obligated to purchase all net production
attributable to the Underlying Properties for an index price for oil and gas ( Index Price ), less
certain gathering, treating and transportation charges, which are calculated monthly. The Index
Price equals 97% of the average spot market prices of oil and gas ( Average Market Prices ) at the
four locations where TEMI sells production.

The Purchase Contract also provides that a minimum price paid by TEMI for gas production is $1.70
per MMBtu adjusted annually for inflation ( Minimum Price ). When TEMI pays a purchase price based
on the Minimum Price it receives price credits ( Price Credits ) equal to the difference between
the Index Price and the Minimum Price that it is entitled to deduct in determining the purchase
price when the Index Price for gas exceeds the Minimum Price. Price Credits are computed on a
monthly basis. As of December 31, 2005, TEMI had no outstanding Price Credits. No Price Credits
were deducted in calculating the purchase price related to distributions received by Unitholders
during the three years ended December 31, 2005.

In addition, if the Index Price for gas exceeds $2.10 per MMBtu adjusted annually for inflation
( Sharing Price ), TEMI is entitled to deduct 50% of such excess ( Price Differential ) in
determining the purchase price. As a result of such Sharing Price arrangement, Net Proceeds
attributable to the Underlying Properties during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
were reduced by $8.9 million, $6.8 million and $6.9 million, respectively. TEMI has an annual
option to discontinue the Minimum Price commitment. However, if TEMI discontinues the Minimum
Price commitment, it will no longer be entitled to deduct the Price Differential in calculating the
purchase price and will forfeit all accrued Price Credits. TEMI has not exercised its option to
discontinue the Minimum Price Commitment. The Minimum Price in 2005, 2004 and 2003 was
approximately $1.77, $1.73 and $1.71 per MMBtu for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Sharing
Price in 2005, 2004 and 2003 was approximately $2.18, $2.13 and $2.12 per MMBtu, respectively.

26

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

Notes to Financial Statements 

Gross revenues (before deductions for applicable gathering, treating and transportation charges)
from TEMI included in the Net Proceeds calculations attributable to the Underlying Properties for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $19.2 million, $17.7 million and $18.5
million, respectively.

Gas production is purchased at the wellhead and, therefore, distributions do not include any
amounts received in connection with extracting natural gas liquids from such production at gas
processing or treating facilities.

Gathering, Treating and Transportation Arrangements 

The Purchase Contract entitles TEMI to deduct certain gas gathering, treating and transportation
costs in calculating the purchase price for gas in the Robinson s Bend, Austin Chalk and Cotton
Valley Fields. The amounts that may be deducted in calculating the purchase price for such gas are
set forth in the Purchase Contract and are not affected by the actual costs incurred by TEMI to
gather, treat and transport gas. In the Robinson s Bend Field, TEMI is entitled to deduct a
gathering, treating and transportation fee of $0.26 per MMBtu adjusted annually for inflation
($0.298, $0.292 and $0.289 per MMBtu for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, plus fuel usage equal
to 5% of revenues, payable to Bahia Gas Gathering, Ltd. ( Bahia ), a subsidiary of Torch, pursuant
to a gas gathering agreement. Additionally, a fee of $0.05 per MMBtu, representing a gathering fee
payable to a non-affiliate of Torch, is deducted in calculating the purchase price for production
from 68 of the 394 wells in the Robinson s Bend Field. TEMI also deducts $0.38 per MMBtu plus 17%
of revenues in calculating the purchase price for production from the Austin Chalk Fields, as a fee
to gather, treat and transport gas production. TEMI deducts from the purchase price for gas in the
Cotton Valley Fields a transportation fee of $0.045 per MMBtu for production attributable to
certain wells. This transportation fee is paid to a third party. During the years ended December
31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, such fees deducted from the Net Proceeds calculations, attributable to
production during the twelve months ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, in the Robinson s
Bend, Austin Chalk and Cotton Valley Fields, totaled $1.6 million, $1.4 million and $1.3 million,
respectively. No amounts for gathering, treating or transportation are deducted in calculating the
purchase price from the Chalkley Field.

Operator Overhead Fees 

A subsidiary of Torch operates certain oil and gas interests burdened by the Net Profits Interests
in the Cotton Valley and Austin Chalk Fields. The Underlying Properties are charged, on the same
basis as other third parties, for all customary expenses and costs reimbursements associated with
these activities. Operator overhead fees deducted from the Net Proceeds computations for the
Cotton Valley and Austin Chalk fields totaled $184,000, $184,000 and $176,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Administrative Services Agreement 

Pursuant to the Trust Agreement, Torch and the Trust entered into an administrative services
agreement, effective October 1, 1993. The Trust is obligated, throughout the term of the Trust, to
pay to Torch each quarter an administrative services fee for accounting, bookkeeping, informational
and other services relating to the Net Profits Interests. The administrative services fee is
$87,500 per calendar quarter commencing October 1, 1993. The amount of the administrative services
fee is adjusted annually, based upon the change in the Producer s Price Index as published by the
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor

27

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

Notes to Financial Statements 

Statistics. Administrative services fees of $400,000, $391,000 and $388,000 were paid by the Trust
to Torch during the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Compensation of the Trustee and Transfer Agent 

The Trust Agreement provides that the Trustee be compensated for its administrative services, out
of the Trust assets, in an annual amount of $41,000, plus an hourly charge for services in excess
of a combined total of 250 hours annually at its standard rate. The Trustee receives a transfer
agency fee of $5.00 annually per account (minimum of $15,000 annually), subject to change each
December based upon the change in the Producer s Price Index as published by the Department of
Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, plus $1.00 for each certificate issued. The Trustee is also
entitled to reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses. Total administrative and transfer agent fees
charged by the Trustee were $84,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. Total administrative and
transfer agent fees charged by the Trustee were $56,000 in each of the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003.

6. 
       
     Supplemental Oil and Gas Information (Unaudited) 

Total proved oil and gas reserves attributable to the Net Profits Interests as of December 31, 2005
and 2004 are based upon reserve reports prepared by T.J. Smith   Company, Inc. and Netherland,
Sewell   Associates, Inc. Total proved oil and gas reserves attributable to the Net Profits
Interests as of December 31, 2003 are based on reserve reports prepared by T.J. Smith   Company,
Inc., Netherland, Sewell   Associates, Inc. and Ryder Scott Company, L.P. ( Independent Reserve
Engineers ). Future net cash flows were computed by applying end-of-period Purchase Contract
prices for oil and gas to estimated future production, less the estimated future expenditures
(based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the reserves.

Reserve Quantities:

The following table sets forth the estimated total proved and proved developed oil and gas reserves
attributable to the Trust s Net Profits Interests (all located in the United States) for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, based on reserve reports prepared by Independent Reserve
Engineers. As a net profits interest does not entitle the Trust to a specific quantity of oil or
gas, but to a portion of oil and gas sufficient to yield a specified portion of the net proceeds
derived therefrom, proved reserves attributable to a net profits interest are calculated by
deducting an amount of oil or gas sufficient, if sold at the prices used in preparing the reserve
estimates for the Underlying Properties, to pay an amount of applicable future estimated production
expenses, development costs and taxes for such Underlying Properties ( Net Equivalent Volumes ).
The use of disclosing Net Equivalent Volumes to estimate reserve volumes attributable to the Net
Profits Interests is standard practice in the industry.

Year-end reserves at December 31, 2005 were 19.5 billion cubic feet equivalent ( Bcfe ) as compared
to year-end 2004 and 2003 reserves of 14.4 Bcfe and 14.5 Bcfe, respectively. In accordance with
Securities and Exchange Commission reporting guidelines, year-end reserves and the related future
net revenues attributable to the Trust s Net Profits Interests are estimated utilizing the Purchase
Contract Price for gas, after gathering fees ($5.55, $4.18 and $4.11 per Mcf for 2005, 2004 and
2003). Such Purchase Contract prices were calculating utilizing the Henry Hub gas prices on the
last day of the entity s fiscal year ($10.08, $6.18 and $5.97 per MMBtu for 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively). The favorable revision of the estimated gas volumes and the related present value
of the estimated future net revenues during 2005 are primarily due to the increase in the natural
gas price on December 31, 2005 as compared to the gas price on December 31, 2004 and 2003. As of
December 31, 2005, the Robinson s Bend Field s estimated

28

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

Notes to Financial Statements 

reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties was 5.8 Bcf. The present value of the estimated
future net revenues, discounted at 10%, attributable to the Underlying Properties in the Robinson s
Bend Field is approximately $13.3 million. The Robinson s Bend Field estimated reserves
attributable to the Underlying Properties as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 were
estimated to have no value.

Oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2003 were restated to reflect Net Equivalent Volumes. The
oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2003 reflected in the Trust s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2003 (20.2 Bcfe) reflected an estimate of the total production
anticipated from the Underlying Properties, net to the Trust s net profits interest percentage.
The reserve restatement had no effect on the Statement of Assets, Liabilities and Trust Corpus as
of December 31, 2003, or the Statement of Distributable Income and Statement of Changes in Trust
Corpus for the year ended December 31, 2003. Additionally, the restatement had no impact on the
estimate of the future net cash flows as of Decemeber 31, 2003.

29

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

Notes to Financial Statements 

Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
(in thousands):

Estimated future net cash flows from the Net Profits Interests in proved oil and gas reserves at
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are presented in the following table:

The following table sets forth the changes in the present value of estimated future net
revenues from proved reserves attributable to the Trust s Net Profits Interests during the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

Estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves of gas and oil condensate were made in
accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement 69,  Disclosure about Oil and Gas
Producing Activities.  The Trust has not filed or included in reports to any other Federal
authority or agency any estimates of proved net oil and gas reserves.

30

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

Notes to Financial Statements 

7. 
       
     Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited   in thousands, except per Unit amounts) 

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, summarized quarterly financial data:

31

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

During August 2004, E Y resigned as the Trust s independent auditor based upon its annual review of
its audit client portfolio. The Trust had no disagreements with Ernst   Young LLP ( E Y )
concerning their audit or the application of accounting principles. On October 21, 2004, the Trust
engaged UHY Mann Frankfort Stein   Lipp CPAs, LLP ( UHY ) as its principal independent registered
public accountants.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  

Based on their evaluation as of December 31, 2005, the Trustee has concluded that the Trust s
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act )) are effective to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by the Trust in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and
forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Trustee, in making these determinations, has
relied to the extent reasonable on information provided by Torch.

There were no changes in the Trust s internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule
13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act during the quarter ended December 31, 2005 that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Trust s internal control over
financing reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information  

None.

32

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

PART III 

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The Registrant has no directors or executive officers. The Trustee is a corporate trustee that may
be removed as trustee under the Trust Agreement, with or without cause, at a meeting duly called
and held by the affirmative vote of Unitholders of not less than a majority of all the Units then
outstanding. Any such removal of the Trustee shall be effective only at such time as a successor
trustee fulfilling the requirements of Section 3807(a) of the Delaware Business Trust Act has been
appointed and has accepted such appointment.

The Registrant has not adopted a code of ethics applicable to its principal executive officer,
principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing
similar functions because the Trust does not have any such officers.

Item 11. Executive Compensation  

The following is a description of certain fees and expenses paid or borne by the Trust, including
fees paid to Torch, the Trustee, the transfer agent or their affiliates.

Ongoing Administrative Expenses.  The Trust is responsible for paying all legal, accounting,
engineering and stock exchange fees, printing costs and other administrative and out-of-pocket
expenses incurred by or at the direction of the Trustee in its capacity as Trustee and/or transfer
agent.

Compensation of the Trustee and Transfer Agent.  The Trust Agreement provides that the Trustee be
compensated for its administrative services, out of the Trust assets, in an annual amount of
$41,000, plus an hourly charge for services in excess of a combined total of 250 hours annually at
its standard rate. In accordance with provisions in the Trust Agreement, the Trustee may increase
its compensation for its administrative serves as a result of unusual or extraordinary services
rendered by the Trustee. During 2005, due to the impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on the Trust,
the Trustee increased its compensation for administrative services to $80,000 per year.

Additionally, the Trustee receives a transfer agency fee of $5.00 annually per account (minimum of
$15,000 annually), subject to change each December, beginning December 1994, based upon the change
in the Producer s Price Index as published by the Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics,
plus $1.00 for each certificate issued. The Trustee is entitled to reimbursement for out-of-pocket
expenses.

Fees to Torch.  Torch will receive, throughout the term of the Trust, an administrative services
fee for accounting, bookkeeping and informational services related to the Net Profits Interests as
described below in  Item 13   Administrative Services Agreement. 

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  

The following table sets forth, as of March 28, 2006, certain information with respect to the
ownership of Units held by all persons known by the Company to be the beneficial owners of 5% or
more of the outstanding Units. Information set forth in the table with respect to beneficial
ownership of Units has been obtained from filings made by the named beneficial owners with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as of March 28, 2006. The Trust has no officers or directors.
The Trust does not have an  Equity Compensation Plan .

33

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

(1) Information is based on a 13D/A filed with the SEC on March 24, 2006, on behalf of
Barington Companies Equity Partners, L.P., Barington Companies Investors, LLC, Barington Companies Offshore
Fund, Ltd. (BVI), Barington Investments, L.P., Barington Companies Advisors, LLC, Barington Capital
Group, L.P., LNA Capital Corp., James Mitarotonda, Alpine Associates, A Limited Partnership, Alpine
Partners, L.P., Alpine Associates II, L.P., Palisades Partners, L.P., Eckert Corporation, Victoria
Eckert, Gordon A. Uehling, Jr., Arbitrage   Trading Management Company and Robert E. Zoellner. As
reported, each entity generally has sole voting and dispositive power over the securities it
beneficially owns.

Barington Companies Equity Partners, L.P. beneficially owns an aggregate of 37,600 Units. As
the general partner of Barington Companies Equity Partners, L.P., Barington Companies Investors,
LLC may be deemed to beneficially own the 37,600 Units owned by Barington Companies Equity
Partners, L.P.

Barington Companies Offshore Fund, Ltd. (BVI) beneficially owns 28,200 Units. Barington Investments, L.P. beneficially
owns 28,200 Units. As the investment advisor to Barington Companies Offshore Fund, Ltd. (BVI) and
the general partner of Barington Investments, L.P., Barington Companies Advisors, LLC may be deemed
to beneficially own the 28,200 Units owned by Barington Companies Offshore Fund, Ltd. (BVI) and the
28,200 Units owned by Barington Investments, L.P. As the Managing Member of Barington Companies
Advisors, LLC, Barington Capital Group, L.P. may be deemed to beneficially own the 28,200 Units
beneficially owned by Barington Investments, L.P. and the 28,200 Units owned by Barington Companies
Offshore Fund, Ltd. (BVI). As the majority member of Barington Companies Investors, LLC, Barington
Capital Group, L.P. may also be deemed to beneficially own the 37,600 Units owned by Barington
Companies Equity Partners, L.P. As the general partner of Barington Capital Group, L.P., LNA
Capital Corp. may be deemed to beneficially own the 37,600 Units owned by Barington Companies
Equity Partners, L.P., the 28,200 Units beneficially owned by Barington Investments, L.P. and the
28,200 Units owned by Barington Companies Offshore Fund, Ltd. (BVI). As the sole stockholder and
director of LNA Capital Corp., Mr. Mitarotonda may be deemed to beneficially own the 37,600 Units
owned by Barington Companies Equity Partners, L.P., the 28,200 Units beneficially owned by
Barington Investments, L.P. and the 28,200 Units owned by Barington Companies Offshore Fund, Ltd.
(BVI). Mr. Mitarotonda has sole voting and dispositive power with respect to the 37,600 Units
owned by Barington Companies Equity Partners, L.P., the 28,200 Units beneficially owned by
Barington Investments, L.P. and the 28,200 Units owned by Barington Companies Offshore Fund, Ltd.
(BVI).

Alpine Associates, A Limited Partnership beneficially owns 273,000 Units. Alpine Partners,
L.P. beneficially owns 45,000 Units. Alpine Associates II, L.P. beneficially owns 22,200 Units.
Palisades Partners, L.P. beneficially owns approximately 12,200 Units. As the general partner of
each of Alpine Associates, A Limited Partnership, Alpine Partners, L.P. and Alpine Associates II,
L.P., Eckert Corporation may be deemed to beneficially own the 273,000 Units owned by Alpine
Associates, A Limited Partnership, the 45,000 Units owned by Alpine Partners, L.P. and the 22,200
Units owned by Alpine Associates II, L.P. As the sole stockholder and director of Eckert
Corporation, Ms. Eckert may be deemed to beneficially own the 273,000 Units owned by Alpine
Associates, A Limited Partnership, the 45,000 Units owned by Alpine Partners, L.P. and the 22,200
Units owned by Alpine Associates II, L.P.

As the general partner of Palisades Partners, L.P., Mr. Uehling may be deemed to beneficially
own the 12,200 Units owned by Palisades Partners, L.P. Pursuant to investment advisory agreements
with each of Alpine Associates II, L.P. and Palisades Partners, L.P., Arbitrage   Trading
Management Company may be deemed to beneficially own (but they do not have voting power over the
22,200 Units owned by Alpine Associates II, L.P. and the 12,200 Units owned by Palisades Partners,
L.P. As the owner and operator of Arbitrage   Trading

34

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

Management Company, Mr. Zoellner may be deemed to beneficially own the 22,200 Units owned by
Alpine Associates II, L.P. and the 12,200 Units owned by Palisades Partners, L.P.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  

Administrative Services Agreement 

Pursuant to the Trust Agreement, Torch and the Trust entered into the Administrative Services
Agreement effective October 1, 1993. The following summary of certain provisions of the
Administrative Services Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is
qualified in its entirety by reference to, the provisions of the Administrative Services Agreement.

The Trust is obligated, throughout the term of the Trust, to pay to Torch each quarter an
administrative services fee for accounting, bookkeeping, informational and other services relating
to the Net Profits Interests. The administrative services fee is $87,500 per calendar quarter,
adjusted annually, based upon the change in the Producer s Price Index as published by the
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. Administrative services fees of $400,000,
$391,000 and $388,000 were paid by the Trust to Torch during the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.

Marketing Arrangement 

TRC and Velasco contracted to sell the oil and gas production from the Underlying Properties to
TEMI under a Purchase Contract. Under the Purchase Contract, TEMI is obligated to purchase all net
production attributable to the Underlying Properties for an Index Price for oil and gas less
certain gathering, treating and transportation charges, which are calculated monthly. The Purchase
Contract also provides that TEMI pay the Minimum Price for gas production. When TEMI pays a
purchase price based on the Minimum Price, it receives Price Credits equal to the difference
between the Index Price and the Minimum Price that it is entitled to deduct in determining the
purchase price when the Index Price for gas exceeds the Minimum Price. Price Credits are computed
on a monthly basis, and as of December 31, 2005, TEMI had no outstanding Price Credits.

In addition, if the Index Price for gas exceeds the Sharing Price, TEMI is entitled to deduct the
Price Differential in determining the purchase price. As a result of such Sharing Price
arrangement, Net Proceeds attributable to the Underlying Properties during the years ended December
31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were reduced by $8.9 million, $6.8 million and $6.9 million, respectively.
TEMI has an annual option to discontinue the Minimum Price commitment. However, if TEMI
discontinues the Minimum Price commitment, it will no longer be entitled to deduct the Price
Differential in calculating the purchase price and will forfeit all accrued Price Credits. TEMI
has not exercised its option to discontinue the Minimum Price Commitment. The Minimum Price in
2005, 2004 and 2003 was approximately $1.77, $1.73 and $1.71 per MMBtu, respectively. The Sharing
Price in 2005, 2004 and 2003 was approximately $2.18, $2.13 and $2.12 per MMBtu, respectively.

Gross revenues (before deductions for applicable gathering, treating and transportation charges)
from TEMI included in the Net Proceeds calculation attributable to the Underlying Properties for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $19.2 million, $17.7 million and $18.5
million, respectively.

35

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

Gathering, Treating and Transportation Arrangements 

The Purchase Contract entitles TEMI to deduct certain gas gathering, treating and transportation
costs in calculating the purchase price for gas in the Robinson s Bend, Austin Chalk and Cotton
Valley Fields. The amounts that may be deducted in calculating the purchase price for such gas are
set forth in the Purchase Contract and are not affected by the actual costs incurred by TEMI to
gather, treat and transport gas. In the Robinson s Bend Field, TEMI is entitled to deduct a
gathering, treating and transportation fee of $0.26 per MMBtu commencing October 1, 1993 adjusted
for inflation ($0.298, $0.292 and $0.289 per MMBtu for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively), plus
fuel usage equal to 5% of revenues, payable to Bahia Gas Gathering, Ltd., a subsidiary of Torch,
pursuant to a gas gathering agreement. Additionally, a fee of $0.05 per MMBtu, representing a
gathering fee payable to a non-affiliate of Torch, is deducted in calculating the purchase price
for production from 68 of the 394 wells in the Robinson s Bend Field. TEMI also deducts $0.38 per
MMBtu plus 17% of revenues in calculating the purchase price for production from the Austin Chalk
Fields, as a fee to gather, treat and transport gas production. TEMI deducts from the purchase
price for gas a transportation fee of $0.045 MMBtu for production attributable to certain wells in
the Cotton Valley Fields. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, gas gathering,
treating and transportation fees, deducted by TEMI from the Net Proceeds calculations attributable
to production during the twelve months ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 in the Robinson s
Bend, Austin Chalk and Cotton Valley Fields, totaled $1.6 million, $1.4 million and $1.3 million,
respectively. No amounts for gathering, treating or transportation are deducted in calculating the
purchase price from the Chalkley Field.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

The Trust does not have an audit committee, and has no audit committee pre-approval policy with
respect to fees paid to UHY. Any pre-approval of services performed by UHY and related fees is
granted by Torch and the Trustee. The outside auditors are appointed and engaged by Torch and the
Trustee. Fees for services performed by UHY for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 are:

36

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

PART IV 

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1.  
       
      Financial Statements:  

Torch Energy Royalty Trust

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms 
Statements of Assets, Liabilities and Trust Corpus at December 31, 2005 and 2004 
Statements of Distributable Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 
Statements of Changes in Trust Corpus for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 
Notes to Financial Statements

2.  
       
      Financial Statement Schedules  

Financial statement schedules are omitted because of the absence of conditions under which they
are required or because the required information is included in the financial statements and
notes thereto.

Exhibit   
  Number Exhibit  

4. 

Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures. 

4.1   -     Form of Torch Energy Royalty Trust Agreement.* 

4.2   -     Form of Louisiana Trust Agreement.* 

4.3   -     Specimen Trust Unit Certificate.* 

4.4   -     Designation of Ancillary Trustee.* 

10. 

Material Contracts. 

10.1  -     Purchase Agreement between TRC, Velasco and TEMI.* 

10.2  -     Gas Gathering Agreement between TEMI and Bahia Gas Gathering, Ltd.* 

10.3  -     Amendment to Gas Gathering Agreement.* 

10.4  -     Water Gathering and Disposal Agreement between Torch Energy Associates, Ltd. and Velasco.* 

10.5  -     Form of Texas Conveyance.* 

10.6  -     Form of Louisiana Conveyance.* 

10.7  -     Form of Alabama Conveyance.* 

10.8  -     Standby Performance Agreement between Torch and the Trust.* 

10.9  -     Amendment to Water Gathering Contract.* 

10.10  -     First Amendment to Oil and Gas Purchase Contract (previously filed on form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994). * 

23. 

Consents of Experts and Counsel. 

23.1  -     Consent of T.J. Smith   Company, Inc. 

23.2  -     Netherland, Sewell and Associates, Inc. 

37

Table of Contents   

Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

23.3  -     Consent of Ryder Scott Company, L.P. 

99. 

Additional Exhibits. 

99.1  -     Financial Statements of Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated. 

38

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

TORCH ENERGY ROYALTY TRUST 

By:   
     Wilmington Trust Company,

not in its individual capacity but  

solely as Trustee for the Trust  

By:   
                                                 /s/ Bruce L. Bisson

Bruce L. Bisson, Vice President  

Date: March 31, 2006

(The Trust has no employees, directors or executive officers.)

39

Table of Contents   

Index
to Exhibits 

Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures. 

4.1

- 
       
     Form of Torch Energy Royalty Trust Agreement.* 

4.2

- 
       
     Form of Louisiana Trust Agreement.* 

4.3

- 
       
     Specimen Trust Unit Certificate.* 

4.4

- 
       
     Designation of Ancillary Trustee.* 

Material Contracts. 

10.1

- 
       
     Purchase Agreement between TRC, Velasco and TEMI.* 

10.2

- 
       
     Gas Gathering Agreement between TEMI and Bahia Gas Gathering, Ltd.* 

10.3

- 
       
     Amendment to Gas Gathering Agreement.* 

10.4

- 
       
     Water Gathering and Disposal Agreement between Torch Energy Associates, Ltd. and Velasco.* 

10.5

- 
       
     Form of Texas Conveyance.* 

10.6

- 
       
     Form of Louisiana Conveyance.* 

10.7

- 
       
     Form of Alabama Conveyance.* 

10.8

- 
       
     Standby Performance Agreement between Torch and the Trust.* 

10.9

- 
       
     Amendment to Water Gathering Contract.* 

10.10

- 
       
     First Amendment to Oil and Gas Purchase Contract (previously filed on form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994). * 

Consents of Experts and Counsel. 

23.1

- 
       
     Consent of T.J. Smith   Company, Inc. 

23.2

- 
       
     Netherland, Sewell and Associates, Inc. 

23.3

- 
       
     Consent of Ryder Scott Company, L.P. 

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications. 

31.1

- 
       
     Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Section 1350 Certifications. 

32.1

- 
       
     Certification of Wilmington Trust Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Additional Exhibits. 

99.1

- 
       
     Financial Statements of Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated. 

<EX-23.1>
 2
 h34498exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF T.J. SMITH & COMPANY, INC.

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1

CONSENT OF T.J. SMITH   COMPANY, INC.

We hereby consent to the use of our report dated March 21, 2006 regarding Torch Energy Royalty
Trust and to the reference to our firm included in this Form 10-K.

T.J. SMITH   COMPANY, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ T. J. Smith

T.J. Smith  

Houston, Texas 
March 29, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 3
 h34498exv23w2.htm
 NETHERLAND, SEWELL AND ASSOCIATES, INC.

exv23w2 

Exhibit 23.2

CONSENT OF NETHERLAND, SEWELL   ASSOCIATES, INC.

We hereby consent to the use of our reports dated March 21 and 22, 2006 regarding Torch Energy
Royalty Trust interest for the year ended December 31, 2005 and to reference to our firm included
in this Form 10-K.

Netherland, Sewell and Associates, Inc. 

By:   
     /s/ Danny D. Simmons

Danny D. Simmons  

Executive Vice President  

Houston, Texas 
March 29, 2006

</EX-23.2>

<EX-23.3>
 4
 h34498exv23w3.htm
 CONSENT OF RYDER SCOTT COMPANY, L.P.

exv23w3 

Exhibit 23.3

CONSENT OF RYDER SCOTT COMPANY, L.P.

We hereby consent to the use of our report dated January 29, 2004 regarding Torch Energy
Royalty Trust interest for the year ended December 31, 2003 and to reference to our firm included
in this Form 10-K.

RYDER SCOTT COMPANY, L.P. 

By:   
     /s/ Ryder Scott Company, L.P.

Ryder Scott Company, L.P.  

Houston, Texas 
March, 29, 2006

</EX-23.3>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 h34498exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION  PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Bruce L. Bisson, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Torch Energy Royalty Trust,
for which Wilmington Trust Company acts as Trustee; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, distributable income and changes in trust corpus of the registrant
as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     I am responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 (e) and 15d-15(e)), or for causing
such procedures to be established or maintained, for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under my supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to me by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report my conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     I have disclosed, based on my most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors: 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves persons who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

In giving the certifications in paragraphs 4 and 5 above, I have relied to the extent I
consider reasonable on information provided to me by Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated.

Date:  March 31, 2006   
     By:   
     /s/ Bruce L. Bisson

Bruce L. Bisson  

Vice President 

Wilmington Trust Company  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 h34498exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

The following certification accompanies the issuer s Annual Report on Form 10-K and is not
filed, as provided in SEC Release  Nos. 33-8238,  34-47986 dated June 5, 2003.

In connection with the Annual Report of Torch Energy Royalty Trust (the  Trust ) on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2005, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ), I, Bruce L. Bisson, Vice President, of Wilmington Trust Company, the
trustee of the Trust, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:

1) 
       
     The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and 

2) 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Trust. 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the
Torch Energy Royalty Trust and will be retained by the Torch Energy Royalty Trust and furnished to
the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

Dated: March 31, 2006

\s\Bruce L. Bisson

Bruce L. Bisson, Vice President  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-99.1>
 7
 h34498exv99w1.htm
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED

exv99w1 

Exhibit 99.1 

In view of the possible materiality of the financial condition of Torch Energy Advisors
Incorporated ( Torch ) to the Minimum Price commitment, which relates to the Purchase Contract
between the Trust and Torch, Torch s financial statements are provided as an exhibit to the Trust s
annual report on Form 10-K. Upon the termination of the Minimum Price commitment, such financial
statements will not be included in this annual filing.

TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 
AND SUBSIDIARIES  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OF 
TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 

The following should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, and the related notes thereto, of Torch
Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries (the  Company ).

DISCUSSION OF YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003

Revenues

The Company s service activities, which include accounting and finance, oil and gas operations and
engineering, hydrocarbon marketing, acquisitions and divestitures, and various administrative
services, accounted for 42% of revenues in 2005. Revenues for such service activities are received
under various outsourcing and management contracts and are classified primarily as Service Fees or
Operating Fees. Service Fees include payments for management and administrative services, fees for
providing drilling rig crew services to third parties, certain hydrocarbon marketing activities,
and consulting services. The Company also receives fees related to oil and gas field operations,
which it classifies as Operating Fees. Operating Fees are a combination of fees paid by clients
and reimbursements received from working interest owners customarily paid to the operator of oil
and gas properties.

Service Fees were $8.8 million in 2005, up 38% from $6.4 million in 2004. Service Fees were $6.4
million in 2004, down 15% from $7.5 million in 2003.

Operating fees totaled $.4 million in both 2005 and 2004. Operating fees totaled $.4 million, down
20% from $.5 million in 2003.

Until December 2004, the Company s principal oil and gas properties related to the 2001 purchase of
oil and gas properties in Louisiana and Texas by Milam Energy L.P. ( Milam ), a wholly-owned
partnership. These properties were sold to third parties in October and December 2004. In July and
September 2005, all properties owned by Person Panna Maria LLC ( PPM ) and Big Energy, LLC ( Big
Energy ), respectively, were sold to third parties. The results of Milam, PPM and Big Energy are
classified as discontinued operations and the consolidated financial statements for all periods
presented have been adjusted to reflect this presentation. The Company maintains other interests in
oil and gas fields in Texas and Louisiana. Oil and gas revenues for 2005 were $5.5 million, up 72%
from $3.2 million in 2004. This increase is due to the purchase of a well in May 2004 from which a
second well began producing in August 2005. Oil and gas revenues for 2004 were $3.2 million, up
220% from $1.0 million in 2003 due to the purchase of the well in May 2004.

Hedging activities mainly consist of financial swap contracts entered into for the purpose of
hedging the impact of market fluctuations on production. There was no hedging activity for 2005 and
2004. Hedging activities resulted in a loss of $100,000 in 2003.

1

TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 
AND SUBSIDIARIES  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OF 
TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 

From time to time, the Company has sold interests in various oil and gas properties, securities,
and other assets. In September 2005, all properties owned by Big Energy were sold to a third party
for $4.0 million, resulting in a gain of approximately $1.0 million. In July 2005, all properties
owned by PPM were sold to third parties for $10.3 million, resulting in a gain of approximately
$9.5 million. Both the Big Energy and PPM gains are included in income from discontinued operations
for the year ended December 31, 2005. In February 2005, the Company sold its interest in a certain
gas field to a third party. The purchaser assumed the $1.1 million liability for plugging and
abandonment obligations included in other current liabilities at December 31, 2004. As a result of
this sale, the Company recognized a $1.1 million gain and retained a 3.33% overriding royalty
interest in the property. In October and December 2004, Milam entered into separate agreements to
sell its oil and gas properties. In October 2004, Milam sold its interest in a field for $3.6
million, resulting in a loss of approximately $3.1 million. In December 2004, Milam sold its
remaining fields for $11.8 million resulting in a gain of approximately $1.8 million. Both the gain
and loss are included in income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
In January 2003, the Company sold its assets in a coal bed methane field in Alabama for $43 million
in cash, resulting in a gain of approximately $41 million. During the year ended December 31, 2003,
the Company sold pieces of art to third parties for a total of $1,057,000, generating a gain of
$68,000. In December 2003, Torch Energy Finance Company ( TEFC ) and the Company sold Torch Energy
Finance Fund LPI ( TEFF ) to a third party for $325,000 plus the assumption of a credit facility,
resulting in a gain of $17,487,000. In December 2003, the Company sold 58,231 Resources Connection
Inc. shares for $1,609,000, resulting in a gain of $811,000.

Expenses

The Company includes in cost of services all of the personnel costs of providing services to its
clients pursuant to its outsourcing agreements. The level of expense recorded by the Company from
year to year is subject to variability related to client activity level. Cost of services totaled
$446,000, $467,000 and $2.1 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The decrease in 2004 is
due to the cancellation of several contracts in 2003.

General and administrative expenses totaled $6.7 million, $5.7 million and $11.8 million in 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively. The 18% increase in general and administrative costs in 2005 is
primarily due to performance incentives. The 52% reduction in general and administrative costs in
2004 is due to a reduction in workforce resulting in a reduction in salaries and benefits,
performance incentives and office rent.

2

TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 
AND SUBSIDIARIES  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OF 
TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 

Oil and gas operating expenses for 2005 totaled $838,000, up 23% from $683,000 in 2004 due to the
purchase of a well in May 2004 from which a second well began producing in August 2005. Oil and gas
operating expenses for 2004 totaled $683,000, up 128% from $300,000 in 2003 due to the purchase of
the well in May 2004. The Company s average oil and gas operating expenses per Mcfe was $.84, $1.16
and $1.95 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Interest expense for 2005 totaled $1.9 million, down 14% from $2.2 million in 2004 due to a
reduction in debt for principal payments in early 2005. Interest expense for 2004 totaled $2.2
million, down 27% from $3.0 million in 2003 due to the sale of TEFF and the assumption of a credit
facility by a third party in December 2003.

Equity in Earnings of Affiliates and Investees

The Company recorded equity earnings of $162,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 and an equity
loss of $2.7 million and $3.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The equity losses in 2004 and 2003 represent the Company s loss in P2 Energy Solutions ( P2ES ), a
company that provides software solutions and technology services for the energy industry. The
equity earnings in 2005 represents the Company s income in P2ES for January through March 2005. In
December 2004, P2ES was contributed to Tristone Energy Services, Inc. ( Tristone ) and as a
minority shareholder of P2ES, and on April 19, 2005 the Company exchanged its shares of stock in
P2ES for shares in Tristone. At December 31, 2005, the Company has a 4.86% interest on a
fully-diluted basis in Tristone, resulting in the Company changing the accounting method for its
investment to the cost method.

Net Income

The foregoing activities resulted in the following net income (amounts in thousands):

3

TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 
AND SUBSIDIARIES  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OF 
TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Net cash provided by operating activities was $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Net cash used in operating activities was $10.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The
Company spent $2.3 million, $6.3 million and $1.1 million on investments in property and equipment
in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. During 2005, the Company sold its oil and gas interests in
PPM and Big Energy generating $10.3 million and $4.0 million, respectively, in proceeds from the
sale of discontinued operations. During 2004, the Company sold its oil and gas interests in Milam
generating $15.4 million in proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations. During 2003, the
Company sold its interest in coal-seam gas production payment properties located in Alabama
generating $43 million in cash.

Financing Activities

On September 30, 1996, the Company recorded TAC s $25.5 million Senior Subordinated Note (the
 Note ) payable to Torchmark as part of the purchase price
for the Management Buyout. The principal of the Note was due and payable on September 30, 2004, and it accrued
interest at 9% per annum. During 2003 and 2002, the Note was reduced by $838,000, and $500,000,
respectively, in connection with the settlement of litigation involving the Predecessor, Torchmark,
and a third party. On January 1, 2005, the Note was renegotiated resulting in five $500,000
payments for principal and accrued interest due in 2005, $5.0 million due in 2006, $5.0 million due
in 2007 and the remaining unpaid balance of principal and interest due on May 1, 2008. As a result
of the renegotiation, the Company recognized an $86,000 gain on the forgiveness of debt and a gain
of approximately $1.4 million on the forgiveness of accrued interest expense. Interest accrues at
the prime rate plus 2% (9.25% at December 31, 2005). As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding
balance is $21.2 million, of which $17.9 million has been classified as long-term.

On May 17, 2001, Milam entered into an $18 million Promissory Note with a third party, which
increased to $22 million on November 18, 2003. Until the sale of the properties (see Note 10 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), interest accrued on the indebtedness at the sum of
seven percent (7.0%) plus the three month London Inter Bank Offer Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a three
percent (3.0%) default rate. Monthly principal and interest payments were due based on cash flows
from certain oil and gas properties. In December 2004, proceeds from the sale of the Milam
properties were used to pay down the note and the remaining principal balance was forgiven
resulting in a gain of $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This gain is included in
income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.

4

TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 
AND SUBSIDIARIES  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OF 
TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 

In connection with the purchase of certain assets including rigs and real property in January 2002
(see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), the Company entered into a note
for $3,175,000 payable to the seller ( Grayson Note ). Principal payments on the note plus interest
on the unpaid principal balance are due monthly, and the note matures in February 2007. Interest
accrues at the prime rate adjusted at the beginning of each quarter for increases or decreases
during the previous quarter (6.75% at December 31, 2005). At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the
outstanding principal balance on the Grayson Note is $0.6 million and $1.3 million, respectively,
which is included in liabilities of discontinued operations (see Note 3 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

In connection with the termination of certain former employees, the Company entered into notes for
options previously granted ( Option Notes ). The terms of the notes vary from between 5 and 10
years commencing on the date of termination and interest accrues at the prime rate (7.25% at
December 31, 2005). At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the outstanding principal balance on the Option
Notes is $1.3 million and $1.6 million, respectively.

On February 6, 2004, Big Energy entered into a $50 million credit facility (the  Big Energy
Facility ) with a bank. Interest accrues on indebtedness at the bank s prime rate plus .5%, but in
no event less than a per annum rate of 4.5%. The Big Energy oil and gas properties secured the Big
Energy Facility. In September 2005, proceeds from the sale of the Big Energy properties were used
to pay off the note. At December 31, 2004, the outstanding balance under the Big Energy Facility is
included in liabilities of discontinued operations (see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements).

The following table lists contractual obligations including obligations related to discontinued
operations of the Company by due date or expiration date:

There are no other commercial commitments at December 31, 2005.

5

TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 
AND SUBSIDIARIES  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OF 
TORCH ENERGY ADVISORS INCORPORATED 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market risk is the risk that the value of the contractual portfolio will change, either favorably
or unfavorably, in response to changes in prices. The Company s major market risk is commodity
price risk related to natural gas and crude oil price risk management services and its oil and gas
production. Historically, market prices for oil and gas production and related financial derivative
contracts have been volatile and unpredictable. Pricing volatility is expected to continue.

The Company did not have any open option contracts or other financial derivative contracts at
December 31, 2005.

Interest Rate Risk   The Company s exposure to changes in interest rates primarily results from
short-term changes in the prime and LIBOR rates. A 10% increase in the prime and floating LIBOR
rates would have the effect of increasing interest costs to the Company by $210,000 per year.

Outlook

The Company s primary business focus is directed toward making additional investments in proved oil
and gas properties and midstream assets. The Company believes that it has now structured its
operations to a size that the core business can now sustain and can be used as a platform to seek
out new investments.

6

Consolidated Financial Statements 

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries 
As of December 31, 2005 and 2004

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Financial Statements

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004

Contents 

Reports of Independent Auditors

1 

Audited Financial Statements

Consolidated Balance Sheets

4 

Consolidated Statements of Operations

6 

Consolidated Statements of Stockholder s Equity (Deficit)

7 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

8 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

10 

Report of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors 
Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated
and Subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholder s equity (deficit), and cash flows for the years then ended.
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audits. We did not audit the 2004 financial statements of P2 Energy Solutions, Inc., an investment
which as discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, was accounted for by the
equity method of accounting until April 1, 2005. The investment in P2 Energy Solutions, Inc. was
$9.4 million as of December 31, 2004, and the equity in its net loss was $2.7 million for the year
then ended. The financial statements of P2 Energy Solutions, Inc. for the year ended December 31,
2004 were audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar
as it relates to the 2004 amounts included for P2 Energy Solutions, Inc., is based solely on the
report of the other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits and the report of other auditors provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial
position of Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and
the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

As discussed in Note 3, effective January 1, 2003, the Company changed its method of accounting for
Asset Retirement Obligations.

\s\ UHY Mann Frankfort Stein   Lipp CPAs, LLP  
Houston, Texas 
March 30, 2006

1

Report of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors 
Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, stockholder s deficit, and
cash flows of Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries (the  Company ) for the year
ended December 31, 2003. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audit. The financial statements of P2 Energy Solutions, Inc. (a corporation in which the Company
has a 21.15% interest) have been audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished to us;
insofar as our opinion on the consolidated financial statements relates to the amounts included for
P2 Energy Solutions, Inc., it is based solely on their report.

We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit and the report of other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audit and the report of other auditors, the financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated results of Torch
Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries  operations and their cash flows for the year ended
December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.

As discussed in Note 2, effective January 1, 2003, the Company changed its method of accounting for
Asset Retirement Obligations.

\s\ Ernst   Young LLP  
Houston, Texas 
April 9, 2004

Except for discontinued operations as it relates to Milam Energy LP as discussed in Note 3 for the
year ended December 31, 2003, as to which the date is April 12, 2005, and except for discontinued
operations as it relates to Torch Rig Services, Inc. and PPM Live Oak Energy, LLC as discussed in
Note 3 for the year ended December 31, 2003, as to which the date is March 28, 2006

Report of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors 
P2 Energy Solutions, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of P2 Energy Solutions, Inc. (a
Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2004 and 2003, and the related
statements of operations, stockholders  equity and comprehensive loss, and cash flows for each for
the years then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of P2 Energy Solutions, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.

\s\ KPMG LLP  
Denver, Colorado 
April 8, 2005

3

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheets

4

See accompanying notes. 

5

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Operations

See accompanying notes. 

6

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Stockholder s Equity (Deficit)

For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003

(amounts in thousands) 

See accompanying notes. 

7

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

See accompanying notes. 

8

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (continued)

See accompanying notes. 

9

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

December 31, 2005

1. Organization 

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and its Subsidiaries (collectively,  TEAI  or the  Company ),
receives revenue from services provided to energy companies, principally drilling, and interests it
holds in oil and gas properties. Operations for the Company are headquartered in Houston, Texas,
with an operational district office in California.

Until September 1996, TEAI (the  Predecessor  when discussing periods prior to September 30, 1996)
operated as a single business segment and was a wholly owned subsidiary of Torchmark, an insurance
and financial services holding company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. On September 30, 1996,
certain members of the Predecessor s executive management, through the formation of Management
Holding Company ( MHC ) and Torch Acquisition Company ( TAC ), purchased TEAI from Torchmark (the
 Management Buyout ) (see Note 9). Torchmark retained a warrant for 10% of TAC s common stock on a
fully diluted basis. The Management Buyout was recorded using the purchase method of accounting as
TEAI s executive management had no ownership in the Predecessor. During 1997, MHC was merged into
TAC.

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Principles of Consolidation 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of TEAI, including all wholly-owned and
majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated.

Significant Subsidiaries 

Permian Basin Well Services, L.P. ( Permian Basin ), a wholly-owned subsidiary, was formed on April
4, 2005 for the purpose of providing drilling rig crew services and land based workover rigs to
third parties. Activities for Permian Basin are consolidated in the Company s financial statements.

In February 2004, the Company formed Big Energy, LLC ( Big Energy ), for the purpose of owning and
investing in oil and gas properties. Torch E P Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company,
owned 71.25% of Big Energy. In August 2005, an overriding

10

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements(continued)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

royalty interest was sold to Search Drilling Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary. In September 2005,
all remaining properties owned by Big Energy were sold to a third party. The results of Big Energy
are classified as discontinued operations and the consolidated financial statements for all periods
presented have been adjusted to reflect this presentation (see Note 3).

On December 2, 2003, the Company formed PPM Live Oak Energy, LLC ( PPM ), for the purpose of owning
and investing in oil and gas properties. PPM also owned a compression facility serving the
properties. Torch E P Company owned 75% of PPM in 2003 and 62.5% of PPM in 2004. In July 2005, all
properties owned by PPM were sold to third parties. The results of PPM are classified as
discontinued operations and the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented have
been adjusted to reflect this presentation (see Note 3).

Effective April 2001, the Company formed Milam Energy L.P. ( Milam ), for the purpose of acquiring
and developing oil and gas properties. Milam Energy GP, L.L.C., served as the sole general partner
(0.1%) and TEAI served as the sole limited partner (99.9%). By December 2004, all properties owned
by Milam were sold to third parties. The results of Milam are classified as discontinued operations
and the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect
this presentation (see Note 3).

Effective February 29, 2000, the Company formed Torch Energy TM, Inc. ( TETM ), to conduct energy
product marketing activities. Activities for TETM are consolidated in the Company s financial
statements.

Torch Rig Services, Inc. ( TRS ), a wholly-owned subsidiary, was formed on June 11, 1999 for the
purpose of providing drilling rig crew services and land based workover rigs to third parties. On
March 30, 2006, the Company closed on the sale of all remaining property to a third
party (see Note 10). As a result, the results of TRS are classified as discontinued operations and
the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect this
presentation (see Note 3).

Torch Energy Finance Fund LPI ( TEFF ), a Texas limited liability partnership, was formed on
September 6, 1995. The partnership agreement was amended on July 14, 1997 for the purpose of
allowing TEFF to provide growth capital through loans and equity investments to small and mid-size
oil and gas companies for use in acquisition and exploitation opportunities. Torch Energy Finance
Company ( TEFC ), a wholly-owned

11

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

subsidiary, served as the sole general partner (10%) and the Company served as the sole limited
partner (90%). Activities for TEFF are consolidated in the Company s financial statements.
Investments of TEFF were carried under the equity method. In December 2003, TEFC and the Company
sold TEFF to a third party.

Investees 

Novistar Inc. ( Novistar ) was formed on April 24, 1998 and commenced operations, effective January
1, 1999, upon the contribution by the Company of all assets and liabilities related to the
operations of Novistar, consisting primarily of software and computer equipment. Novistar provides
business process services including transaction processing, information management, and process
reengineering in three principal areas: oil and gas property administration, information
technology, and procurement and inventory management. On February 18, 2000, Novistar acquired from
Oracle Corporation ( Oracle ) the Oracle Energy Upstream business, which specializes in licensing,
support, and implementation of application software, including related consulting services. As part
of the purchase price, Oracle received a 21.12% interest in Novistar (see Note 10). In February
2001, Novistar purchased software from Accenture in exchange for a 1.7% interest in Novistar.

On December 31, 2002, TEAI formed a 100% owned subsidiary which purchased all of the outstanding
shares of Novistar. The subsidiary merged with Novistar ( New Novistar ) and eliminated all
historic shareholders of Novistar. On December 31, 2002, New Novistar merged with Paradigm
Technologies, a Petroleum Place company, that provides software solution and technology services
for the energy industry, to create P2 Energy Solutions ( P2ES ). As a result of the merger, the
Company received a 40% interest in P2ES, resulting in the Company changing the accounting method
for its investment to the equity method. On December 19, 2003, P2ES merged with a third party,
resulting in a decrease in the Company s interest in P2ES to 21.15%. The Company s Statement of
Operations for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 reflects the equity method for P2ES. In
December 2004, P2ES was contributed to Tristone Energy Services, Inc. ( Tristone ) and as a
minority shareholder of P2ES on April 19, 2005, the Company exchanged its shares of stock in P2ES
for shares in Tristone. In addition, Torch
exercised its option to purchase its pro rata share of common stock that Tristone acquired from
certain third parties. The Company received 9,196 shares of Tristone common stock for $445,000.
At December 31, 2005, the Company has 183,910 shares of Tristone common stock, a 4.86% interest on
a fully-diluted basis, resulting in the Company

12

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

changing the accounting method for its investment to the cost method. The Company s Statement of
Operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 reflects equity in earnings calculated under the
equity method for P2ES for January through March. The Company s Balance Sheet at December 31, 2005
reflects an investment at cost in Tristone of approximately $10.0 million.

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

Cash in excess of the Company s daily requirements is generally invested in short-term, highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Such investments are carried
at cost, which approximates fair value and, for purposes of reporting cash flows, are considered to
be cash equivalents.

The Company maintains its cash in bank deposits with various major financial institutions. These
accounts, at times, exceed federally insured limits. Deposits in the United States are guaranteed
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to $100,000. The Company monitors the financial
condition of the financial institutions and has not experienced any losses on such accounts.

Restricted Cash 

The Company had a restricted cash account, which was required by Milam s May 17, 2001 promissory
note with a third party (see Note 12). The balance in the restricted cash account at December 31,
2005 is $300,000. The balance in the restricted cash account which is classified as current assets
of discontinued operations (see Note 3) at December 31, 2004 is $690,000.

The Company has a restricted cash account, which is required by PPM s July 7, 2005 Escrow
Agreements which are required by PPM s July 7, 2005 Agreement of Sale and Purchase (see Note 10).
The balance in the restricted cash account for the Escrow Agreements at December 31, 2005 is
$1,250,000 of which $250,000 is classified as current assets of discontinued operations (see Note
3).

The Company collateralizes any open letters of credit with cash (see Note 13). As of December 31,
2005 and 2004, the Company has outstanding open letters of credit collateralized by cash for
$199,000 and $173,000, respectively.

13

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 

The Company routinely assesses the recoverability of all material trade and other receivables to
determine their collectibility. The Company accrues a reserve on a receivable when, based on the
judgement of management, it is probable that a receivable will not be collected and the amount of
any reserve may be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had an
allowance for doubtful accounts of $0.6 million and $3.0 million, respectively.

Prepaid Drilling Costs 

At December 31, 2005, prepaid drilling costs mainly consist of a cash call for the Company s
interest in an exploratory well. At December 31, 2004, prepaid drilling costs mainly consisted of
cash calls for the Company s interest in a different exploratory well. These costs were
re-classified to other long-term assets during 2005 as the well was shut-in pending a determination
as to whether to re-complete the well.

Marketable Securities 

Marketable securities are classified in three categories: trading, available-for-sale, or
held-to-maturity. Trading securities are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling
such securities in the near term. Held-to-maturity securities are those securities in which the
Company has the ability and intent to hold the security until maturity. All other securities not
included in trading or held-to-maturity are classified as available-for-sale.

The Company has no held-to-maturity or trading securities at December 31, 2005. The Company has
available-for-sale securities which are recorded at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses
excluded from earnings, and reported as accumulated comprehensive income, a separate component of
stockholder s equity.

Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned. Realized gains and losses for securities
classified as available-for-sale are included in earnings and are derived using the specific
identification method for determining the cost of securities sold.

14

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

Property and Equipment 

Oil and gas properties are accounted for on the successful efforts method whereby costs, including
lease acquisition and intangible drilling costs associated with exploration efforts which result in
the discovery of proved reserves and costs associated with development wells, whether or not
productive, are capitalized. Gain or loss is recognized when a property is sold or ceases to
produce and is abandoned. Capitalized costs of producing oil and gas properties are amortized using
the unit-of-production method based on units of proved reserves as estimated by independent
petroleum engineers.

The Company recognizes an impairment loss when the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds
the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of the asset. For each long-lived asset
determined to be impaired, an impairment loss equal to the difference between the carrying value
and the fair value of the depletable unit is recognized. The fair value of the oil and gas
properties, on a depletable unit basis, is estimated to be the present value of expected future
cash flows computed by applying estimated future oil and gas prices, as determined by management,
to estimated future production of oil and gas reserves over the economic lives of the reserves. No
impairment was recognized during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. An impairment of
approximately $45,000 was recognized for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Costs of acquiring undeveloped oil and gas leases are capitalized and assessed periodically to
determine whether an impairment has occurred; appropriate impairments are recorded when necessary.
No such allowance was required during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003.

Fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which
range from three to ten years. Leasehold improvements, which are recorded at cost, are amortized on
a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or the life of the lease, whichever is
shorter.

Revenue Recognition 

The Company recognizes revenues related to TRS as services are rendered. Revenues for TRS are
classified as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (see
Note 3).

The Company recognizes oil and gas revenues from its interests in oil and natural gas producing
activities as the hydrocarbons are produced and sold.

15

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

Marketing commissions are based on a fixed percentage of the negotiated sales price of crude oil
and natural gas and a fixed monthly fee. Marketing commissions are recognized in revenue during the
month of crude oil and natural gas production when the services are performed.

Gas Balancing 

The Company uses the entitlement method for recording sales of natural gas. Under the entitlement
method of accounting, revenue is recorded based on the Company s net revenue interest in
production. Deliveries of natural gas in excess of the Company s net revenue interest are recorded
as liabilities and under-deliveries are recorded as assets.

Production imbalances are recorded at the lower of the sales price in effect at the time of
production or the current market value, as allowed contractually. At December 31, 2005, the
Company s payable for gas sales over the Company s entitled share was approximately $197,000. At
December 31, 2004, the Company s receivable for gas sales under the Company s entitled share was
approximately $3,000.

Accounting for Price Risk Management Activities 

The Company periodically enters into certain financial derivative contracts utilized for
non-trading purposes to hedge the impact of market price fluctuations on contractual commitments
and forecasted transactions related to its oil and gas production. On January 1, 2001, the Company
adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial

Accounting Standards No. 133 ( SFAS 133 ),  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities , for the accounting of its hedge transactions. SFAS 133 establishes accounting and
reporting standards requiring that all derivative instruments be recorded in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet as either an asset or liability measured at fair value and requires that the changes
in the fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are
met.

During 2003, the Company entered into certain over-the-counter swap contracts to hedge the cash
flow of the forecasted sale of oil and gas production. The Company did not elect to document and
designate these as hedges. Thus, the changes in the fair value of these over-the-counter swap
contracts are reflected in earnings in the consolidated statements of operations in gain (loss)
from price risk management activities for the year ended December 31, 2003.

16

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

Concentrations of Credit Risk 

Credit risk is the risk of loss from nonperformance by suppliers, customers, or financial
counterparties to a contract. Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to credit
risk consist principally of trade receivables. Customers not meeting the Company s credit standards
are required to provide an acceptable form of payment security. At December 31, 2005 and 2004,
trade receivables were predominantly with energy related and energy trading companies in the United
States.

Income Taxes 

Effective in 1997, TEAI and its subsidiaries elected to be treated as qualified Subchapter S
corporations under Section 1361 (b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The effect of the
election is that TAC will file an S corporation tax return that includes TEAI and subsidiaries.
Each TAC stockholder is responsible for reporting their share of taxable income or loss and no
federal income taxes are recorded by the Company, except for a tax on excess net passive income and
certain built-in gains, if applicable.

Reclassifications 

Certain reclassifications of prior years amounts have been made to conform with current year
presentation.

Use of Estimates 

Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting
of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the
reporting date and the reporting of revenues and expenses during the reporting period to prepare
these consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

17

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

Asset Retirement Obligations 

The Company adopted SFAS No. 143   Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations   on January 1, 2003,
which resulted in an increase to net oil and gas properties of $254,000 and additional liabilities
related to asset retirement obligations ( ARO ) of $2 million. These amounts reflect the ARO of the
Company had the provisions of SFAS No. 143 been applied since inception and resulted in a non-cash
cumulative effect decrease to earnings of $152,000. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
143, the Company records an abandonment liability associated with its oil and gas wells and
platforms when those assets are placed in service. Under SFAS No. 143, depletion expense is reduced
since a discounted ARO is depleted in the property balance rather than the undiscounted value
previously depleted under the old rules. The lower depletion expense under SFAS No. 143 is offset,
however, by accretion expense, which is recognized over time as the discounted liability is
accreted to its expected settlement value.

Inherent in the fair value calculation of ARO are numerous assumptions and judgments, including the
ultimate settlement amounts, inflation factors, credit adjusted discount rates, timing of
settlement, and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental and political environments. To the
extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the fair value of the existing ARO liability, a
corresponding adjustment is made to the oil and gas property balance.

18

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

The following table is a reconciliation of the asset retirement obligation liability since adoption
(in thousands):

Liabilities incurred during 2003 relate to the acquisition of properties by PPM. Liabilities
incurred during 2004 relate to the acquisition of properties by Big Energy. Liabilities settled
during 2004 relate to the sale of the Milam properties. Liabilities incurred during 2005 relate to
the Company receiving a working interest in a gas field that reached payout. Liabilities settled
during 2005 relate to the sale of a gas field and the sale of properties by PPM and Big Energy.

19

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

3. Discontinued Operations 

In October and December 2004, Milam entered into separate agreements to sell all of its oil and gas
properties. In October 2004, Milam sold its interest in a field for $3.6 million, resulting in a
loss of approximately $3.1 million. In December 2004, Milam sold its remaining fields for $11.8
million resulting in a gain of approximately $1.8 million. The proceeds from the sale were used to
pay down the outstanding debt balance related to these properties and the remaining principal
balance was forgiven, resulting in a gain of $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 (see
Note 12). Milam was a component of the Company s oil and gas property segment, and accordingly its
results have been classified as discontinued operations and the consolidated financial statements
for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect this presentation.

In July 2005, all properties owned by PPM were sold to third parties for $10.3 million, resulting
in a gain of approximately $9.5 million. PPM was a component of the Company s oil and gas property
segment, and accordingly its results have been classified as discontinued operations and the
consolidated financial statements for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect this
presentation.

In August 2005, an overriding royalty interest was sold by Big Energy to Search Drilling Company, a
wholly-owned subsidiary, for $500,000 payable out of future production. In September 2005, all
remaining properties owned by Big Energy were sold to a third party for $4.0 million, resulting in
a gain of approximately $1.0 million. The proceeds from the sale were used to pay off the
outstanding debt balance related to these properties (see Note 12). Big Energy was a component of
the Company s oil and gas property segment, and accordingly its results have been classified as
discontinued operations and the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented have
been adjusted to reflect this presentation.

During 2005, TRS sold three rigs and insurance proceeds for damages were received on two rigs for
total proceeds of $630,000, resulting in a gain of $511,000. On
March 30, 2006, the Company
closed on the sale of all remaining property to a third party for $10.1 million. TRS is
a component of the Company s service activities segment, and accordingly its results have been
classified as discontinued operations and the consolidated
financial statements for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect this presentation.

20

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

3. Discontinued Operations (continued) 

Comparative balance sheets of the discontinued operations are as follows (in thousands):

21

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

3. Discontinued Operations (continued) 

Operating results of discontinued operations are as follows (in thousands):

4. Related Party Transactions 

Due From Stockholder 

The Company has advanced approximately $11.3 million to TAC ($1.4 million in 2005, $0.2 million in
2004 and $1.3 million in 2003), which was used to repurchase common stock awarded to former
shareholders and a director. The related amount due from stockholder is reflected as a
contra-equity account in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

22

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

4. Related Party Transactions (continued) 

Notes Receivable 

On January 1, 2000, the Company was issued a promissory note from one of the Company s officers for
$1.42 million. This note bears interest at 8% and has principal and interest payments due annually
through December 31, 2005. Since payment was not received at December 31, 2005, the note balance of
$794,000, and the related accrued interest, was reclassified from a long-term note receivable to a
contra-equity account.

Asset Management 

In the ordinary course of business, the Company incurs amounts resulting from the payment of costs
and expenses on behalf of related parties and from charging management fees under the terms of the
respective management and administrative agreements. Such amounts are settled on a regular basis,
generally monthly.

Due to affiliates, net 

In the ordinary course of business, the Company incurs expenses and receives revenues on behalf of
related parties. The majority of the payable at December 31,
2005 and 2004 relates to the Company s role as
sponsor and operator of certain properties in which the Torch Energy Royalty Trust (the  Trust )
owns a net profits interest (see Note 11). Such amounts are settled on a regular basis, generally
quarterly.

Well Operations 

The Company operates properties in which related parties have an ownership interest. These related
parties are charged for all customary expenses and cost reimbursements associated with such
activities on the same basis as third parties. Operators  fees charged to affiliates by the Company
for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 for these activities were approximately
$385,000, $378,000, and $380,000, respectively.

5. Investments 

In September 1999, the Company received 800,000 common shares of Carpatsky Petroleum, Inc.
( Carpatsky ), a Canadian publicly traded company, valued at $0.1 million, for operational
technical services provided by the Company. In October 1999, the Company received 6,597,720
Carpatsky shares valued at $0.9 million and a warrant to acquire an additional 6,207,808 shares in
full satisfaction of a $0.7 million note and

23

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

5. Investments (continued) 

related interest due from Carpatsky. During 2000, the Company recognized an impairment loss on its
entire investment in Carpatsky, as it was determined that the carrying value exceeded the fair
value of the investment. In April 2005, the Company sold its Carpatsky shares and immediately
purchased one share of Cardinal Resources PLC ( CDL ), an independent oil and gas exploration and
production company operating in the Ukraine and publicly traded on the Alternate Investment Market
of the London Stock Exchange, for every two Carpatsky shares previously owned. As a result, the
Company recognized a $2.4 million gain upon the sale of
Carpatsky shares. At December 31, 2005,
the Company recorded a $.9 million unrealized loss based on the difference between cost and market
value in its investment in CDL, resulting in a carrying value of approximately $1.6 million.

In October 2002, the Company received 58,231 shares of Resources Connection, Inc. ( RCI  a
Delaware incorporated publicly traded company, valued at $798,000, as proceeds for the sale of TPC.
In December 2003, the Company sold the 58,231 RCI shares for $1,609,000, resulting in a gain of
$811,000.

6. Fixed Assets 

Fixed assets consist of the following as of December 31 (in thousands):

Depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 amounted to $109,000,
$74,000, and $101,000, respectively.

24

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

7. Other Assets 

The components of other assets are as follows (in thousands) as of December 31:

8. Benefit Plans 

Effective January 1, 1996, the Company established a 401(k) retirement plan. The 401(k) retirement
plan is funded by employee and Company contributions. Employees may contribute up to 15% of their
salaries and the Company matches 50% of employee contributions up to 6%. The Company s
contributions to this plan totaled approximately $7,000, $25,000, and $47,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. In addition, the Company established a
discretionary 401(k) retirement plan. During the first quarter of the year, the Company has the
option of contributing up to an additional 3% of each employee s salary for the previous year to the plan. The Company made no
contributions to the discretionary plan in 2005, 2004 and 2003.

9. Management Buyout 

On September 30, 1996, the Management Buyout occurred whereby certain members of the Company s
executive management purchased the Company from Torchmark for $41 million; $25.5 million in the
form of a senior subordinated note payable (see Note 12) and $15.5 million in cash. As a result of
this transaction, the Company received working and other interests in oil and gas properties. In
addition, the Company received interests in certain oil and gas properties in exchange for
consideration of up to $7 million, which is payable solely out of production and is contingent upon
the properties achieving pricing and profitability thresholds. Based upon the performance of the
properties, none of these thresholds were achieved, and no such liability was recorded at December
31, 2005 and 2004.

25

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

10. Acquisitions and Dispositions of Assets 

Milam 

In October and December 2004, Milam entered into separate agreements to sell all of its oil and gas
properties. In October 2004, Milam sold its interest in a field for $3.6 million, resulting in a
loss of approximately $3.1 million. In December 2004, Milam sold its remaining fields for $11.8
million resulting in a gain of approximately $1.8 million. The proceeds from the sale were used to
pay down the outstanding debt balance related to these properties and the remaining principal
balance was forgiven resulting in a gain of $5.6 million (see Note 12). The results of Milam are
classified as discontinued operations and the consolidated financial statements for all periods
presented have been adjusted to reflect this presentation (see Note 3).

Big Energy, LLC 

In February 2004, Big Energy purchased an interest in certain oil and gas properties located in
Louisiana from a third party for $2.1 million. In August 2005, an overriding royalty interest was
sold to Search Drilling Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary, for $500,000 payable out of future
production. In September 2005, all remaining properties owned by Big Energy were sold to a third
party for $4.0 million, resulting in a gain of approximately $1.0 million. The proceeds from the
sale were used to pay off the outstanding debt balance related to these properties (see Note 12).
The results of Big Energy are classified as discontinued operations and the consolidated financial
statements for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect this presentation (see Note 3).

Person Panna Maria, LLC 

In June 2003, the Company purchased a 4% interest in the oil and gas interests in PPM for $80,000
which currently owns a compression facility serving the properties. In December 2003, the Company
purchased an additional 80% interest in PPM for $270,000. In January 2004, the Company purchased an
additional 4.5% interest in PPM for $15,000. In July 2005, all properties owned by PPM were sold to
third parties for $10.3 million, resulting in a gain of approximately $9.5 million. The results of
PPM are classified as discontinued operations and the consolidated financial statements for all
periods presented have been adjusted to reflect this presentation (see Note 3).

26

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

10. Acquisitions and Dispositions of Assets (continued) 

Coal Bed Methane Field 

In January 2003, the Company sold its oil and gas interest in a coal bed methane field in Alabama
for $43 million in cash, resulting in a gain of approximately $41 million. Proceeds of $18.7
million were used to payoff the outstanding balance on the Credit Facility (see Note 12). In
addition, due to the sale of this field, the Senior Subordinated Note was reduced by $500,000.

Gas Field 

In February 2005, the Company sold its interest in a gas field located in the Gulf of Mexico to a
third party. The purchaser assumed a $1.1 million plugging and abandonment liability that was
included in current liabilities at December 31, 2004. As a result of this sale, the Company
recognized a gain of $1.1 million and retained a 3.33% overriding royalty interest in the property.

Art 

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company purchased one piece of art for $100,000.
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company purchased two pieces of art for approximately
$238,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company sold pieces of art to third parties
for a total of $1,057,000, generating a gain of $68,000.

RCI Shares 

In December 2003, the Company sold 58,231 shares of RCI for $1,609,000, resulting in a gain of
$811,000.

TEFF 

In
December 2003, TEFC and the Company sold TEFF to a third party for
$325,000, plus the assumption of a credit facility with a bank,
resulting in a gain of $17,487,000.

27

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

10. Acquisitions and Dispositions of Assets (continued) 

Torch Rig Services 

During 2005, TRS sold three rigs and insurance proceeds for damages were received on two rigs for
total proceeds of $630,000, resulting in a gain of $511,000. In
addition, two rigs were sold to
Permian Basin. Since both TRS and Permian Basin are wholly-owned subsidiaries, no gain or loss was
recognized on the sale. On March 30, 2006, the Company closed on
the sale of all
remaining property to a third party for $10.1 million. As a result, the results of TRS are
classified as discontinued operations and the consolidated financial statements for all periods
presented have been adjusted to reflect this presentation (see Note 3).

Novistar and P2ES 

On December 31, 2002, TEAI formed a 100% owned subsidiary which purchased all of the outstanding
Novistar stock for $.01 per share. The subsidiary merged with Novistar
( New Novistar ) resulting in the acquisition of the interests of all historic shareholders of
Novistar. Petroleum Place, Inc. loaned $3.2 million to New Novistar. New Novistar used the $3.2
million loan proceeds to buy-out Oracle s debt of $10 million and interest payable of $1.1 million,
resulting in an extraordinary gain of $7.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The
Company then forgave $23.5 million of debt with New Novistar as uncollectible and contributed the
remaining $17 million of debt into New Novistar s capital as equity. New Novistar then merged with Paradigm Technologies to create P2ES.
As a result of the merger, the Company received a 40% interest in P2ES. On December 20, 2003, P2ES
merged with a third party, resulting in a decrease in the Company s interest in P2ES to 21.15%. In
December 2004, P2ES was contributed to Tristone. On April 19, 2005 the Company exchanged its share
of stock in P2ES for shares in Tristone. In addition, Torch exercised its option to purchase its
pro rata share of common stock that Tristone acquired from certain third parties. At December 31,
2005, the Company s fully diluted interest in Tristone is 4.86%.

28

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

11. Torch Energy Royalty Trust 

The Company serves as sponsor and operator of certain properties in which the Trust owns a net
profits interest. In connection with the formation of the Trust, the Company entered into an oil
and gas purchase contract ( Purchase Contract ) which expires on the termination date of the Trust,
the earliest of which is March 1, 2007. The Trust will terminate upon the first to occur of: (a) an
affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 66-2/3% of the outstanding units to liquidate the
Trust; (b) such time as the ratio of the cash amounts received by the Trust from the net profits
interests to administrative costs of the Trust is less than 1.2 to 1.0 for three consecutive
quarters; (c) March 1 of any year if it is determined based on a reserve report as of December 31
of the prior year that the present value of the estimated pre-tax future net cash flows, discounted
at 10%, of proved reserves attributable to the net profits interest is equal to or less than $25.0
million; or (d) December 31, 2012. Under the Purchase Contract, the Company is obligated to
purchase all net production attributable to the Trust properties for indexed prices for oil and
gas. Such prices are calculated monthly and are generally based on the average spot market prices
of oil and gas. The Purchase Contract also provides that the minimum price paid by the Company for
gas production is $1.70 per MMBtu, adjusted annually for inflation ( Minimum Price ). When the
Company pays a purchase price based on the Minimum Price, it receives price credits ( Price
Credits ), equal to the difference between the Index Price and the Minimum Price, that it is
entitled to deduct in determining the purchase price when the Index Price for gas exceeds the
Minimum Price. In addition, if the Index Price for gas exceeds $2.10 per MMBtu, adjusted annually
for inflation, the Company is entitled to deduct 50% of such excess ( Price Differential ) in
determining the purchase price. The Company has an annual option to discontinue the Minimum Price
commitment. However, if the Company discontinues the Minimum Price commitment, it will no longer be
entitled to deduct the Price Differential in calculating the purchase price and will forfeit all
accrued Price Credits. The Company has not exercised its option to discontinue the Minimum Price
commitment. The Minimum Price and sharing price in 2005, adjusted for inflation, was $1.77 and
$2.18, respectively. Total revenue recognized by the Company for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 was $7.4 million, $5.6 million, and $4.4 million, respectively.

29

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

11. Torch Energy Royalty Trust (continued) 

Under the terms of the purchase contract defined above during the year ended December 31, 2005, the
Company purchased 4,149 MMCF of gas and 22 Mbbls of oil at an average price of $5.26 per MCF and
$48.97 per Bbl. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the
Company purchased 4,542 MMCF of gas
and 26 Mbbls of oil at an average price of $4.13 per MCF and $34.38 per Bbl. During the year ended
December 31, 2003, the Company purchased 4,698 MMCF of gas and 24 Mbbls of oil at an average price
of $3.78 per MCF and $24.94 per Bbl.

In December 2003, the Company purchased a contract which expired in December 2004 to limit its
exposure in 2004 to losses under the Minimum Price obligation of the Purchase Contract. A loss of
approximately $409,000 is included in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004.

12. Debt 

Total debt, including debt related to discontinued operations, at December 31, 2005 and 2004
consists of the following (amounts in thousands):

Senior Subordinated Note Payable   Affiliate 

On September 30, 1996, the Company recorded TAC s $25.5 million Senior Subordinated Note (the
 Note ) payable to Torchmark as part of the purchase price for the Management
Buyout. The principal of the Note was due and payable on September 30, 2004, and it accrued
interest at 9% per annum. During 2003 and 2002, the Note was reduced by $838,000, and $500,000,
respectively, in connection with the settlement of litigation involving the Predecessor, Torchmark,
and a third party.

30

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

12. Debt (continued) 

On January 1, 2005, the Note was renegotiated resulting in five $500,000 payments for principal and
accrued interest being made in 2005, $5.0 million due in 2006, and $5.0 million due in 2007 and the
remaining unpaid balance of principal and interest due on May 1, 2008. As a result of the
renegotiation, the Company recognized an $86,000 gain on the forgiveness of debt and a gain of
approximately $1.4 million on the forgiveness of accrued interest expense. Interest accrues at the
prime rate plus 2% (9.25% at December 31, 2005). As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance
is $21.2 million, of which $17.9 million has been classified as long-term.

Promissory Note   Third Party 

On May 17, 2001, Milam entered into an $18 million Promissory Note with a third party, which
increased to $22 million on November 18, 2003. Until the sale of the properties (see Note 10),
interest accrued on the indebtedness at the sum of seven percent (7.0%) plus the three month London
Inter Bank Offer Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a three percent (3.0%) default rate. Monthly principal and
interest payments were due based on cash flows from certain oil and gas properties. In December
2004, proceeds from the sale of the Milam properties were used to pay down the note and the
remaining principal balance was forgiven resulting in a gain of $5.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. This gain is included in income from discontinued operations for the year ended
December 31, 2004 (see Note 3).

Note Payable   Grayson 

In connection with the purchase of certain assets including rigs and real property in January 2002
(see Note 10), the Company entered into a note for $3,175,000 payable to the seller ( Grayson
Note ). Principal payments on the note plus interest on the unpaid principal balance are due
monthly and the note matures in February 2007. Interest accrues at the prime rate adjusted at the
beginning of each quarter for increases or decreases
during the previous quarter (6.75% at December 31, 2005). At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the
outstanding principal balance on the Grayson Note is $0.6 million and $1.3 million, respectively,
which is included in liabilities of discontinued operations (see Note 3).

31

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

12. Debt (continued) 

Notes Payable   Options 

In connection with the termination of certain former employees, the Company entered into notes for
options previously granted ( Option Notes ). The terms of the notes vary from between 5 and 10
years commencing on the date of termination and interest accrues at the prime rate (7.25% at
December 31, 2005). At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the outstanding principal balance on the Option
Notes is $1.3 million and $1.6 million, respectively.

Line of Credit 

On February 6, 2004, Big Energy entered into a $50 million credit facility (the  Big Energy
Facility ) with a bank. Interest accrued on indebtedness at the bank s prime rate plus .5%, but in
no event less than a per annum rate of 4.5%. The Big Energy Facility had a February 26, 2007
maturity date and contained, among other terms, provisions for the maintenance of certain financial
ratios and restrictions on additional debt. The Big Energy oil and gas properties secured the Big
Energy Facility. In September 2005, proceeds from the sale of the Big Energy properties were used
to pay off the Big Energy Facility. At December 31, 2004, the outstanding principal balance on the
Big Energy Facility is included in liabilities of discontinued operations (see Note 3).

Scheduled maturities of total debt for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2005
are as follows (in thousands):

13. Commitments and Contingencies 

Litigation 

The Company is involved in certain litigation arising out of the normal course of business, none of
which, in the opinion of management, will have any material adverse effect on the financial
position or results of operations of the Company as a whole.

32

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

13. Commitments and Contingencies (continued) 

Lease Obligations 

Rental expense for operating leases was approximately $0.5 million, $0.9 million, and $1.5 million
for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Future minimum payments under
all noncancelable leases, including amounts allocable to
affiliates, having initial terms of one year or more consisted of the following as of December 31,
2005 (amounts in thousands):

Letters of Credit 

The Company has open letters of credit of approximately $199,000 at December 31, 2005, which are
fully collateralized by restricted cash balances.

14. Price Risk Management and Financial Instruments 

Non-Trading Activities 

The Company enters into financial swap contracts for the purpose of hedging the impact of market
fluctuations on production. At December 31, 2003, the Company was party to energy commodity swaps
covering 60,000 MMbtus of natural gas and 13,000 barrels of crude oil that extended to May of 2004
on the Milam properties.

While notional amounts are used to express the volume of swaps and over-the-counter options, the
amounts potentially subject to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by the third parties are
substantially smaller. The Company does not anticipate any material impact to its financial
position or results of operations as a result of nonperformance by third parties on financial
instruments related to non-trading activities.

33

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

14. Price Risk Management and Financial Instruments (continued) 

The carrying amounts of the Company s cash and cash equivalents, receivables, other current assets,
and payables approximate the fair value at December 31, 2005 because of their short-term
maturities.

The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company s other financial instruments,
excluding trading activities, at December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

The carrying amount of the debt approximates fair value as the interest rates approximate current
market rates.

15. Subsequent Events 

In January 2006, the Company entered into an agreement that provides royalty relief funds due to
the drainage of certain blocks in the State of Louisiana. A third party will collect the funds on
behalf of the Company by withholding the specified percentage of royalties due to the United States
from payment under all leases in which it is a lessee. The funds will be distributed to the Company
within five days of being withheld by the third party. The Company will set-up a long-term asset
and recognize other income of approximately $4.3 million for its share of the royalty relief
settlement and interest.

On
March 30, 2006, the Company closed on the sale of all remaining TRS property to a
third party for $10.1 million. As a result, the results of TRS are classified as discontinued
operations and the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented have been adjusted
to reflect this presentation (see Note 3).

34

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

16. SFAS 131: Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information 

Prior to January 1, 2004, the Company had three reportable segments: service activities, the
capital group and oil and gas properties. The service activities segment provided technical and
administrative services to energy companies, primarily through outsourcing arrangements. The
capital group segment provided growth capital to independent oil and gas companies through TEFF, a
fund formed to provide small to mid-size companies with capital for acquisition and exploitation
opportunities. The oil and gas properties segment consisted of revenue from interests the Company
held in certain oil and gas properties. Due to the sale of TEFF in December 2003 (see Note 2), the
Company has two reportable segments in 2004 and 2005: service activities and oil and gas
properties.

The Company s reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different services. Each
business segment is managed separately based on the nature of the services provided to clients and
based on the different technology and marketing strategies required by each of the segments. The
accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies  
(see Note 2).

The Company evaluates performance based on profit or loss from operations. Intersegment fees are
accounted for as if the fees were to third parties.

35

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

16. SFAS 131: Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information (continued) 

The following tables represent reported segment profit or loss and segment assets for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 (amounts in thousands).

36

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

16. SFAS 131: Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information (continued) 

37

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

16. SFAS 131: Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information (continued) 

The following is a reconciliation of reportable segment revenues, expenditures, profit or loss,
assets, and equity in investees to the Company s consolidated totals for the years ended December
31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 (amounts in thousands):

38

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

17. Supplementary Oil and Gas Data (Unaudited) 

Oil and Gas Producing Activities 

Included herein is information with respect to oil and gas acquisition, exploration, development,
and production activities, which is based on estimates of year-end oil and gas reserve quantities
and estimates of future development costs and production schedules. These reserve quantities
represent interests owned by the Company located solely within the United States. At December 31,
2005, reserve quantities and future
production are primarily based upon reserve reports prepared by the independent petroleum
engineering firm of T.J. Smith   Company, Inc. and by in-house reserve engineers. These estimates
are inherently imprecise and subject to revisions from time to time.

Estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves of gas, oil, condensate, and natural gas
liquids ( NGLs ) were made in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No.
69,  Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities . The estimates are based on prices in effect
at year-end. Estimated future cash inflows are reduced by estimated future development and
production costs based on year-end cost levels, assuming continuation of existing economic
conditions. Effective in 1997, the oil and gas activities of the Company fall under its S
corporation status for income tax purposes and have a zero effective income tax rate (see Note 2).
The results of these disclosures should not be construed to represent the fair market value of the
Company s oil and gas properties. A market value determination would include many additional
factors including: (a) anticipated future increases or decreases in oil and gas prices and
production and development costs; (b) an allowance for return on investment; (c) the value of
additional reserves, not considered proved at the present, which may be recovered as a result of
further exploration and development activities; and (d) other business risks.

39

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

17. Supplementary Oil and Gas Data (Unaudited) (continued) 

Costs Incurred 

The following table sets forth the capitalized costs incurred in oil and gas activities for the
years ended December 31 (amounts in thousands):

(1) 
       
     Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 143  Asset Retirement Obligations. 
The asset retirement obligation costs reflect abandonment obligations assumed during the year and
related revisions. 

Capitalized Costs Relating to Oil and Gas Activities 

The following table sets forth the capitalized costs relating to oil and gas activities and the
associated accumulated depreciation, depletion, and amortization (amounts in thousands):

40

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

17. Supplementary Oil and Gas Data (Unaudited) (continued) 

Results of Operations for Producing Activities 

No income tax provision is recorded for 2005, 2004 or 2003 as the Company has elected subchapter S
corporation status.

41

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

17. Supplementary Oil and Gas Data (Unaudited) (continued) 

Reserves 

The Company s estimated total proved and proved developed oil and gas reserves for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 are as follows:

42

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

17. Supplementary Oil and Gas Data (Unaudited) (continued) 

Discounted Future Net Cash Flows 

The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows and changes therein related to proved
oil and gas reserves are shown below (amounts in thousands):

No income tax provision is recorded for 2005, 2004, or 2003 as the Company has elected subchapter S
corporation status.

43

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

17. Supplementary Oil and Gas Data (Unaudited) (continued) 

The following are the principal sources of change in the standardized measure of discounted future
net cash flows (amounts in thousands):

44

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

18. Investment 

In 2004 and 2003, the Company s 21.15% owned joint venture, P2ES, was accounted for under the
equity method of accounting. The investment in P2ES was $9.4 million and $11.8 million at December
31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Summarized financial information for P2ES, which was audited by
other auditors and furnished to the Company, for the years ended September 30, 2004 and 2003 is as
follows (in thousands):

At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company s investment in P2ES exceeded its equity in its net
assets of P2ES at September 30, 2004 and 2003 by approximately $2.7 million and $6.0 million,
respectively, due to goodwill and timing differences.

45

Torch Energy Advisors Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)

18. Investment (continued) 

In December 2004, P2ES was contributed to Tristone, and as a minority shareholder of P2ES on April
19, 2005 the Company exchanged its shares of stock in P2ES for shares in Tristone. In addition,
Torch exercised its option to purchase its pro rata share of common stock that Tristone acquired
from certain third parties. At December 31, 2005, the Company s fully diluted interest in Tristone
is 4.86%, resulting in the Company changing the accounting method for its investment to the cost
method. The Company s Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 reflects the
equity method for P2ES for January through March. The Company recorded equity in earnings of
$162,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2005. The Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet at
December 31, 2005 reflects an investment at cost in Tristone of approximately $10.0 million.

46

</EX-99.1>

