<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_946815_0001104659-06-021329_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2136293</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>258946</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>113146</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1309808</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>52</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021329.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331164008
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021329
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LOUD TECHNOLOGIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000946815
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RADIO & TV BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT [3663]
		IRS NUMBER:				911432133
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-26524
		FILM NUMBER:		06729452

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		16220 WOOD RED RD NE
		CITY:			WOODINVILLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98072
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4254874333

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		16220 WOOD RED ROAD NE
		CITY:			WOODINVILLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98072

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MACKIE DESIGNS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950619

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 SbNZBdpCylA2ojxjyvgMgEPuYZJYLrjJJ9xnWku82qHkRWATqP4JH6y/wt+qwgJM
 T6flSVhAug2Wb+blGbn82A==

 0001104659-06-021329.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-2390_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   WASHINGTON, DC 20549   

FORM
10-K   

(Mark One)   

For the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2005   

OR   

For the
transition period
from       to          

Commission
File Number 0-26524   

LOUD TECHNOLOGIES INC.   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Washington   

91-1432133   

(State or other jurisdiction of
  incorporation or 
  organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

16220 Wood-Red Road, N.E., Woodinville, Washington 98072    

  (Address of Principal Executive Offices)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:   (425) 487-4333    

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each Class   

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered   

None  

None  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common
Stock, no par value   

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act.   Yes        o     No       

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.   Yes        o     No       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.   Yes          No    o  

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.     o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See
definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act (Check one):   

Large accelerated filer   o  

Accelerated filer   o  

Non-accelerated filer      

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.):   Yes        o     No       

The aggregate market value
of common stock held by non-affiliates of registrant at June 30, 2005 was
approximately $16,389,607 based upon the closing price of the registrant s
common stock as quoted on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board System on June 30, 2005
of $15.55. Per-share data contained in this report reflect the 1-for-5 reverse
split effected on November 17, 2005.  

On March 31, 2006, 4,566,202 shares of common
stock were outstanding.   

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

Portions of the definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders (including amendments
thereto) are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K   

LOUD TECHNOLOGIES INC.   

   FORM 10-K   

  For the Year Ended
December 31, 2005  

INDEX   

Part I   

Item 1.   

Business   

Item 1A.   

Risk Factors   

Item 2.   

Properties   

Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings   

Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a
  Vote of Securities Holders   

Part
  II   

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common
  Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data   

Item 7.   

Management's Discussion and
  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation   

Item 7A.   

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Item 8.   

Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data   

Item 9.   

Changes in
  and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

Item 9A.   

Controls and
  Procedures   

Item 9B.   

Other Information   

Part III   

Item 10.  

Directors and Executive
  Officers of the Registrant  

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation  

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of
  Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships
  and Related Transactions  

Item 14.  

Principal Accountant
  Fees and Services  

Part IV   

Item 15.   

Exhibits,
  Financial Statement Schedules   

Signatures   

1  

PART
I   

Certain
statements set forth in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, particularly including but not
limited to the section entitled Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contain  forward-looking
statements  within the meaning of Section 21D of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended. Such statements are based on currently available operating,
financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and
uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements include among others, those
statements including the words  expect,   anticipate,   intend,   believe  and
similar expressions. Actual results could differ materially and adversely from
those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to such
differences include but are not limited to the risks discussed in the  Risk
Factors  section in Item 1A. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance
on these forward-looking statements, and should recognize that these statements
are accurate only as of the date of this report and will not be updated to
reflect future developments.    

Item 1. Business   

Overview   

LOUD Technologies Inc. was founded in 1988 and
incorporated in Washington under the name Mackie Designs Inc., and changed its
name to Loud Technologies Inc. September 13, 2003. LOUD is one of the world s
largest dedicated professional audio and music products companies. As the
corporate parent for world-recognized brands Alvarez , Ampeg , Crate , EAW ,
Knilling , Mackie , SIA  and TAPCO , LOUD engineers, manufactures, markets and
distributes a wide range of professional audio and musical instrument products
worldwide. Additionally, LOUD is one of the largest distributors of branded
professional audio and music accessories through its SLM Marketplace catalog.   

Our product lines include sound reinforcement
speakers, analog mixers, guitar and bass amplifiers, professional loudspeaker
systems, violins and other stringed instruments, and digital mixers. These
products can be found in professional and project recording studios, video and
broadcast suites, post-production facilities, sound reinforcement applications
including churches and nightclubs, retail locations, and on major musical
tours.  

On March 4, 2005, we
acquired all of the shares of St. Louis Music, Inc., a Missouri-based
manufacturer, distributor and importer of branded musical instruments and
professional audio products. This transaction is explained in more detail in
Note 18 of the accompanying financial statements.  

On August 29, 2005 we
completed a refinancing of our credit facilities with our U.S. lenders that
were to mature in the first half of 2006. This transaction is explained in more
detail in Note 10 of the accompanying financial statements.  

On November 3, 2005 we
announced a 1-for-5 reverse split of the Company s outstanding common stock.
The 1-for-5 reverse stock split was effective after the close of business on
November 17, 2005. In lieu of fractional shares, shareholders received cash at
a rate of $2.95 per whole post-split share. Mellon Investor Services LLC, the
Company s transfer agent, acted as the exchange agent.  

At December 31, 2005,
3,370,127 shares, representing 73.8% of our outstanding common stock, were
owned by affiliates of Sun Capital Partners, Inc., a private investment firm.
Accordingly, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the NASD rules
governing companies listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and, as discussed in
greater detail below and in our proxy statement for our 2006 annual shareholder
meeting, we are therefore exempt from application of certain of the corporate
governance  

2  

rules, particularly including those relating to independent board
composition and compensation and nominating committee requirements.  

The Company voluntarily
delisted from the Nasdaq Small Cap Market  on February 7, 2003 because of
ongoing difficulties in satisfying certain of the Nasdaq continuing listing
requirements. The Company s stock began trading on the OTC Bulletin Board on
February 11, 2003. We applied for reinstatement to the Nasdaq Capital Market 
on November 23, 2005. Our stock began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market 
under the symbol  LTEC  on March 1, 2006.  

MACKIE,  the running man
figure,  TAPCO,   EAW,  and  SIA  are registered trademarks or  common law 
trademarks of LOUD Technologies Inc.  Alvarez ,  Ampeg ,  Crate , and
 Knilling  are registered trademarks of our wholly owned subsidiary, St. Louis
Music, Inc. To the extent our trademarks are unregistered, we are unaware of
any conflicts with trademarks owned by third parties. This document also
contains names and marks of other companies, and we claim no rights in the
trademarks, service marks and trade names of entities other than those in which
we have a financial interest or licensing right.  

Marketing    

Innovative marketing is the hallmark of each LOUD
brand. As a result, each brand holds an enviable, unique position in its
respective marketplace. Each brand is supported by a dedicated team of
brand-specific product, business and communication resources backed by an
in-house marketing and design team that handles all media planning, buying,
print literature and advertising design, web design, public relations, product
documentation, product training, as well as end-user and dealer trade shows and
special events.  

Our
Major Brands   

Alvarez
is an acoustic guitar line geared to players of all types   from entry-level to
professional.   

Ampeg is
the industry standard in bass amplification for more than 50 years.   

Crate is
an entry-level brand of musical instrument amplification products.   

EAW is precision
engineered, technologically superior loudspeakers and digital mixers. EAW
systems are found in public spaces including sporting arenas, churches,
nightclubs, and on major musical tours.  

Mackie is innovative
professional audio systems for both recording and sound reinforcement
applications.  

Distribution
and Sales    

Sales to customers in the
United States represent 63%, 58% and 63% of total net sales in 2005, 2004 and
2003 respectively. In the United States, for Mackie, EAW, SIA and TAPCO
products, we use a network of independent representatives to sell to over 2,500
retail dealers. These products are sold in musical instrument stores,
professional audio outlets and several mail order outlets. For the acquired
brands of St. Louis Music (Alvarez, Ampeg, Crate, SLM Marketplace, and
Knilling), we use a dedicated, domestic employee sales force (there were
approximately 25 as of December 31, 2005) who sell to musical instrument stores
and retail locations. Beginning in 2006, this employee sales force will begin
selling Mackie and TAPCO products as well, while our existing base of
independent representatives will continue to sell EAW and SIA products. Sales
to our top 10 U.S. dealers represented approximately 27%,  

3  

22% and 27% of net sales made in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. One
dealer, Guitar Center Inc., accounted for approximately 16%, 12% and 12% of net
sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. No other dealer accounted for more
than 10% of net sales in this period.  

Internationally, our products
are offered direct to dealers in the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Germany,
Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg primarily through our subsidiaries in the
United Kingdom and Canada. We also sell direct to dealers in Japan. Our
products are also distributed through local distributors in countries where we
do not have direct operations. No single international distributor accounted
for more than 10% of international net sales in this period.  

Sales to customers in the
United States were $128.7 million, $71.6 million, and $82.0 million for 2005,
2004 and 2003 respectively, while international sales were $75.7 million, $51.7
million and $48.7 million, for the comparable periods.  

Customer
Support    

Customer support programs
are designed to enhance brand loyalty by building customer understanding of
product use and capabilities. The customer service and support operation also
provides us with a means of understanding customer requirements for future
product enhancements. This understanding comes through direct customer contact,
as well as through close analysis of responses to various product registration
surveys.  

Product support
specialists are located in Woodinville, Washington, Whitinsville,
Massachusetts, and St. Louis, Missouri to provide direct technical service and
support. Technical support is provided either through a toll-free number or
web-based support during scheduled business hours, and via the website after
business hours, as well. Service and repairs on our speaker products sold in
the United States are performed at our Whitinsville site. Service and repairs
on our electronic products sold in the United States are performed at
approximately 100 authorized service centers located throughout the United
States. Internationally, our subsidiary in the United Kingdom, as well as our
independent distributors, are utilized to provide product support and are also
responsible for warranty repairs for products sold into their markets.
Additionally, certain products returned to stock are processed through a
contract repair facility in Shanghai, China.  

Research
and Development    

We pride ourselves on
employing the top engineering and product design talent in the
professional-audio and musical instrument industries. Research and development
teams are located in Woodinville, Washington; Whitinsville, Massachusetts; St.
Louis, Missouri; Shenzhen, China; and Victoria, B.C., Canada. We also utilize
third-party engineering service groups to supplement our in-house personnel.
Research and development investment was approximately $10.3 million, $7.8
million, and $7.7 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

Competition    

The professional audio
and musical instrument industries are fragmented and highly competitive. There
are many manufacturers, large and small, domestic and international, which
offer products that vary widely in price and quality and are distributed
through a variety of channels. We compete primarily on the basis of product
quality and reliability, price, ease of use, brand name recognition and reputation,
ability to meet customers  changing requirements and customer service and
support. We compete with a number of professional audio and musical instrument
manufacturers, several of whom have significantly greater development, sales
and financial resources. Our major competitors are subsidiaries of Harman  

4  

International Industries; Yamaha Corporation; Peavey Electronics
Corporation; and Fender Musical Instruments Corporation.  

Proprietary
Technologies    

We have a strong interest
in protecting the intellectual property assets that reflect original research,
creative development and product development. As such, we have sought
protection through patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and have
applied and filed for various design and utility patents, both domestically and
internationally. We have actively used certain trademarks, and have applied for
and registered specific trademarks in the United States and in foreign
countries. While the registration of patents and trademarks, and the use of
copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property protections provides
us with certain legal rights, there can be no assurance that any such
registration will prevent others from infringing upon these trademarks.  

Manufacturing    

In 2005, we continued to
streamline our manufacturing operations to focus on our core competency of
building loudspeaker systems at third party contract manufacturers. The
majority of our products are manufactured in Asia. We continue to operate our
Whitinsville, Massachusetts manufacturing facility, which focuses primarily on
the EAW brand, and our Yellville, Arkansas manufacturing facility, which
focuses primarily on guitar amplifiers. We have established a team in China who
manages and facilitates the transition of products from design to manufacturing
at our Asian contract manufacturers.   

Employees    

At December 31, 2005, we
had 704 full-time equivalent employees, including 172 in marketing, sales and
customer support; 113 in research and development; 346 in manufacturing,
manufacturing support and manufacturing engineering; and 73 in administration
and finance. Of our employees, 34 were members of an organized labor union as
of December 31, 2005.  

Website
Access to Reports    

Our website address is
www.loudtechinc.com. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this
report or into any of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K, the Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by our executive officers, directors
and certain shareholders pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, and any
amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website, as
soon as is reasonably practicable, after such material is electronically filed
with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC also
maintains a website, http://www.sec.gov, at which you may access all of our
filings of other persons who are required to file reports with respect to the
ownership, disposition, and voting of our equity securities.  

Item 1A.  Risk
Factors   

Dependence on Key Customer   . In 2005,
2004, and 2003 one customer, Guitar Center Inc., accounted for approximately
16%, 12% and 12%, respectively, of our net sales revenues. We anticipate that
this customer will continue to represent a significant portion of our sales
however, the customer is not obligated to continue purchasing products from us.
Were our relationship with this customer to deteriorate for any reason we could
lose a significant portion of our net sales revenues, which would have a
material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial
condition. 

5  

Liquidity and Debt Obligations   . Under
the terms of our U.S. credit agreements, we must maintain certain financial
covenants and ratios and must maintain adequate levels of eligible collateral
to support our borrowing level. The agreements also provide, among other
matters, restrictions on additional financing, dividends, mergers,
acquisitions, and an annual capital expenditure limit. The covenants in these
credit agreements may restrict our operations. If we are unable to generate
adequate levels of sales and operating profit, our lenders could declare us to
be in default of our obligations. If we are in default, there is no assurance
that the lenders would grant waivers or agree to restructure our debt or that
we would be able to attain other financing. If we default on our debt, our
lenders have a variety of remedies against us including accelerating all
amounts so that they come due immediately and foreclosing on their security
interests, which would allow the creditors to take possession of all of our assets.
Moreover, our debt obligations are largely cross-defaulted, which means that a
default under one of the agreements causes a default against each other credit
agreement. In such instances, if we cannot obtain alternate financing in a very
short period of time, we may have to suspend or discontinue our operations,
liquidate our assets or take other measures that would result in a material
adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. 

Our line of credit
accrues interest based on variable short-term interest rates. Increases in the
prime rate or LIBOR would increase our interest expense, which would adversely
affect our profitability and cash flows.  

Competition   . Our industry is highly
competitive, and we face competition from a number of well-known brands
including Yamaha, Harman-Kardon, Peavey and Fender. Many of our competitors are
substantially better capitalized and have substantially stronger market
presence than we have. We also expect increasing competition from both established
and emerging companies. Competition may have the effects of reducing the prices
we can charge for our products, increasing our marketing costs associated with
developing and maintaining our market niche, or reducing the demand for our
products. If we fail to compete successfully against current and future sources
of competition, our profitability and financial performance will be adversely
affected, and those effects may be material. 

Acquisitions
and Business Combinations.    We have acquired businesses in the past, and
we may do so in the future. We may pursue additional acquisitions of
complementary technologies or product lines. Further acquisitions may include
risks of entering markets where we have no or limited prior experience, the
potential loss of key employees of the acquired company, and impairment of
relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners. Further
acquisitions may also impact our financial position. For example, we may use
significant cash or incur additional debt, which would weaken our financial
position. We cannot guarantee that future acquisitions will improve our
business or operating results.  

Variability
in Quarterly Operating Results.    Our operating results
tend to vary from quarter to quarter. Revenue in each quarter is substantially
dependent on orders received within that quarter as well as product
availability. Conversely, our expenditures are based on investment plans and
estimates of future revenues. We may, therefore, be unable to quickly reduce
spending if revenues decline in a given quarter. As a result, operating results
for such quarters would be adversely impaired. Results of operations for any
one quarter is not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. 

Other factors which may
cause quarterly results to fluctuate include:  

increased
competition in niche markets; 

            timing
of new product announcements; 

            product
releases and pricing changes by us or our competitors; 

6  

market
acceptance or delays in the introduction of new products; 

            production
constraints; 

            the
timing of significant orders; 

            customers 
budgets; and 

            foreign
currency exchange rates. 

It is
likely in some quarters our operating results will be adversely affected by
these factors.  

Rapid
Technological Change.    Product technology evolves rapidly,
making timely product innovation essential to success in the marketplace. The
introduction of products with improved technologies or features may render our
existing products obsolete and unmarketable. If we cannot develop products in a
timely manner in response to industry changes, or if our products do not
perform well, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected.
Also, new products may contain defects or errors which could cause the products
to fail to gain market acceptance. 

Product
Liability.    Some of our products, such as amplifiers, speakers
and sound mixers, are electronically powered and carry a risk of electrical
shock or fire. These and other products create a risk that our customers or
third parties may bring claims that our products have caused property damage,
physical injury or death. In extreme cases these claims may be asserted as
class actions, contending that such products brought harm to large numbers of
people. These types of litigation, if threatened or brought, may be costly and
may distract management s attention from operating our business, whether or not
we ultimately are adjudged to be liable and whether or not we settle such an action. 

Dependence
on Suppliers.    Certain parts used in our products are
currently available from either a single supplier or from a limited number of
suppliers. If we cannot develop alternative sources of these components, or if
we experience deterioration in our relationship with these suppliers, there may
be delays or reductions in product introductions or shipments, which may
materially adversely affect our operating results. 

Because we rely on a
small number of suppliers for certain parts, we are subject to possible price
increases by these suppliers. Also, we may be unable to accurately forecast our
production schedule. If we underestimate our production schedule, suppliers may
be unable to meet our demand for components. This delay in the supply of key components
may materially adversely affect our business.  

Use
of Third Party Distribution Centers.    We store and ship
the majority of our products from our Woodinville, Washington and St. Louis,
Missouri locations. In addition, we utilize third party distribution centers in
Europe and Asia. These distribution centers may encounter personnel issues,
business disruptions, information systems outages or other disruptions, which
may not be remedied quickly, resulting in delays in shipments of our products.
Failure to maintain adequate systems and internal controls at these facilities
could result in customer shipments being delayed or otherwise improperly
transacted, potentially resulting in lost revenue, products or customers. 

Use
of Contract Manufacturers.    The majority of our products
are manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. Third-party
manufacturing creates additional risks including: 

reduction
in control of the manufacturing process; 

            longer
lead times for transitions of newly released products from engineering to full
release; 

            lead
times for transitions of existing products to new third party manufacturers; 

            reduced
flexibility in reacting to demand changes; 

            increased
transportation cost and delivery times; 

7  

fluctuations
in currency exchange rates (specifically the  floating  currency rate in
China);  

            delays
or inability to source parts on reasonable payment terms; and 

            concentration
of production by certain key manufacturers. 

Manufacturing in China.    Our
ability to import products from China at current tariff levels could be
materially and adversely affected if the  normal trade relations  ( NTR ,
formerly  most favored nation ) status the United States government has granted
to China for trade and tariff purposes is terminated. As a result of its NTR
status, China receives the same favorable tariff treatment that the United
States extends to its other  normal  trading partners. China s NTR status,
coupled with its membership in the World Trade Organization, could eventually
reduce barriers to manufacturing products in and exporting products from China.
However, we cannot provide any assurance that China s WTO membership or NTR
status will not change. 

International
Operations.    We have significant net sales to customers
outside the United States and believe that international sales will continue to
represent a significant portion of our revenue. International sales may
fluctuate due to various factors, including: 

changes
in regulatory requirements; 

            tariffs
and taxes; 

            increases
in freight costs, or damage or loss in shipment; 

            difficulties
in staffing and managing foreign operations; 

            longer
average payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; 

            fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates; 

            product
safety and other certification requirements; and 

            political
and economic instability, wars and terrorist activity. 

Sales Regulations   . In the United
States, our products must comply with various regulations and standards defined
by the Federal Communications Commission, the Consumer Products Safety
Commission and Underwriters  Laboratories. Internationally, our products may be
required to comply with regulations or standards established by
telecommunications authorities in the countries into which we sell our
products, as well as various multinational or extranational bodies. Recent
environmental legislation in the European Union may increase our costs of doing
business internationally as we comply with and implement these new
requirements. The European Union, or EU, has issued a directive on the
restriction of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical
equipment, known as RoHs, and has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic
Equipment, or WEEE, directive applicable to persons who import electrical or
electronic equipment into Europe. Although neither of these directives is
applicable to our products as of the date of this report, both are expected to
become effective in 2006. We are currently implementing measures to comply with
each of these directives as individual EU nations adopt their implementation
guidelines. Although we believe our products are currently in compliance with
domestic and international standards and regulations in countries to which we
export, we can offer no assurances that our existing and future product
offerings will remain compliant with evolving standards and regulations. If we
fail to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or
certification, we may be unable to sell our products into jurisdictions to
which these standards apply, which may prevent us from sustaining our revenues
or maintaining profitability.  

Protection
of Intellectual Property.    We have a strong interest in
protecting the intellectual property assets that reflect original research,
creative development, and product development. As such, we have sought
protection through patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets. Along
with extensive trademark and patent registration and filings, we have claimed
copyright protection for works of original authorship, including product
brochures, literature, advertisement, and web pages. While certain legal 

8  

rights of enforceability are available to us, there can be no assurance
as to the ability to successfully prevent others from infringing upon our
intellectual property.  

We have never conducted a
comprehensive patent search relating to the technology used in our products,
however, we believe that our products do not infringe upon the proprietary
rights of others. There can be no assurance, however, that others will not
assert infringement claims against us in the future or that those claims, if
brought, will not be successful.  

While we pursue patent,
trademark and copyright protection for products and various marks, we also rely
on the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants,
development partners and contract manufacturers to protect our trade secrets,
proprietary information and other intellectual property. There can be no
assurance, however, that these confidentiality agreements will be honored or
will be effective in protecting our trade secrets, proprietary information and
other intellectual property. Moreover, there can be no assurance that others
will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information
and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets.  

Dependence
on Key Personnel.    Our future success will depend in a
large part on the continued service of many of our technical, marketing, sales
and management personnel and on our ability to attract, train, motivate and
retain highly qualified employees. Our employees may voluntarily terminate
their employment at any time. The loss of the services of key personnel or the
inability to attract new personnel could have a material adverse effect upon
our results of operations. 

Restructured Sales Force     .   In early 2006, we decided to eliminate
our relationship with independent representatives in the United States and
Canada who sell Mackie and TAPCO brands, and instead use an existing domestic
employee sales force that had, and will continue to, sell existing St. Louis
Music brands. Our independent representatives have had strong relationships with
our distributors and retailers, and if our new sales force is unable to
continue and grow these relationships, sales could be negatively affected.  

Item 2.  Properties   

We
own one building, a 63,250  square foot building located on 7.66 acres in
Yellville, Arkansas, the remainder of our properties are leased. The building
we own is primarily used for manufacturing. We lease facilities in Woodinville, Washington totaling
approximately 170,000 sq. ft. to house our corporate headquarters as well as a
distribution center. The lease on the approximately 80,000 sq. ft. of
distribution and warehouse space was renewed in January of 2006 and expires
July 31, 2011. The lease on the approximately 90,000 sq. ft. of corporate
headquarters and distribution center was renewed in May of 2005 and expires
December 31, 2011. We lease a series of connected buildings in a manufacturing
complex in Whitinsville, Massachusetts, totaling 220,285 sq. ft. This lease
continues through April 2008. We lease a warehouse (approximately 78,000 sq.
ft), a research and development center (approximately 26,000 sq. ft), and a
warehouse with office space (approximately 67,000 sq. ft) all located in St.
Louis, Missouri. All three of these leases were renewed and extended with the
acquisition of St. Louis Music, Inc. The warehouse was renewed again in
February of 2006 and now expires June 30, 2009, the R D center and the main
office/warehouse expire March 5, 2008. The lessors for two of the St. Louis,
Missouri leases are immediate family members of Edward Kornblum, our Senior
Vice President of Entertainment and Artist Relations. We lease additional
smaller facilities in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia for our
regional sales and support offices. We believe our properties are adequate for
our anticipated needs.  

9  

Item
3.  Legal Proceedings   

On or about November 29, 2005, LOUD Technologies Inc.
and its subsidiary, St. Louis Music Company, were named as party-defendants in
a lawsuit in the United States District Court, Southern District of Florida.
The lawsuit, filed by Ace Pro Sound and Recordings and served upon the Company,
alleges individual and class action claims against LOUD, as well as other,
unrelated defendants. The claims include civil conspiracy, tortuous
interference, violation of Florida s state and the Federal Racketeering
Influenced and Corrupt Organization Act as well as Section 1 and Section 2
Sherman Act antitrust claims. Management believes these claims are completely
without merit, and LOUD has filed a motion to dismiss this case and intends to
vigorously defend these claims.  

In addition to the case
noted above, we are also involved in various legal proceedings and claims that
arise in the ordinary course of business. We currently believe that these
matters will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position,
liquidity or results of operations.  

Item 4.  Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Securities Holders   

No matters were submitted
to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2005.  

PART
II   

Item 5.  Market
for Registrant s Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters   

The Company voluntarily
delisted from the Nasdaq Small Cap Market  on February 7, 2003 because of
ongoing difficulties in satisfying certain of the Nasdaq continuing listing
requirements. The Company s stock began trading on the OTC Bulletin Board on
February 11, 2003. We applied for reinstatement to the Nasdaq Capital Market 
on November 23, 2005. Our stock began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market 
under the symbol  LTEC  on March 1, 2006.  

As of December 31, 2005,
there were 4,566,202 common stock shares of LOUD Technologies Inc. issued and
outstanding and approximately 105 shareholders of record. The following table
shows the high and low sales prices for our common stock for the periods
indicated. Prices reported in this table are adjusted to reflect the 1-for-5
reverse split announced on November 3, 2005 and effected November 17, 2005.   

10  

We have not paid
dividends on our common stock in the past, and it is not anticipated that cash
dividends will be paid on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future.
Any future dividends will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of
operations, current and anticipated cash requirements, acquisition plans and
plans for expansion, and any other factors that our Board of Directors deems
relevant. Under our current loan and security agreement, we are prohibited from
paying any dividends.  

Sales of
Unregistered Securities    

In connection with the
acquisition of St. Louis Music and pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement dated
March 4, 2005 by and among Loud Technologies, Inc., SLM Holding Corp., SLM
Merger Corp. and St. Louis Music, we issued 79,358 shares of common stock to
Edward Kornblum, one of the shareholders of St. Louis Music. The shares were
issued in an unregistered private placement in reliance upon an exemption from
registration set forth in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended.  

On August 29, 2005 we
issued 51,547 shares of common stock, par value $14.55 per share, to certain
institutional and accredited investors in accordance with Rule 506 of
Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The
consideration for these shares was cash in the amount of $750,000 and the
proceeds of such sale are to be used for debt retirement and working capital.  

Equity
Compensation Plan Information    

The Company has a
shareholder-approved equity plan that enables the Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors to make stock option awards.  

The table below provides
information, as of December 31, 2005, concerning securities under current and
former equity compensation plans.  

Plan Category   

(a) 
  Number of securities 
  to be issued upon 
  exercise of 
  outstanding options, 
  warrants and rights   

(b) 
  Weighted-average 
  exercise price of 
  outstanding 
  options, warrants   
     and rights   

(c) Number of securities 
  remaining available for 
  future issuance under 
  equity compensation plans 
  (excluding securities 
  reflected in Column (a))   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders  

628,712  

15.27  

869,579  

Total  

628,712  

15.27  

869,579  

During July 2003, our
board of directors adopted the 2003 Stock Option Plan (the 2003 Plan),
authorizing options to purchase 345,600 shares of common stock. The 2003 Plan
calls for options to be non-qualified stock options with exercise prices equal
to the fair market value of the stock on the date granted. Options generally
vest over a five-year period and expire on the earlier of ten years from grant
date or three months from termination. If an option holder is terminated for
Cause, as defined in the 2003 Plan, the options would terminate a day prior to
termination. At December 31, 2005, 61,000 shares of common stock were
available for future grants under the 2003 Plan.  

The Company also has a
1995 Stock Option Plan (the 1995 Plan), which authorized 1.3 million
shares of common stock for grants. The exercise price of incentive stock
options granted under the 1995 Plan may not be less than the fair market value
of the common stock on the date of grant. The exercise price of nonqualified
stock options granted under the plan may be greater or less than the fair
market value of the common stock on the date of grant, as determined by the
stock option committee of the board of directors at its discretion. Options
generally vest over a four to five-year period and expire no later than ten
years after the date of grant. At December 31, 2005, 809,000 shares of
common stock were available for future grants under the 1995 Plan.  

11  

Item
6.  Selected Consolidated Financial Data   

The following
selected Consolidated Statements of Operations data for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2005 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet
data as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 are derived from our audited
Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere herein. The selected
Statements of Operations data for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001 and the Balance Sheet data as of December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001
were derived from our audited Financial Statements, as restated for
discontinued operations, which are not included in this Form 10-K. The
following data should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the consolidated
financial statements of the Company, including the notes thereto, included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  

12  

(a)      The
consolidated statements of operations data for years ended 2003, 2002 and 2001
have been restated for discontinued operations. 

(b)      Included
in operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2002, is a $15,829
non-cash charge relating to the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived
assets. 

(c)      Long-term
debt excludes current portion. 

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

The
following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with  Selected
Consolidated Financial Data  and the Consolidated Financial Statements and
Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This discussion
contains certain  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks and uncertainties,
such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions.
Actual results could differ materially from those discussed here. The
cautionary statements made in this Annual Report should be read as being
applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear. Factors that
could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in  Risk
Factors,  as well as those discussed elsewhere herein. We undertake no
obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these
forward-looking statements that may be required to reflect events or
circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of
unanticipated events.   

General   

We develop, manufacture, and sell high-quality,
affordable sound reinforcement speakers, analog mixers, guitar and bass
amplifiers, professional loudspeaker systems, violins and other stringed
instruments, and digital mixers on a worldwide basis. Our products are used by
both professional and amateur musicians; school music programs; sound
installation contractors and broadcast professionals in sound recordings, live
presentations systems and installed sound systems. We distribute our products
primarily through retail dealers, mail order outlets and installed sound
contractors. We have our primary operations in the United States with smaller
operations in the United Kingdom, Canada, China and Japan.  

We had a significant improvement in our operating
results in 2005, owing in part to our acquisition of St. Louis Music, Inc., on
March 4, 2005 and in part to improved margins due to the continued transition
of manufacturing to Asia. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005,
revenue increased 65.7% to $204.3 million from $123.3 million for 2004. Revenue
for 2005 included $67.2 million attributable to St. Louis Music, Inc., without
which our year-over-year improvements in revenues  

13  

would have been $13.8 million, or 11.2%. Operating income for 2005
increased by 553.8% to $8.5 million, or 4.2% of sales, compared to $1.3
million, or 1.1% of sales, for 2004. Income from continuing operation rose to
$0.9 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, compared to a loss from continuing
operations of $2.3 million, or $0.52 per share, for 2004. Net income for 2005
was $3.8 million, or $0.76 per diluted share, which included a gain on sale of
the Company s discontinued operations in Italy of $2.8 million (net of tax), or
$0.57 per diluted share. This compares to a net loss for 2004 of $2.3 million,
or $0.52 per share. All per-share amounts in this report are adjusted to
reflect the 1-for-5 reverse stock split that was effected on November 17, 2005.  

Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates   

Our discussion and
analysis of our financial condition and results of operations following are
based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation
of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses, and
related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  

We believe that the
estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies
described below have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements,
so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Because of the
uncertainty inherent in these matters, actual results could differ from the
estimates we use in applying the critical accounting policies. Certain of these
critical accounting policies affect working capital account balances, including
the policies for revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts,
inventory valuation and income taxes. These policies require that we make
estimates in the preparation of our financial statements as of a given date.
However, since our business cycle is relatively short, actual results related
to these estimates are generally known within the six-month period following
the financial statement date. Thus, these policies generally affect only the
timing of reported amounts.  

Inventory Valuation   . LOUD inventories are stated at the lower of
standard cost, which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out method,
or market for Mackie, EAW, SIA and TAPCO brands. For the Crate, Alvarez,
Knilling, and Ampeg brands, the inventory is valued at the lower of average
cost or market. Included in our inventories balance are demonstration products
used by our sales representatives and marketing department including finished
goods that have been shipped to customers for evaluation. Market value
adjustments are recorded for excess and obsolete material, slow-moving product,
service and demonstration products. We make judgments regarding the carrying value
of our inventory based upon current market conditions. These conditions may
change depending upon competitive product introductions, customer demand and
other factors. If the market for our previously released products changes, we
may be required to write down the cost of our inventory. 

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts     .   We make ongoing estimates relating to the
collectibility of our accounts receivable and maintain an allowance for
estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to meet their
financial obligations to us. In determining the amount of the allowance, we
consider our historical level of credit losses and make judgments about the
creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations.
Since we cannot predict future changes in the financial stability of our
customers, actual future losses from uncollectible accounts may differ from our
estimates. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate,
resulting in their inability to make payments, a larger allowance may be
required. In the event we determine a smaller or larger allowance appropriate,
we would record a credit or a charge to selling, general, and administrative
expense in the period in which we made such a determination. 

14  

Long-lived Assets      .    We assess the impairment of long-lived
assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. Significant judgment is used in assessing factors
which might trigger impairment including significant underperformance relative
to expected operating results, significant changes in our use of the assets or
the strategy for our overall business, and significant negative industry or
economic trends. As we continue to review our distribution methods and
transition our manufacturing to third parties, this may result in circumstances
where the carrying value of certain long-lived assets may not be recoverable. 

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.    We adopted SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets,  effective January 1, 2002. In accordance with
SFAS No. 142, we no longer amortize goodwill and intangible assets with
indefinite lives, but instead we measure these assets for impairment at least
annually, or when events indicate that impairment exists. At December 31, 2005,
we had goodwill of $2.2 million. We will continue to amortize intangible assets
that have definite lives over their useful lives.  

Revenue
Recognition     .    Revenues from sales of products, net of sales
discounts, returns and allowances, are generally recognized upon shipment under
an agreement with a customer when risk of loss has passed to the customer, all
significant contractual obligations have been satisfied, the fee is fixed or determinable
and collection of the resulting receivable is considered probable. Products are
generally shipped  FOB shipping point  with no right of return. We do have some
dealers who finance their purchases through finance companies. We have a
manufacturer s repurchase agreement with the finance companies. We defer the
revenue and related cost of goods sold of these sales at the time of the sale.
We then recognize the revenue and related cost of goods sold of these sales
when the right of return no longer exists. Sales with contingencies, such as
rights of return, rotation rights, conditional acceptance provisions and price
protection, are rare and insignificant. We generally warrant our products
against defects in materials and workmanship for periods of between one and six
years, with the exception of Alvarez Yairi guitars which have a limited
lifetime warranty. The estimated cost of warranty obligations, sales returns
and other allowances are recognized at the time of revenue recognition based on
contract terms and prior claims experience.  

Income Taxes.    As part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are
required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we
operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure
together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing
treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in
deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated
balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets
will be recovered from future taxable income and to the extent we believe that
recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent
we establish a valuation allowance or change this allowance in a period, it may
materially impact the tax provision in the Statement of Operations.  

Accounting for
Acquisitions.     Significant judgment is required to estimate the fair value of
purchased assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition, including
estimating future cash flows from the acquired business, determining
appropriate discount rates, asset lives and other assumptions. Our process to
determine the fair value of trademarks, customer relationships, and developed
technology includes the use of estimates including: the potential impact on
operating results of the revenue estimates for customers acquired through the
acquisition based on an assumed customer attrition rate; estimated costs to be
incurred to purchase the capabilities gained through the developed technology
and appropriate discount rates based on the particular business s weighted
average cost of capital. Our process to determine the fair value of inventories
acquired was to estimate the selling price of the inventories less the sum of
costs to sell and a reasonable selling profit allowance.  

15  

Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended
December 31, 2004    

Net Sales   

Net
sales from continuing operations increased by 65.7% to $204.3 million in 2005,
from $123.3 million in 2004. Sales were positively impacted due to the
acquisition of St. Louis Music, Inc. Net sales of the St. Louis brands for the
ten months ended December 31, 2005 were $67.2 million, or 83.0% of the total
increase. The remaining increase in sales primarily related to increased
product availability from our contract manufacturers and the introduction of
new products. We have one significant customer who represented approximately
16% and 12% of our total revenues in 2005 and 2004, respectively. U.S. sales
represented approximately 63% of our total sales in 2005, compared to
approximately 58% in 2004. In 2006, we anticipate introducing and shipping new
products, resulting in increased revenues in 2006 over 2005. We will also have
twelve months of sales for the acquired brands of St. Louis Music, Inc., which
we anticipate will increase revenues in 2006.  

Gross
Profit   

Gross profit increased by
58.1% to $65.3 million, or 32.0% of net sales, in 2005 from $41.3 million, or
33.5% of net sales, in 2004. $14.5 million of this increase related to the
acquisition of St. Louis Music, Inc. $2.4 million, or 1.2% of net sales, of the
decline in gross profit percentage is a result of the impact of recording St.
Louis Music s inventories at fair value as a result of the purchase price
allocation of St. Louis Music.   

The remaining increase is due to higher sales in 2005
for Mackie, TAPCO and EAW brands. The reduction in gross profit percentage from
2004 to 2005 is primarily attributable to the addition of St. Louis Music
brands, which are typically sold at lower margin percentages. In 2006, we
anticipate our margins to remain in the 32%-35% range.  

Selling, General and Administrative   

Selling, general and
administrative expenses increased by 44.3% to $46.6 million in 2005, from $32.3
million in 2004. The primary cause of this increase was due to the acquisition
of St. Louis Music, Inc. Selling, general and administrative expenses for St.
Louis Music were $11.8 million for period from acquisition through December 31,
2005. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher marketing expenses and
higher commission expense and personnel expense as a result of higher revenues,
partially offset by decreases in rent and telephone expenses, and lower
allowances for doubtful accounts due to an improved accounts receivable aging.
We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in 2006 when
we will have a full year of expenses of St. Louis Music, Inc.  

Research and Development   

Research and development
expenses increased by 31.7% to $10.3 million in 2005, from $7.8 million in
2004, of which $1.9 million relates to the acquisition of St. Louis Music, Inc.
We anticipate our research and development costs will be higher in 2006
compared to 2005, due to investing in new products and improvements in existing
products, in addition to a full year of
expenses of St. Louis Music, Inc.  

Other
Income (Expense)   

Net other expense
increased $3.9 million, or 110.1% from $3.6 million in 2004 to $7.5 million in
2005. The causes of this increase were an increase of interest expense of $2.7
million, an increase in management fee of $0.7 million, an increase to other
expense of $0.8 million, partially offset by an increase to interest income of
$0.3 million.  

16  

The increase to interest
expense was primarily caused by the increase in debt related to the acquisition
of St. Louis Music, Inc., along with a rise in variable interest rates during
2005.  

The increase in
management fees of $0.7 million was principally due to higher EBITDA.
Management fees are paid to Sun Capital Partners Management, LLC quarterly and
are calculated as the greater of $400,000 annually or 6% of EBITDA, not to
exceed $1,000,000 per year. Of the $1.2 million of management fees expensed
during 2005, $1.0 million relates to the 2005 EBITDA calculation, $0.1 million
is a result of a correction to the management fee owed for the 2004 EBITDA
calculation, and the remaining amount is miscellaneous expenses incurred by Sun
Capital Partners Management, LLC, for which Sun Capital is entitled to
reimbursement pursuant to our Management Services Agreement dated February 21,
2003.  

Other expense in 2005 was
primarily due to the expensing of unamortized fees related to the prior debt
facility as a result of the refinancing of our debt facilities and foreign
exchange transaction losses. Other expense in 2004 was primarily a loss on
conversion of Sun Capital debt to equity, partially offset by income from the
sale of fixed assets.  

Income Tax Expense (Benefit)   

Income tax expense from
continuing operations was $47,000 and $58,000 from discontinued operations for
a total expense of $105,000 in 2005 compared to $12,000 in 2004. The tax
expense primarily consists of alternative minimum tax because the regular tax
is offset by the utilization of net operating carryforwards and by a
corresponding decrease in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. For 2004,
the entire tax expense related to our non-U.S. subsidiaries.   

At December 31, 2005, we
had net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes of
approximately $28.8 million, which if not utilized would begin to expire in
2024. Approximately $27.5 million of these loss carryforwards relate to the
United States and U.K. Approximately $1.3 million of these loss carryforwards
relate to our discontinued operation in France, which we believe we will not be
able to recapture. We have total net deferred tax assets, including our net
operating loss carryforwards, of approximately $16.0 million as of December 31,
2005. We have recorded a valuation allowance for all of the net deferred tax
assets as a result of uncertainties of future taxable income necessary for the
realization of these net assets.  

Gain on Discontinued Operations   

In March 2005, we
recognized a $2.8 million gain from the discontinued operations of our former
Italian subsidiary, net of tax of $58,000. This gain was a result of an
agreement with Mackie Italy to settle the net outstanding amounts owed by the
Company.  

Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended
December 31, 2003    

Net Sales   

Our
net sales from continuing operations in 2004 were $123.3 million compared to
$130.8 million in 2003, a decrease of $7.5 million, or 5.7%. Sales were
negatively impacted during the majority of 2004 due to shortages on certain
products. These product shortages were due to the migration of certain product
manufacturing from Woodinville, Washington to contract manufacturers, as well
as the closure of our Italian operations. We have one significant customer who
represented approximately 12% of our total  

17  

revenues in each of the years 2004 and 2003. U.S. sales represented
approximately 58% of our total sales in 2004, compared to approximately 63% in
2003.   

Gross
Profit   

Our
gross profit increased in 2004 to $41.3 million, or 33.5% of net sales, from
$29.3 million, or 22.4% of net sales in 2003. The improvement to our gross
profit in 2004 was due primarily to increased use of off-shore third party
contract manufacturers to produce our products as well as lower levels of write
downs of excess and obsolete inventory. Specifically, we took charges against
cost of sales of approximately $0.4 million in 2004 related to excess or
obsolete products compared to $5.7 million in 2003.   

Selling, General and Administrative   

Selling,
general and administrative expenses were $32.3 million in 2004, a decrease of
$3.4 million, or 9.6%, over 2003 expenses of $35.7 million. The primary causes
of this reduction were the full year benefits of the cost reduction initiatives
completed in 2003 as well as lower third party commissions in 2004 caused by
lower sales revenue.  

Research and Development   

Our
research and developments expenses were $7.8 million in 2004, an increase of
$0.1 million, or 0.9%, compared to 2003 expenses of $7.7 million.  

Restructuring Costs   

During
2003, we incurred $1.6 million in restructuring expenses, primarily representing
employee severance and related costs for displaced employees associated with
our closing down the manufacturing facility in Woodinville, Washington, after
production of goods had terminated.  

Other
Income (Expense)   

Net other expense during 2004 was $3.6 million
compared to $0.9 million in 2003. Interest expense was $2.9 million in each
year while other expense was $0.7 million in 2004 compared to other income of
$1.8 million in 2003. The primary component of other expense in 2004 was a $0.4
million loss on the conversion of Sun Mackie debt to equity while the primary
component of other income in 2003 was a $1.6 million gain related to favorable
settlements on liabilities of Mackie Designs Engineering Services BVBA ( Mackie
Belgium ), which was closed in 2003.  

Income Tax Benefit (Expense)   

We had income tax expense
of $12,000 in 2004 compared to an income tax benefit of $1.2 million in 2003.
During 2003, we received $5.0 million in income tax refunds related to carrying
back our taxable losses from 2002 to prior year s returns where we had paid
income taxes. The $1.2 million income tax benefit in 2003 represents primarily
the difference between income tax refunds received during 2003 in excess of the
estimated income tax receivable recorded at December 31, 2002.  

18  

Discontinued Operations   

Discontinued operations related to the operations of
our former subsidiary, Mackie Italy. We incurred a loss on discontinued
operations of $6.4 million in 2003. During 2003, the loss consisted of a $1.7
million loss on the disposition of Mackie Italy, losses from operations of $2.9
million, $1.1 million net interest expense, $0.5 million of income tax expense
and $0.2 million of other non-operating losses.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

On
August 29, 2005, a new credit facility was completed providing a $69.5 million
senior secured loan facility and a $14.8 million senior subordinated note. The
senior secured loan facility consists of a $40.0 million revolving loan (of
which $9.6 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2005), a $15.0 million
Term Loan A, and a $14.5 million Term Loan B. In connection with the senior
subordinated note, the Company issued 51,547 shares of common stock to the
subordinated lender at a per share price of $14.55.  

The
$29.5 million term loans under the Credit Agreement have quarterly principal
payments.  The term loans bear interest at the Bloomberg's prime rate or
LIBOR, both plus a specified margin.  This rate for Term Loan A was 7.88%
and Term Loan B was 8.38% at December 31, 2005.  Interest is due monthly
on each term loan. The final Term Loan A principal payment is due August 29,
2010. The final Term Loan B principal payment is due August 29, 2011. Under the
revolving line of credit, the Company can borrow up to $40.0 million, subject
to certain restrictions, including available borrowing capacity. Interest is
due monthly or at the end of a LIBOR period (but in such case no greater than 3
months) and is based on Bloomberg's prime rate or LIBOR, both plus a specified
margin.  The term loans and the line of credit are both secured by
substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, and are
both senior to other long-term debt.  The $14.8 million in senior
subordinated notes issued is subordinate to all amounts due under the Credit Agreement
and to any refinancing thereof.  Interest accrues on the senior
subordinated notes at a rate of 14% and is due quarterly. Of the 14% interest
rate, up to two percent may be added to principal on each interest payment
date. The principal under the Senior Subordinated Note Agreements is due
February 29, 2012.  

In February 2005, we made an offer to Mackie Italy to
settle any outstanding amounts owed by the Company to Mackie Italy for $4.7
million. This proposal was accepted by the Italian court appointed trustee on
behalf of Mackie Italy in May 2005. Under the terms of the settlement
agreement, we made additional payments of $2.5 million during 2005. We also
committed to pay $2.2 million during 2006. We recognized a gain on discontinued
operations of $2.9 million in 2005 related to this settlement.  

On
March 4, 2005, we acquired all of the shares of St. Louis Music, Inc., a
Missouri-based manufacturer, distributor and importer of branded musical
instruments and professional audio products for total cash consideration
including transaction costs of $35.3 million and the assumption of certain
liabilities of $7.2 million. The Company believes the acquisition will further
diversify the Company s product offerings and to help acquire, retain and
extend relationships with customers.  

As
of December 31, 2005, we had cash and cash equivalents of $0.5 million and
total debt and short-term borrowings of $56.0 million, including $2.2 million
payable to our former Italian subsidiary.  At December 31, 2005 we had
availability of $23.3 million on our revolving line of credit, net of a $3.2
million standby letter of credit issued for the commitment to pay the former
shareholders of St. Louis Music, Inc.  

Net
Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities   

Cash provided by
operations was $10.0 million in 2005 while cash used in operations was $1.2
million in 2004. In 2003, $122 million was provided by operations. Net income
for 2005 was $3.8  

19  

million, that included $4.5 million in depreciation and amortization,
$1.1 million in amortization of deferred financing fees and a $2.9 million gain
on discontinued operations. In 2005, a decrease of our receivables and
inventory levels provided cash of  $8.0
million, while a decrease of our accounts payable and accrued expenses used
$5.4 million of cash.  

In 2006, we anticipate
increasing our inventory levels to meet increased demand. We expect increases
in revenues to increase our receivables. Additionally, accounts payable is expected
to increase in 2006 due primarily to the forecasted increase in inventory.  

Net
Cash Used in Investing Activities   

Cash used in investing
activities was $37.0 million in 2005, an increase from $1.2 million used in
2004 and $1.8 million used in 2003. $35.3 million of this investing activity
was the acquisition of St. Louis Music, Inc. The remaining increase is due to
capital expenditures for equipment primarily used in manufacturing.  

As part of our third
party manufacturing agreements, most of our contract manufacturers require that
we invest in tooling equipment prior to the start of manufacture. Accordingly,
in 2006 we anticipate increasing spending on new tooling devices required to
build our products and other equipment used in the manufacturing process.  

Net
Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities   

Our cash provided by
financing activities was $27.0 million in 2005 and $2.1 million in 2004. Cash
used in financing activities was $12.9 million in 2003. Financing activities in
2005 related primarily to a new credit facility of $69.5 million consisting of
a revolving loan facility under which $9.6 million was outstanding at December
31, 2005, a Term Loan A of $15.0 million, a Term Loan B of $14.5 million, and
subordinated debt of $14.8 million. Along with this refinancing, we paid off
our existing note payable of $11.4 million, a term loan of $0.6 million, a
credit facility of $11.8 million, and incurred $3.8 million in deferred
financing costs. In 2004, financing activities related primarily to proceeds on
our existing line of credit, as well as payments on our long-term debt.  

Payments
and Proceeds from Long-term Debt, Line of Credit and Other Short-term
Borrowings   

Under the terms of the
line of credit and subordinated loan agreements, we are required to maintain
certain financial ratios, such as measuring our EBITDA to our total debt and
senior debt, and maintaining a certain fixed charge coverage ratio. The
agreement also provides, among other matters, restrictions on additional
financing, dividends, mergers, acquisitions, and an annual capital expenditure
limit.  

Our continued liquidity
is dependent upon the following key factors:  

Ability
to stay in compliance with debt covenants   

Our new senior secured
and senior subordinated loan agreements require us to meet certain financial
covenants such as capital expenditures limits and measuring EBITDA to senior
and total debt, as well as a fixed charge coverage ratio. The first measurement
date for these covenants was December 31, 2005, and as of that date we had met
all of our covenant requirements. We believe we will continue to meet these
requirements in each quarter of 2006.  

20  

Commitments   

We had the following
material contractual commitments related to operating leases for equipment
facilities at December 31, 2005. In addition, we had material obligations
related to short-term and long-term debt arrangements, excluding our accounts
payable, accrued liabilities and taxes payable of $27.3 million at December 31,
2005:  

With
the refinancing of our existing debt and cash flows from existing operations,
we believe we will have adequate resources to meet our obligations as they come
due through December 31, 2006.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements   

During the fourth quarter of
2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS 123R,  Share
Based Payment: An Amendment of SFAS Nos. 123 and 95.  The new standard requires
the measurement of all share-based payments to employees, including grants of
employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of
such expense in an entity s statement of income. Our options are typically
granted with vesting periods of 4-5 years, and we intend to amortize compensation
cost over this vesting period using the straight-line method. We will adopt
SFAS 123R, effective January 1, 2006, using the Modified Prospective
Application Method whereby previously awarded but unvested equity awards are
accounted for in accordance with SFAS 123R and prospective amounts are
recognized in the income statement instead of simply being disclosed. Once
adopted, we expect SFAS 123R will impact our financial results by significantly
reducing our net income. We expect the implementation of SFAS123R will have a
significant impact on our future results of operations. For the year ended
December 31, 2006 we expect our stock option expense to be between $0.3 million
and $0.6 million.  

In November 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs An Amendment of Accounting
Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 43, Chapter 4 . SFAS 151 clarifies that
abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and spoilage
should be expensed as incurred and not included in overhead. Further, SFAS 151
requires that allocation of fixed and production facilities overheads to
conversion costs should be based on normal capacity of the production
facilities. The provisions in this statement are effective for inventory costs
incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We do not
believe that the adoption of SFAS 151 will have a material effect on our
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

21  

In March 2005, the FASB
issued Interpretation ( FIN ) 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations . This statement, effective for the period ending December 31,
2005,  provides guidance to ensure
consistency in recording legal obligations associated with long-lived tangible
asset retirements. FIN 47 did not have a material effect on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.   

In June 2005, the
Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) reached a consensus on EITF Issue
No. 05-6,  Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold Improvements
Purchased after Lease Inception or Acquired in a Business Combination  ( EITF
05-6 ). EITF 05-6 requires that leasehold improvements that are placed in
service significantly after and not contemplated at or near the beginning of
the lease term be amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the assets
or a term that includes required lease periods and renewals that are deemed to
be reasonably assured at the date the leasehold improvements are purchased.
EITF 05-6 was adopted in the fourth quarter of 2005. EITF 05-6 did not have a
significant impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.   

7A. Qualitative and
Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

We are exposed to various
market risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency rates and interest
rates. We may enter into various derivative transactions to manage certain of
these exposures; however we did not have any derivative financial instruments
as of December 31, 2005.  

At December 31, 2005, we
had variable rate lines of credit with outstanding balances of $9.6 million.  In addition, our $29.5 million term loans
also had variable interest rates. As such, changes in U.S. interest rates
affect interest paid on debt and we are exposed to interest rate risk. For the
year ended December 31, 2005, an increase in the average interest rate of 10%,
i.e. from 8.08% to 8.89%, would have resulted in an approximately $346,000
decrease in net income before income taxes. The fair value of such debt approximates
the carrying amount on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2005. 

A
substantial majority of our revenues are denominated in U.S. Dollars, and
during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 approximately 13% of our
revenues were denominated in foreign currencies. We ordinarily do not engage in
hedging, rate swaps, or other derivatives as a means to minimize our foreign
currency risk and, instead, mitigate that exposure by limiting the portion of
our sales that are denominated in other than U.S. Dollars. Assuming the same
level of foreign currency denominated sales as in 2005, a 10% decline in the
average exchange rates for all these currencies would have caused a decline of
approximately $2.4 million, or 1%, of our revenues.  

Item 8. Consolidated Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   

The following
consolidated financial statements and supplementary data are included beginning
on page 23 of this report.   

22  

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

The Board of Directors and Shareholders 
LOUD Technologies Inc.:  

We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of LOUD Technologies Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of operations,  shareholders 
equity and comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2005. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of LOUD Technologies Inc. s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.  

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of LOUD Technologies Inc., and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles.  

23  

LOUD
TECHNOLOGIES INC.   

   AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

     Consolidated
Balance Sheets   

   December
31, 2005 and 2004   

   (In
thousands, except for share amounts)   

See accompanying
notes to consolidated financial statements.  

24  

LOUD
TECHNOLOGIES INC.   

   AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

     Consolidated
Statements of Operations   

   Years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003   

   (In
thousands, except per share data)   

25  

LOUD
TECHNOLOGIES INC.   

   AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

     Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income   

   Years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003   

   (In
thousands)   

See accompanying
notes to consolidated financial statements.  

26  

LOUD
TECHNOLOGIES INC.   

   AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

     Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows   

   Years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003   

   (In
thousands)   

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.  

27  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

LOUD TECHNOLOGIES INC.   

(1)           Description
of Business   

We develop, manufacture, and sell high-quality,
affordable digital and analog audio mixers, speakers, guitar and bass
amplifiers, branded musical instruments and related accessories, and other
professional audio equipment on a worldwide basis. Our products are used by
professional and amateur musicians; school music programs; sound installation
contractors and broadcast professionals in sound recordings, live presentations
systems and installed sound systems. We distribute our products primarily
through retail dealers, mail order outlets and installed sound contractors. We
have our primary operations in the United States with smaller operations in the
United Kingdom, Canada, China and Japan.  

(2)           Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies   

a)                                           Basis of Presentation  

The financial statements consolidate the accounts of
LOUD Technologies Inc. and our wholly owned subsidiaries. The companies are
collectively hereinafter referred to as  the Company,   LOUD ,  we,   our  and
 us.  All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated. Financial information includes St. Louis Music, Inc. for the period
March 5, 2005 through December 31, 2005. All common stock shares information
and share prices have been adjusted for the 1-for-5 reverse stock split that
occurred on November 17, 2005.  

b)                                                 Use of
Estimates    

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions
include the allocation of purchase cost to assets acquired and liabilities
assumed, the carrying amount of property and equipment and intangibles;
valuation allowances for receivables, inventories, and deferred income tax
assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from those estimates.  

c)                                                  Revenue
Recognition    

Revenues from sales of products, net of sales
discounts, returns and allowances, are generally recognized upon shipment under
an agreement with a customer when risk of loss has passed to the customer, all
significant contractual obligations have been satisfied, the fee is fixed or
determinable and collection of the resulting receivable is considered probable.
Products are generally shipped  FOB shipping point  with no right of return. We
do have some dealers who finance their purchases through finance companies. We
have manufacturer s repurchase agreements with the finance companies and defer
the revenue and related cost of goods sold of these sales at the time of the
sale. We then recognize the revenue and related cost of goods sold from these
sales when the repurchase obligation no longer exists. Sales with contingencies,
such as rights of return, rotation rights, conditional acceptance provisions
and price protection, are deferred until the contingencies have been satisfied
or the contingent period has lapsed. We generally warrant our products against
defects in materials and workmanship for periods of between one and six years,
with the exception of Alvarez Yairi guitars, which have a limited  

28  

lifetime warranty. The estimated cost of warranty
obligations, sales returns and other allowances are recognized at the time of
revenue recognition based on contract terms and prior claims experience.   

d)                                                 Advertising
Expense    

The cost of advertising included in selling, general
and administrative expense is expensed as incurred. For 2005, 2004, and 2003
these expenses totaled $7.1 million, $4.2 million, and $2.4 million,
respectively.  

e)                                                  Research
and Development Costs    

Expenditures relating to the development of new
products and processes, including significant improvements and refinements to
existing products, are expensed as incurred. Under our current practice of
developing new products and enhancements, the technological feasibility of the
underlying products is not established until the completion of a working model
at which time all product development is substantially complete. Accordingly no
such costs have been capitalized because the impact would not be material.  

f)                                                    Foreign
Currency    

The financial statements of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are
in United States Dollars in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 52,   Foreign Currency
Translation  . In 2003, due to the restructuring of our operations in
Europe subsequent to the sale of Mackie Italy, we determined the functional
currency of our remaining non-U.S. subsidiaries to be the United States Dollar.
Prior to the sale of our Italian operations in December 2003, we had entities
whose functional currency was the local currency of the country in which they
operate. As a result, all monetary assets and liabilities in the balance sheets
of these subsidiaries are stated in the United States Dollar. Foreign currency
transaction gains and losses are included in other income (expense). Realized
and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions are included
in other income (expense). For the year ended December 31, 2005 the amount
related to transaction losses was $466,000, whereas for the years 2004 and
2003, the amount related to transaction gains was $8,000 and $615,000,
respectively.  

g)                                                 Cash
Equivalents    

We consider all demand deposits and all highly liquid
debt instruments with maturity at purchase of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.   

29  

h)                                                 Accounts
Receivable    

Accounts receivable are
recorded at the invoice amount and do not bear interest. The allowance for
doubtful accounts is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses
in our existing accounts receivable. We determine the allowance for doubtful
accounts based upon our historical write-off experience, the current aging of
accounts receivable, and customer specific credit risk factors. Accounts
receivable balances are written off when we determine that it is unlikely we
will receive future remittances. We do not have any off-balance-sheet credit
exposures related to our customers.  

Allowances deducted from
accounts receivable for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003
are as follows (in thousands):  

*              Deductions
represent uncollectible accounts written off against the allowance, net of
recoveries. For 2003, deductions include $1,159 related to amounts included  in beginning balance of discontinued
operations sold in 2003.  

i)                                                    Inventories    

LOUD inventories are stated at the lower of standard
cost, which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out method, or market
for Mackie, EAW, SIA and TAPCO brands. For the Crate, Alvarez, Knilling, and
Ampeg brands, the inventory is valued at the lower of average cost or market.
Market value adjustments are recorded for excess and obsolete material,
slow-moving product, service and demonstration products. We make judgments
regarding the carrying value of our inventory based upon current market
conditions. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, we made adjustments, included in cost of
sales, associated with products that are no longer marketable due to a
combination of product obsolescence and poor field performance. Inventory
adjustments recorded in cost of sales associated with these products amounted
to approximately $0.4 million, $0.4 million and $5.7 million in 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively.   

j)                                              Property, Plant and Equipment  

Property,
plant and equipment are stated at cost, (fair value as of the acquisition date in
the case of St. Louis Music, Inc. acquired property, plant and equipment), less
accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are
computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
assets as follows: buildings, 20 years; machinery and equipment, 5 to
7 years; and furniture and fixtures, 3 to 5 years. Leasehold
improvements are amortized over the shorter of their useful lives or the term
of the lease. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred.  

k)                                                 Deferred
Financing Costs     

Financing
costs associated with debt financing are capitalized and amortized over the
term of the debt. The amortization periods are five years for our revolving
loan and Term Loan A, six years for our Term Loan B and six and a half years
for our senior subordinated note. The amortization method for the revolving
loan is straight line, whereas the Term Loans and senior subordinated note are
amortized using the effective interest rate method. As of December 31, 2005
accumulated amortization was approximately $232,000.  

30  

Expected future
amortization expense related to deferred financing costs is as follows (in
thousands):  

l)                                              Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  

Goodwill represents the excess of costs over fair
value of assets of businesses acquired. We adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets, as of January 1, 2002. In accordance with
SFAS No. 142, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are no
longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually, or when
events indicate that impairment exists (see Note 3). Intangible assets
that are determined to have definite lives will continue to be amortized on the
straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. Developed technology
and the trademark of EAW are amortized over 20 years. Trademarks, customer
relationships and developed technology due to the acquisition of St. Louis
Music are amortized over 20, 15, and 5 years respectively.   

m)                                              Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets    

The recoverability of long-lived assets including
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of
assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount
of an asset to estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to be
generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the
impairment to be recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying
amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be
disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or the fair value
less cost to sell. Factors which may trigger impairment include significant
underperformance relative to expected operating results, significant changes in
our use of the assets or the strategy for our overall business, and significant
negative industry or economic trends.  

n)                                                 Fair
Value of Financial Instruments    

The carrying amounts of cash, accounts receivable,
short-term borrowings, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and long-term debt
approximates their fair value because they are of a short-term nature or have
interest rates that approximate market rates.  

o)                                                 Stock-Based
Compensation    

Stock-based
employee compensation plans are accounted for using the intrinsic-value method
prescribed in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,   Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ,
and related interpretations including SFAS Interpretation No. 44,   Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock
Compensation, an Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25  . Under this
method, compensation expense is recorded only if the current market price of
the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price or if options were issued to
non-employees.  

We have
elected to apply the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS No. 123,   Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  
as amended by SFAS No. 148,   Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation   Transition and Disclosure  ,   an amendment of SFAS No. 123.    

31  

SFAS
No.123, as amended, permits companies to recognize, as expense over the vesting
period, the fair value of all stock-based awards on the date of grant. The
Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the
fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully
transferable. Because our stock-based compensation plans have characteristics
significantly different from those of traded options and because changes in the
subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate,
management believes that the existing option valuation models do not
necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of awards from
the plan. Therefore, as currently permitted, we apply the existing accounting
rules under APB No. 25 and provide pro forma net income (loss) and pro
forma income (loss) per share disclosures for stock-based awards made as if the
fair value method defined in SFAS No. 123 have been applied.  

The
following table summarizes relevant information as to the reported amounts
under the Company s intrinsic value method of accounting for stock awards, with
pro forma information as if the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No.
123 have been applied:  

The fair value of each
option granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model, assuming no expected dividends and the following weighted
average assumptions:  

For options granted with an exercise price equal to
the market price at the time of issuance, the weighted average fair value of
options granted during the years 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $14.85, $8.00, and
$4.35, respectively. There were no options granted in 2005, 2004 and 2003 for
which the exercise price was less than the market price.  

32  

p)                                                 Guarantees    

In the ordinary course of business, we are not subject
to any significant obligations under guarantees that fall within the scope of
FIN No. 45   Guarantor s Accounting and
Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others   except for standard indemnification and
warranty provisions and give rise only to the disclosure requirements
prescribed by FIN No. 45.  

Indemnification and warranty provisions contained
within our sales agreements are generally consistent with those prevalent in
our industry. The duration of product warranties is generally one to six years
following delivery of products, with the exception of Alvarez Yairi guitars,
which have a limited lifetime warranty.  

The warranty liability is
summarized as follows (in thousands):  

q)                                                 Income
Taxes    

In accordance with SFAS 109,  Accounting for Income
Taxes , we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax
consequences attributed to temporary differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases and tax credits and operating loss carryforwards. Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences and
carryforwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred
tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in
the period that includes the enactment date. The Company performs periodic
evaluations of recorded tax assets and liabilities and maintains a valuation
allowance if deemed necessary. The determination of taxes payable for the
current year includes estimates. In the event that actual results differ
materially from management s expectations, the estimated taxes payable could
materially change, directly impacting the Company s financial position or
results of operations.   

r)                                                   Computation
of Basic and Diluted Net Income (Loss) per Share    

Net income (loss) per share has been calculated under
SFAS No. 128,   Earnings per Share.   Basic
net income (loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of
common stock outstanding for the year including warrants and options to
purchase shares exercisable for little cash consideration. Diluted earnings per
share is computed on the basis of the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the year increased by the weighted average number of
potential common shares outstanding during the period, using the treasury stock
method. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, potential
common shares related to stock options of 430,000, 731,000, and 800,000,
respectively, wee excluded from the calculation of diluted net income (loss)
per share, as their effect wa anti-dilutive in 2004 and 2003, whereas in 2005,
they were excluded because they were out of the money.  

s)                                                   Concentration
of Credit and Supply Risk    

We sell products on a worldwide basis and a
significant portion of our accounts receivable are due from customers outside
of the United States. Where we are exposed to material credit risk, we
generally require letters of credit, advance payments, or carry foreign credit
insurance. No individual  

33  

country outside of the United States accounted for more
than 10% of net sales in any of the periods presented. Sales to U.S. customers
are generally on open credit terms. In the United States, we primarily sell our
products through third-party resellers and experience individually significant
annual sales volumes with major resellers. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, we had sales
to one customer of $32.4 million, $14.4 million and $15.6 million or 16%,
12% and 12%, respectively, of consolidated net sales from continuing
operations.  

Many of our products are currently being manufactured
exclusively by contract manufacturers on our behalf. During 2005, sales of
products manufactured by one manufacturer were $56.1 million, or approximately
27% of consolidated net sales, while sales of products manufactured by another
manufacturer were $21.9 million or approximately 11% of consolidated net sales.
No other contract manufacturer manufactured more than 10% of our consolidated
net sales in 2005.   

t)                                                    Recent
Accounting Pronouncements    

During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS 123R,  Share Based Payment: An
Amendment of SFAS Nos. 123 and 95.  The new standard requires the measurement
of all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock
options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in
an entity s statement of income. Our options are typically granted with vesting
periods of 4-5 years, and we intend to amortize compensation cost over this
vesting period using the straight-line method. We will adopt SFAS 123R,
effective January 1, 2006, using the Modified Prospective Application Method
whereby previously awarded but unvested equity awards are accounted for in
accordance with SFAS 123R and prospective amounts are recognized in the income
statement instead of simply being disclosed. Once adopted, we expect SFAS 123R
will impact our financial results by significantly reducing our net income. We
expect the implementation of SFAS123R will have a significant impact on our
future results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2006 we expect
our stock option expense to be between $0.3 million and $0.6 million.  

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,
 Inventory Costs An Amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB)
No. 43, Chapter 4 . SFAS 151 clarifies that abnormal amounts of idle
facility expense, freight, handling costs and spoilage should be expensed as
incurred and not included in overhead. Further, SFAS 151 requires that
allocation of fixed and production facilities overheads to conversion costs
should be based on normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions
in this statement are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2005. We do not believe that the adoption of
SFAS 151 will have a material effect on our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.   

In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation ( FIN )
47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations . This statement,
effective for the period ending December 31, 2005, provides guidance to ensure
consistency in recording legal obligations associated with long-lived tangible
asset retirements. FIN 47 did not have a material effect on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.   

In June 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force
( EITF ) reached a consensus on EITF Issue No. 05-6,  Determining the
Amortization Period for Leasehold Improvements Purchased after Lease Inception
or Acquired in a Business Combination  ( EITF 05-6 ). EITF 05-6 requires that
leasehold improvements that are placed in service significantly after and not
contemplated at or near the beginning of the lease term be amortized over the
shorter of the useful life of the assets or a term that includes required lease
periods and renewals that are deemed to be reasonably assured at the date the
leasehold improvements are purchased. EITF 05-6 was adopted in the fourth
quarter of 2005. EITF 05-6 did not have a significant impact on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.   

34  

u)                                                 Reclassifications    

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform with the current year presentation.  

v)                                                  Reverse
Stock Split    

On November 17, 2005, the Company effected a 1-for-5
reverse split of our outstanding common stock. Historical share numbers and
prices throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K are split-adjusted.  

(3)           Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   

In
June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS
No. 141,   Business Combinations  
and SFAS No. 142,   Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets  , which supercede Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 17,   Intangible Assets  .
SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations be accounted for under
the purchase method. The statement also specifies criteria for recognizing and
reporting intangible assets apart from goodwill; however, assembled workforce
must be recognized and reported in goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires the use
of a nonamortization approach to account for purchased goodwill and intangibles
having an indefinite life. Under a nonamortization approach, goodwill and
certain intangible assets are no longer amortized into results of operations,
but instead are reviewed for impairment and written down and charged to results
of operations only in the periods in which the recorded value of goodwill and
certain intangibles is more than fair value.  

We
adopted SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 142 prescribes
a two-phase process for impairment testing of goodwill and the timing of
transitional impairment steps. The first phase identifies indications of
impairment; while the second phase (if necessary), measures the impairment. As
required by SFAS No. 142, we performed an impairment test on the goodwill
acquired related to the acquisition of St. Louis Music, Inc. as of December 31,
2005, and determined no impairment was necessary.  

(4)                                         Discontinued Operations   

In
December 2003, we placed our indirect wholly owned Italian subsidiary, Mackie
Designs (Italy) S.p.A. ( Mackie Italy ), into an Italian form of
court-supervised liquidation and sold all of the shares of Mackie Italy to a
third party. Mackie Italy was a manufacturer of many of our speaker products,
which were purchased by the Company for subsequent sale outside of Italy. At
the time of sale, the Company owed Mackie Italy approximately $9.2 million
related to the purchase of goods in the normal course of business. During 2004,
we made payments to Mackie Italy of approximately $1.6 million, lowering our
liability to $7.6 million at December 31, 2004. Additionally, Mackie Italy had
a payable to a separate wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company for
approximately $2.7 million, which was fully reserved at the date of sale in
2003.  

In
February 2005, we made an offer to Mackie Italy to settle any outstanding
amounts owed by the Company to Mackie Italy for $4.7 million. This proposal was
accepted by the Italian court appointed trustee on behalf of Mackie Italy in
May 2005. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we made payments of $2.5
million in 2005. Additionally, we committed to pay $2.2 million during 2006. We
recognized a gain on discontinued operations of $2.9 million in 2005 related to
this settlement.  

The disposition of these operations is accounted for
as a discontinued operation. At December 31, 2003, we do not show any assets or
liabilities of this entity on our consolidated balance sheet. We have
reclassified and condensed the results of discontinued operations on our consolidated
statements of operations for all years presented. Cash flows from these
operations are included in our consolidated statements of cash flows for all
periods presented. Summarized operating results of the discontinued operations
for the year ended December 31, 2003, is as follows:  

35  

*Includes loss on disposition of $1.7 million.   

Interest
was allocated to discontinued operations based on actual debt held by Mackie
Italy. At December 10, 2003, the assets and liabilities associated with this
disposition were as follows (in thousands):  

(5)           Restructuring     Costs   

During 2003, management approved and implemented a
plan to restructure operations. Major activities primarily involved the
reduction of workforce due to our decision to close certain manufacturing
facilities. We incurred $1.6 million in restructuring expenses, primarily
representing employee severance and related costs for approximately 210
displaced employees.   

(6)           Inventories   

Inventories
consist of the following:  

36  

(7)           Intangible Assets   

Intangible assets
with finite lives consist of the following:  

Amortization
expense for intangible assets was $830,000, $424,000 and $408,000 in 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively.   

Expected future
amortization expense related to identifiable intangible assets for the next
five years is as follows (in thousands):  

(8)           Property, Plant and Equipment   

As of December 31,
2005 and 2004, property, plant and equipment consisted of the following:  

37  

(9)           Income Taxes   

Components of
income (loss) before income taxes are as follows (in thousands):  

The income tax
expense (benefit) is as follows (in thousands):  

The
allocation of income tax expense (benefit) is as follows (in thousands):  

38  

The tax effects of
temporary differences and carryforwards that give rise to significant
components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:  

Utilization of net operating loss carryforwards and
tax credit carryforwards may be subject to certain limitations under Section
382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Deferred tax assets of
foreign jurisdictions comprised $1.7 million and $1.2 million at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Deferred tax liabilities of
foreign jurisdictions were zero at December 31, 2005 and 2004.  

Reconciliation from the
United States statutory income tax rate of 34% to the effective income tax rate
is as follows:  

39  

At December 31, 2005 we had U.S. and
international net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
$28.8 million. Approximately $23.9 million of these loss carryforwards
relate to the United States, and approximately $3.6 million relate to the U.K. Approximately
$1.3 million of these loss carryforwards relate to our discontinued operation
in France, which we believe we will not be able to realize. These carryforwards
generally begin expiring in 2024.  

We have provided a valuation allowance on the net
deferred tax assets. Due to our history of operating losses, we have determined
it is more likely than not that they will not be fully realized since the
utilization of our deferred tax assets depends on future profits, which are not
assured.  

(10)        Debt
and Liquidity   

On August 29, 2005, a new credit facility was
completed providing a $69.5 million secured loan facility and a $14.8 million
senior subordinated note payable. The senior secured loan facility consists of
a $40.0 million revolving loan, a $15.0 million Term Loan A, and a $14.5
million Term Loan B. In connection with the senior subordinated note, the
Company issued 51,547 shares of common stock to the subordinated lender at a
per share price of $14.55. The Company deferred $3.6 million of financing fees
associated with this debt issuance, $3.4 million of which remained on the
balance sheet at December 31, 2005. Of the deferred financing fees, $0.9
million was paid to an affiliate of Sun Capital, a related party, as part of
this transaction.  

The Company's obligations under the Credit Agreement
and the Subordinated Note Agreements are automatically accelerated upon certain
bankruptcy or insolvency events, and may be accelerated upon the occurrence of
other events of default under the Credit Agreement and the Subordinated Note
Agreement, such as non-payment of principal, interest or fees when due, or
failure to comply with affirmative and negative covenants, subject to any
applicable grace periods.  

As of December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance
with all financial covenants.  

(a)     )                                    Short-Term Borrowings   

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the outstanding balance on our line of
credit was $9.6 million (current credit agreement) and $11.8 million (previous
credit agreement), respectively. At December 31, 2005, we had the ability to
borrow an additional $23.3 million on this current line of credit. Under the
revolving line of credit, the Company can borrow up to $40.0 million, subject
to certain restrictions that take effect December 31, 2005, including available
borrowing capacity. Interest is due monthly or at the end of a LIBOR period
(but in such case no greater than 3 months) and is based on Bloomberg's prime
rate or LIBOR, both plus a specified margin. Under the terms of the line of
credit and subordinated loan agreements, we are required to maintain certain
financial ratios, such as measuring our EBITDA to our total debt and senior
debt, and maintaining a certain fixed charge coverage ratio. The agreement also
provides, among other matters, restrictions on additional financing, dividends,
mergers, acquisitions, and an annual capital expenditure limit.  

The weighted average interest rate on total short-term
borrowings was 8.77% and 5.75% at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  

40  

(b)                                          Long-Term Debt   

Long-term
debt consisted of the following at December 31:  

Principal payments on the
$29.5 million Term Loan A and Term Loan B, under the Credit Agreement, are paid
quarterly.  The term loans bear interest at the Bloomberg's prime rate or
LIBOR, both plus a specified margin. This rate for Term Loan A was 7.88% and
Term Loan B was 8.38% at December 31, 2005.  Interest is due monthly on
each term loan. The final Term Loan A principal payment is due August 29, 2010.
The final Term Loan B principal payment is due August 29, 2011.   The term
loans and the line of credit are both secured by substantially all of the
assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, and are both senior to other
long-term debt.  The $14.8 million in senior subordinated notes issued is
subordinate to all amounts due under the Credit Agreement and to any
refinancing thereof.  Interest accrues on the senior subordinated notes at
a rate of 14% and is due quarterly. Of the 14% interest rate, up to two percent
may be added to principal on each interest payment date. The principal under
the Senior Subordinated Note Agreements is due February 29, 2012.  

In addition, we have a future commitment to pay the
former owners of St. Louis Music $3.0 million plus interest of 3%. This
commitment is due two years after the date of acquisition and was secured by a
standby letter of credit in September 2005.  

Principal payments on the United States term loan were
originally due in equal monthly payments over five years, beginning in
July 2003. A portion of the term loan was backed by U.S. based fixed
assets. Due to the sale of the Woodinville, Washington manufacturing equipment,
an additional $1.3 million was paid on the term loan in 2004. Additionally, in
August 2004, we executed a Loan Amendment Agreement which reduced the monthly
principal payment due on the term loan to $25,000. Interest was also due
monthly and was calculated at the bank s prime rate plus a specified margin.
This rate was 6.00% at December 31, 2004.  

In March 2003, we obtained a note payable for
$11.0 million, which was subordinate to the previous line of credit with
another lender. Interest accrued at a rate of 10%, of which 8% was paid monthly
while the remaining 2% was paid monthly if there was specific excess
availability on our line of credit; otherwise, the 2% interest was added to
principal. Principal and interest were originally due May 2006. During 2004, we
had added a total of $360,000 in accrued interest to the note payable.  

In August 2004, we executed an Exchange Agreement
whereby we exchanged our entire debt to Sun Mackie, an affiliate of Sun Capital
Partners, Inc., for 496,031 shares of common stock valued at $9.75 per share. We
recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt with this transaction of $0.5
million representing the difference in the carrying value of the debt and the
fair value of the common stock issued.  

41  

Aggregate annual principal payments of long-term debt
are stated below (in thousands):   

(11)        Related-Party
Transactions   

At December 31, 2003, we had a $4.0 million note
payable to Sun Mackie. This note was exchanged for common stock as discussed in
Note 10.   

We have a management agreement with Sun Mackie to pay
the greater of $0.4 million or 6% of EBITDA, as defined, up to $1.0 million,
per year to an affiliate of Sun Mackie. During 2005 and 2004, we recorded
expenses of approximately $1.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively, under
this agreement. Of the $1.2 million of management fees expensed during 2005,
$1.0 million relates to the 2005 EBITDA calculation, $0.1 million is a result
of a correction to the management fee owed for the 2004 EBITDA calculation, and
the remaining amount is miscellaneous expenses incurred by Sun Capital Partners
Management, LLC  

Edward Kornblum is the Senior Vice President of
Entertainment and Artist Relations for LOUD. Two entities owned by Edward s
direct relations are the landlords of two buildings leased by the Company. Under
one lease, we pay approximately $11,000 per month, and under the second lease
we pay approximately $8,000 per month. Edward s parents are 100% owners of the
entity that receives approximately $8,000 per month and 50% owners of the
entity that receives approximately $11,000 per month.  

(12)        Employee
Benefit Plans   

We currently have qualified profit-sharing plans under
the provisions of Internal Revenue Code Section 401(k) for all U.S. based
employees meeting the eligibility requirements. Contributions are based on a
matching formula as defined in each of the plans. Additional contributions may
be made at the discretion of the board of directors. Contributions to the
respective plans vest ratably over a 5-year period. Contributions to the plan
were $0.4 million in 2005, and $0.2 million in 2003. The Company made no
contribution to the plan in 2004.   

(13)        Net Income (Loss) Per
Share      

The following table sets forth the computation of
basic and diluted net income (loss) per share. Stock options representing
430,000, 731,000, and 800,000 shares in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, were
excluded from the calculation of diluted net income (loss) per share because
they were antidilutive in 2004 and 2003, whereas in 2005, they were excluded
because they were out of the money.  

42  

(14)        Shareholders 
Equity   

In February 2003, we finalized an agreement with Sun
Mackie, an affiliate of Sun Capital Partners, Inc., a private investment firm,
whereby Sun Mackie, purchased approximately 2.9 million shares of our common
stock for $10.0 million. Sun Mackie acquired approximately 1.5 million of these
shares from certain selling shareholders. It acquired approximately 1.4 million
newly issued shares directly from the Company for approximately $3.6 million. In
March 2003, Sun Mackie provided $4.0 million for a note payable and warrants to
purchase 240,000 shares of common stock at $0.05 per share. In August 2004, we
executed an Exchange Agreement whereby we exchanged our entire debt to Sun
Mackie for 496,031 shares of common stock valued at $9.75 per share. We
recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt with this transaction of $0.5
million representing the difference in the carrying value of the debt and the
fair value of the common stock issued. The warrants to purchase 240,000 shares
of common stock were still outstanding after this transaction.  

During July 2003, our board of directors adopted the
2003 Stock Option Plan (the 2003 Plan), authorizing options to purchase 345,600
shares of common stock. The 2003 Plan calls for options to be  

43  

non-qualified stock
options with exercise prices equal to the fair market value of the stock on the
date granted. Options generally vest over a five-year period and expire on the
earlier of ten years from grant date or three months from termination. If an
option holder is terminated for Cause, as defined in the 2003 Plan, the options
would terminate a day prior to termination. At December 31, 2005, 61,000
shares of common stock were available for future grants under the 2003 Plan.  

The Company also has a 1995 Stock Option Plan (the
1995 Plan), which authorized 1.3 million shares of common stock for
grants. The exercise price of incentive stock options granted under the 1995
Plan may not be less than the fair market value of the common stock on the date
of grant. The exercise price of nonqualified stock options granted under the
plan may be greater or less than the fair market value of the common stock on
the date of grant, as determined by the stock option committee of the board of
directors at its discretion. Options generally vest over a four to five-year
period and expire no later than ten years after the date of grant. At
December 31, 2005, 809,000 shares of common stock were available for
future grants under the 1995 Plan.  

In February 2003, as part of a separation agreement
with a former founder and director, we repriced options to purchase 66,000
shares with an average exercise price of $31.35 to a new exercise price of
$5.10 in exchange for a non-compete agreement valued at $285,000.   

The following
table summarizes the stock option activity for the three-year period ended
December 31, 2005:  

At December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 a total of
406,000, 512,000 and 492,000 options were exercisable, respectively. The
weighted average exercise price of these options was $18.65, $22.75, and $24.85
respectively.  

44  

The following
table summarizes information about options outstanding and exercisable at
December 31, 2005:  

(15)        Commitments
and Contingencies   

(a)           Commitments    

We have leases on two buildings in St. Louis, Missouri
that are owned by former owners, their relatives, and shareholders of St. Louis
Music, Inc. One building, a research and development center, has monthly rent
expense of approximately $8,000. The other building, a warehouse with office
space, has monthly rent expense of approximately $11,000. Both leases were
renewed at the date of acquisition and were extended through March 5, 2008. In
addition to these buildings, we lease another warehouse in St. Louis, Missouri.
This lease was renewed in February of 2006 and extended until June 30, 2009. We lease facilities in Woodinville,
Washington totaling approximately 170,000 sq. ft. to house our corporate
headquarters as well as a distribution center. The lease on the approximately
80,000 sq. ft. of distribution and warehouse space was renewed in January of
2006 and expires July 31, 2011. The lease on our approximately 90,000 sq. ft.
corporate headquarters and distribution center was renewed in March of 2006 and
expires December 31, 2011. We lease a series of connected buildings in a
manufacturing complex in Whitinsville, Massachusetts, totaling 220,285 sq. ft. This
lease continues through April 2008. We lease additional smaller facilities in
the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia for our regional sales and support
offices.  

Future minimum rental
payments under facility leases at December 31, 2005, are as follows (in
thousands):  

Total rent expense for 2005, 2004, and 2003 was
$2.4 million, $2.1 million, and $2.2 million, respectively.  

(b)           Contingencies    

On or about November 29, 2005, LOUD Technologies Inc.
and its subsidiary, St. Louis Music Company, were named as party-defendants in
a lawsuit in the United States District Court, Southern  

45  

District of Florida. The lawsuit, filed by Ace Pro
Sound and Recordings and served upon the Company, alleges individual and class
action claims against LOUD, as well as other, unrelated defendants. The claims
include civil conspiracy, tortuous interference, violation of Florida s state
and the Federal Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organization Act as well as
Section 1 and Section 2 Sherman Act antitrust claims. LOUD has filed a motion
to dismiss this case.   

We are also involved in various legal proceedings and
claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. We currently believe that
these matters will not have a material adverse impact on our financial
position, liquidity or results of operations.  

(16)        Geographic
Information   

As of December 31, 2005, our major operations outside
the United States include a sales and support office in the United Kingdom. Certain
geographic information for continuing operations for the three years ended
December 31, 2005 is presented in the table that follows. Sales between
affiliated entities are excluded from these amounts. Net sales, as shown in the
table below, are based upon the geographic area into which the products were
sold and delivered. The profit on transfers between geographic areas is not
recognized until sales are made to nonaffiliated customers.  

Sales to customers
outside of the United States approximated 37%, 42%, and 37% of net sales in
2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.  

As of December 31, 2005 we had inventory (net) and
receivables (gross) in foreign locations as shown in the table below.  

46  

(17)        Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)    (In thousands, except per share data, prior periods adjusted for 1-for-5
reverse stock split)  

(18)        Business Combinations   

On March 4, 2005, we acquired all of the shares of St.
Louis Music, Inc. ( St. Louis ), a Missouri-based manufacturer, distributor and
importer of branded musical instruments and professional audio products. The
Company believes the acquisition of St. Louis Music, Inc. will further
diversify the Company s product offerings to help acquire, retain and extend
relationships with customers. Our total purchase price was approximately $43.7
million, consisting of $33.7 million in cash; a commitment to pay $3.0 million
plus interest in two years, the present value of which as of the acquisition
date was $2.8 million, 79,358 shares of the Company s common stock, assumed
liabilities of $4.4 million and 
transaction costs of $1.6 million. The $3.0 million future commitment
plus accrued interest is secured by a standby letter of credit issued in
September 2005. The St. Louis Music acquisition was conducted through SLM
Merger Corp., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Included in
the Company s results of operations are the operations of St. Louis Music for
the period March 5 through December 31, 2005.  

47  

In connection with the
acquisition, the purchase price has been allocated as follows (in thousands):  

Changes
to the purchase price allocation from those reported in our Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2005 are as follows (in
thousands):  a decrease to property,
plant and equipment of $986 due to receipt of a final appraisal of the fair
value of the assets and an increase to accrued liabilities of $451, of which
$230 is due to a correction to the accrued vacation accrual and $221 is due to
a tax indemnification due to the sellers of St. Louis Music. The effects of the
above items less minor adjustments totaling approximately $51 caused a net
increase to goodwill of  $1,386.  

Goodwill of $2.2 million,
representing the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of
tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired, will not be amortized,
consistent with the guidance of SFAS 142. Amortization of the entire $2.2
million is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.   

48  

The
following unaudited pro forma information represents the results of operations
for LOUD and St. Louis Music, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, as if the acquisition had been consummated as of the beginning of each
period presented. Included in the St. Louis Music net loss for the year ended
December 31, 2005 are $2.1 million of St. Louis Music s transaction expenses
that relate to the sale of the business that are nonrecurring in nature. This
pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of what may occur in
the future (in thousands, except per share data):  

Included
in the pro forma adjustments are fair value adjustments that relate to
inventories and property, plant, and equipment; reversal of interest expense on
St. Louis Music, Inc. debt that was in existence prior to the acquisition;
recording of interest expense on the demand credit facility obtained as a
result of the acquisition; and amortization of the intangible assets recorded
as a result of the acquisition.  

Item
9.  Changes in and Disagreements With
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

None.  

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures   

The Company maintains
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15(d)-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the  Exchange
Act )) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in
the Company s reports under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules
and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the
Company s management, including the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.  

The Company carried out
an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the
Company s management, including the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the Company s  disclosure controls
and procedures  as of December 31, 2005, pursuant to Rules 13a-15(b) and
15d-15(b) under the Exchange Act. Based on that evaluation, the Company s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures, as of December 31, 2005, were effective in
timely alerting them to material information relating to the Company required
to be included in the Company s periodic SEC filings.  

49  

There has been no change
in the Company s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules
13(a)-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the fourth quarter
of 2005 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  

Item 9B. Other Information   

None.  

PART
III   

The information required
by Part III (Items 10 - 14) will be included in our definitive Proxy Statement
for our 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.   

50  

PART
IV   

Item
15. Exhibits, Financial Statement
Schedules   

(a)           Documents filed as part of this
report:  

1.     Consolidated
  Financial Statements:   

Report of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Consolidated Financial
  Statements   

Consolidated Balance
  Sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004   

Consolidated
  Statements of Operations for each of the years in the three-year period ended
  December 31, 2005   

Consolidated
  Statements of Shareholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income for each of the
  years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005   

Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
  December 31, 2005   

Notes to
  Consolidated Financial Statements   

All financial statement schedules
are omitted since the required information is not applicable, not required, or
the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements
or notes thereto.  

(b)                                    Exhibits:  See Index to Exhibits on Page 53. 

51  

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to
the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

LOUD
  TECHNOLOGIES INC.   

By:  

/s/ James T. Engen  

James T. Engen 
    Chairman, President, Chief 
  Executive Officer and Director    

Date:  

March 31, 2006  

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated
on April 14, 2003.  

Signature   

Title   

/s/ James T. Engen  

Chairman, President, Chief
  Executive Officer and Director  

James T. Engen  

/s/ Timothy
  P. O Neil  

Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Secretary
  and  

Timothy P. O Neil  

Treasurer (Principal Financial
  and Accounting Officer)  

/s/ Marc J. Leder  

Director and Vice President  

Marc J. Leder  

/s/ Clarence E. Terry  

Director and Vice President  

Clarence E. Terry  

/s/ R. Lynn Skillen  

Director and Vice President  

R. Lynn Skillen  

/s/ Rodger Krouse  

Director and Vice President  

Rodger Krouse  

/s/ Jason H. Neimark  

Director and Vice President  

Jason H. Neimark  

/s/ T. Scott King  

Director and Vice President  

T. Scott King  

/s/ Jon W. Gacek  

Director  

Jon W. Gacek  

/s/ George Rea  

Director  

George Rea  

/s/ C. Daryl Hollis  

Director  

C. Daryl Hollis  

52  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS   

Exhibits   

Description   

2.1  

Stock Purchase Agreement,
  dated as of January 16, 2003, by and among Sun Mackie, LLC, Mackie
  Designs Inc., Gregory Mackie, on behalf of himself and as the sole
  trustee of the Clair Mackie Irrevocable Trust, the Nathalia Mackie
  Irrevocable Trust, the Kathleen Staples Irrevocable Trust and the Christine
  Radke Irrevocable Trust, and C. Marcus Sorenson and Judith B. Sorenson, as
  co-trustees of the Children of Matthew Adam Sorenson Irrevocable Trust, the
  Children of Karen Marie Lopez Irrevocable Trust, the Children of Kimberly
  Kaye Parker Irrevocable Trust, the Matthew Adam Sorenson Irrevocable Trust,
  the Karen Marie Lopez Irrevocable Trust, the Kimberly Kaye Parker Irrevocable
  Trust and the Sorenson Family Trust. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1
  to Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 16, 2003.  

2.2  

First Amendment to Stock
  Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 7, 2003, by and among Sun
  Mackie, LLC, Mackie Designs Inc., Gregory Mackie, on behalf of himself
  and as the sole trustee of the Clair Mackie Irrevocable Trust, the Nathalia
  Mackie Irrevocable Trust, the Kathleen Staples Irrevocable Trust and the
  Christine Radke Irrevocable Trust, and C. Marcus Sorenson and Judith B.
  Sorenson, as co-trustees of the Children of Matthew Adam Sorenson Irrevocable
  Trust, the Children of Karen Marie Lopez Irrevocable Trust, the Children of
  Kimberly Kaye Parker Irrevocable Trust, the Matthew Adam Sorenson Irrevocable
  Trust, the Karen Marie Lopez Irrevocable Trust, the Kimberly Kaye Parker
  Irrevocable Trust and the Sorenson Family Trust. Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 2.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 21, 2003.  

2.3  

Second Amendment to Stock
  Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 13, 2003, by and among Sun
  Mackie, LLC, Mackie Designs Inc., Gregory Mackie, on behalf of himself
  and as the sole trustee of the Clair Mackie Irrevocable Trust, the Nathalia
  Mackie Irrevocable Trust, the Kathleen Staples Irrevocable Trust and the
  Christine Radke Irrevocable Trust, and C. Marcus Sorenson and Judith B.
  Sorenson, as co-trustees of the Children of Matthew Adam Sorenson Irrevocable
  Trust, the Children of Karen Marie Lopez Irrevocable Trust, the Children of
  Kimberly Kaye Parker Irrevocable Trust, the Matthew Adam Sorenson Irrevocable
  Trust, the Karen Marie Lopez Irrevocable Trust, the Kimberly Kaye Parker
  Irrevocable Trust and the Sorenson Family Trust. Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 2.2 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 21, 2003.  

2.4  

Third Amendment to Stock
  Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 21, 2003, by and among Sun
  Mackie, LLC, Mackie Designs Inc., Gregory Mackie, on behalf of himself
  and as the sole trustee of the Clair Mackie Irrevocable Trust, the Nathalia
  Mackie Irrevocable Trust, the Kathleen Staples Irrevocable Trust and the
  Christine Radke Irrevocable Trust, and C. Marcus Sorenson and Judith B.
  Sorenson, as co-trustees of the Children of Matthew Adam Sorenson Irrevocable
  Trust, the Children of Karen Marie Lopez Irrevocable Trust, the Children of
  Kimberly Kaye Parker Irrevocable Trust, the Matthew Adam Sorenson Irrevocable
  Trust, the Karen Marie Lopez Irrevocable Trust, the Kimberly Kaye Parker
  Irrevocable Trust and the Sorenson Family Trust. Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 2.3 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 21, 2003.  

2.5  

Management Services
  Agreement, dated as of February 21, 2003 by and between Mackie
  Designs Inc. and Sun Capital Partners Management, LLC. Incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 2.4 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 21,
  2003.  

53  

54  

10.5  

Industrial Real Estate
  Lease dated April 28, 1995, by and between  Woodinville II LLC,
  successor in interest to  Intrawest Properties Partnership U.S. and
  Mackie Designs Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
  Registration Statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933 on
  Form S-1, as amended, Registration No. 33-93514. 

10.6  

Mackie Designs Inc. 401(k)
  Profit Sharing Plan dated December 20, 1993. Incorporated by reference
  to Exhibit 10.15 to Registration Statement filed under the Securities
  Act of 1933 on Form S-1, as amended, Registration No. 33-93514.  

10.7  

Loan and Security
  Agreement, dated March 31, 2003, by and among Mackie Designs Inc. and Mackie
  Designs UK Plc, as borrowers, Mackie Designs Manufacturing, Inc., SIA
  Software Company, Inc. and Mackie Investment Co., as guarantors, and Congress
  Financial Corporation, as agent for and on behalf of the financial
  institutions which are parties thereto as lenders, and the financial
  institutions named from time to time as parties thereto as lenders.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated
  March 31, 2003.  

10.8  

Amendment No. 2 and Waiver
  to Loan and Security Agreement, dated April 16, 2004, by and among LOUD
  Technologies Inc. and LOUD Technologies (Europe) Plc, as borrowers; Mackie
  Designs Inc., SIA Software Company, and Mackie Investment Co. as guarantors;
  and Congress Financial Corporation, as agent for and on behalf of the
  financial institutions which are parties thereto and the parties to the Loan
  Agreement as lenders. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5.1 to Annual
  Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003.  

10.9  

Amendment No. 3 and Waiver
  to Loan and Security Agreement, dated August 3, 2004, by and among LOUD
  Technologies Inc. and LOUD Technologies (Europe) Plc, as borrowers; Mackie
  Designs Inc., SIA Software Company, and Mackie Investment Co. as guarantors;
  and Congress Financial Corporation, as agent for and on behalf of the
  financial institutions which are parties thereto and the parties to the Loan
  Agreement as lenders. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5.2 to
  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30,
  2004.  

10.10  

Amendment No. 4 and Waiver
  to Loan and Security Agreement, dated October 25, 2004, by and among LOUD
  Technologies Inc. and LOUD Technologies (Europe) Plc, as borrowers; Mackie
  Designs Inc., SIA Software Company, and Mackie Investment Co. as guarantors;
  and Congress Financial Corporation, as agent for and on behalf of the
  financial institutions which are parties thereto and the parties to the Loan
  Agreement as lenders. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5.3 to
  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30,
  2004.  

10.11  

Term Promissory Note,
  dated March 31, 2003, made by Mackie Designs Inc. to the order of Congress
  Financial Corporation in the principal amount of $2,500,000. Incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 31, 2003.  

10.12  

Pledge and Security
  Agreement, dated March 31, 2003, made by Mackie Designs Inc. to and in favor
  of Congress Financial Corporation, in its capacity as agent pursuant to the
  Loan Agreement acting for and on behalf of the financial institutions which
  are parties thereto as lenders. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
  Current Report on 
  Form 8-K dated March 31, 2003.  

10.13  

Patent Collateral Assignment and Security
  Agreement, dated March 31, 2003, by and between Mackie Designs Inc. and
  Congress Financial Corporation, in its capacity as agent pursuant to the Loan
  Agreement acting for and on behalf of the financial institutions which are
  parties thereto as lenders. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
  Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 31, 2003.  

55  

10.14  

Copyright Collateral Assignment and Security
  Agreement, dated March 31, 2003, by and between Mackie Designs Inc. and
  Congress Financial Corporation, in its capacity as agent pursuant to the Loan
  Agreement acting for and on behalf of the financial institutions, which are
  parties thereto as lenders. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
  Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 31, 2003.  

10.15  

Trademark Collateral Assignment and Security
  Agreement, dated March 31, 2003, by and between Mackie Designs Inc. and
  Congress Financial Corporation, in its capacity as agent pursuant to the Loan
  Agreement acting for and on behalf of the financial institutions, which are
  parties thereto as lenders. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Current
  Report on Form 8-K dated March 31, 2003.  

10.16  

Guarantee, dated March 31, 2003, made by Mackie
  Designs Manufacturing, Inc., SIA Software Company, Inc. and Mackie Investment
  Co. for and on behalf of Mackie Designs Inc. in favor of Congress Financial
  Corporation, in its capacity as agent pursuant to the Loan Agreement acting
  for and on behalf of the financial institutions which are parties thereto as
  lenders, and the financial institutions which are parties to the Loan
  Agreement as lenders. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Current
  Report on Form 8-K dated March 31, 2003.  

10.17  

Guarantee, dated March 31, 2003, made by Mackie
  Designs Inc., Mackie Designs Manufacturing, Inc., SIA Software Company, Inc.
  and Mackie Investment Co. for and on behalf of Mackie Designs UK Plc in favor
  of Congress Financial Corporation, in its capacity as agent pursuant to the
  Loan Agreement acting for and on behalf of the financial institutions which
  are parties thereto as lenders, and the financial institutions which are
  parties to the Loan Agreement as lenders. Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.8 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 31, 2003.  

10.18  

Second Amended and Restated Subordination Credit
  Agreement, dated March 31, 2003, between and among U.S. Bank National
  Association, as lender, Mackie Designs Inc., as borrower, and Mackie Designs
  Manufacturing, Inc., SIA Software Company, Inc., and Mackie Investment Co.,
  as guarantors. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Current Report on
  Form 8-K dated March 31, 2003.  

10.19  

Intercreditor and Subordination Agreement, dated
  March 31, 2003, by and among Congress Financial Corporation, in its capacity
  as agent pursuant to the Loan Agreement acting for and on behalf of the
  financial institutions which are parties thereto as lenders, and the
  financial institutions from time to time party to the Senior Loan Agreement
  as lenders, and U.S. Bank National Association. Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.10 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 31, 2003.  

10.20  

Stock Purchase Warrant, dated March 31, 2003,
  issued by Mackie Designs Inc. to Sun Mackie, LLC for the right to purchase
  1,179,429 shares of common stock. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11
  to Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 31, 2003.  

10.21  

Subordinated Promissory Note, dated March 31,
  2003, made by Mackie Designs Inc. to the order of Sun Mackie, LLC in the
  principal amount of $3,931,429. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to
  Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 31, 2003.  

10.22  

Loan Agreement dated October 21, 1999 between
  James T. Engen and Mackie Designs, Inc. in the amount of $250,000.
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999.  

56  

10.23  

Exchange Agreement
  dated August 3, 2004, among LOUD Technologies Inc., Sun Mackie, LLC, Randolph
  Street Partners V, and H.I.G. Partners, Inc. Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.19 to current Report on Form 8-K dated August 3, 2004.  

10.24  

Credit Agreement, dated
  August 29, 2005, among Loud Technologies, Inc., St. Louis Music, Inc., the
  financial institutions of other entities from time to time parties thereto,
  each as a Lender, Merrill Lynch Capital, a division of Merrill Lynch Business
  Financial Services Inc., individually as a Lender, as Administrative Agent,
  Sole Bookrunner and Sole Lead Arranger, and ING CAPITAL LLC, as Syndication
  Agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form
  8-K dated August 29, 2005.  

10.25  

Securities Purchase
  Agreement, dated August 29, 2005, among Loud Technologies, Inc., St. Louis
  Music, Inc., the other guarantors from time to time party thereto, and OCM
  Mezzanine Fund, L.P. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Current
  Report on Form 8-K dated August 29, 2005.  

10.26  

Subordination
  Agreement, dated August 29, 2005, among Loud Technologies, Inc., St. Louis
  Music, Inc., and certain of their subsidiaries, and Merrill Lynch Capital, a
  division of Merrill Lynch Business Financial Services Inc., as Administrative
  Agent, and OCM Mezzanine Fund, L.P. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3
  to Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 29, 2005.  

10.27  

Acquisition Agreement,
  dated March 4, 2005, by and among SLM Merger Corp., SLM Holding Corp., Loud
  Technologies, Inc. and St. Louis Music, Inc. Incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 2.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 7, 2005.  

*10.28  

Lease Agreement dated
  September 12, 1990, as amended to date, by and between Eugene M. Kornblum and
  Helen H. Kornblum, as landlord, and St. Louis Music, Inc., as tenant.  

*10.29  

Commercial Lease dated
  December 20, 2001, by and between Eugene M. Kornblum, Trustee of The Eugene
  M. Kornblum Trust Agreement Dated July 18, 1997, as to an undivided 25%
  interest as tenants in common; Helen H. Kornblum, Trustee of The Helen H.
  Kornblum Trust Agreement Dated July 11, 1997, as to an undivided 25% interest
  as tenants in common; and Carole A. Simon and Robert S. Simon, Trustees of
  The Carole A. Simon and Robert S. Simon Revocable Trust U/T/A dated November
  27, 1991, as to an undivided 50% interest as tenants in common, as landlord,
  and St. Louis Music, Inc. as tenant.  

*10.30  

Lease dated November 8,
  2000, as amended to date, by and between Cornerstone Industrial Fund I,
  L.L.C., as landlord, and Loud Technologies Inc., as tenant.  

*21.1  

Subsidiaries of LOUD
  Technologies Inc.  

*23.1  

Consent of KPMG
  LLP,-Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

*31.1  

Certification of Chief
  Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

*31.2  

Certification of Chief
  Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

*32.1  

Certification pursuant
  to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

57  

* Filed herewith   

58  

<EX-10.28>
 2
 a06-2390_1ex10d28.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.28   

AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT    
 [Congressional] 

THIS AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT  
( Amendment ) is made and entered into effective as of the      
day of March, 2005 (the  Effective Date ) by and between Eugene M. Kornblum and
Helen H. Kornblum (hereinafter collectively referred to as  Landlord ) and ST,
LOUIS MUSIC, INC., a corporation, existing under the laws of the State of
Missouri (hereinafter referred to as  Tenant ). 

RECITALS   : 

A.                                                   Landlord
and Tenant entered into that certain Lease Agreement ( Lease ) dated as of September 12,1990,
for land and all appurtenances, buildings and improvements located thereon
situated in the County of St. Louis, State of Missouri as more particularly
described in the Lease. 

B.                                                     Landlord
and Tenant now wish to amend the Lease as set forth herein. 

NOW, THEREFORE  , in consideration
of the foregoing Recitals, the mutual covenants and obligations contained
herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy
of which is hereby acknowledged and confessed, Landlord and Tenant agree as
follows: 

1.                                                       All
capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in the Lease. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency
between this Amendment and the Lease, this Amendment shall control. 

2.                                                       The
ending date of the term of the Lease as described in Paragraph 2 of the Lease
is hereby extended to and shall be February 29,2008, unless sooner
terminated pursuant to other provisions of the Lease, in     addition, Tenant shall have no further
renewal or extension options and any such rights in the Lease are deleted. 

3.                                                       Paragraph
3 of the Lease is hereby stricken in its entirety and replaced with the
following language: 

3.                                    Use
of the Premises . Tenant shall be entitled to have and to hold the Premises,
subject to the conditions herein contained, for any use permitted by law.
Landlord and Tenant shall comply with, and shall maintain the Premises in
compliance with, all laws and all requirements of all governmental authorities
applicable to the Premises and to the use thereof, and shall maintain the
Premises in compliance with the requirements of the insurance companies
providing the insurance required by subparagraph (b)(3) of Paragraph 4
below.  

4.                                                       Paragraph
5 of the Lease is hereby stricken in its entirety and replaced with the
following language: 

5.                                    Maintenance,
Repairs, Alterations and Restorations . 

(a)                      Tenant
shall, at its sole cost and expense, maintain and care for the building and
improvements located on the Premises, including landscaped areas, roadways and
the parking areas, except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (b) below.
Tenant shall, at its sole cost and expense, maintain and care for the Interiors
of the building and improvements, including all plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, electrical and sewer systems devices and installations. Tenant
agrees to keep the Premises free from any nuisance or filth upon or adjacent
thereto, Except as otherwise 

provided in subparagraph (b) below, all repairs
and alterations deemed necessary to the exterior and interior of the buildings
and improvements located on the Premises shall be made or constructed by Tenant
with the consent of Landlord; and all repairs, alterations, restorations,
buildings and other improvements so made or constructed shall remain as or
become, as the case may be, a part of the realty.  

(b)                     Landlord
shall conduct all structural maintenance and repairs to the foundation, the
exterior walls and the roof of the building as may be required for the
preservation, protection or restoration of the Premises, unless any such
maintenance and/or repair is required as a result of damage caused by the gross
negligence or willful acts and/or omissions of Tenant, its employees or
invitees, on or after the Effective Date. Landlord shall also conduct all
maintenance and repairs to the Premises that are required as a result of damage
caused prior to the Effective Date, and shall perform any such alterations
to the Premises as are required by law, except and to the extent such
alterations are so required due to improvements or intended improvements to the
Premises by Tenant. 

(c)                      All
repairs, alterations, restorations, buildings and other improvements made or
constructed to or on the Premises shall be performed by the responsible party
in a good and workmanlike manner, shall be pursued by the responsible party
with due diligence until the Premises will again be fit for occupancy of
Tenant, or until said construction shall be reasonably deemed completed by
Landlord, and shall be performed in conformity with all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations. Tenant shall not, under any
circumstances, allow or permit any lien for labor and material to attach to the
Premises. 

(d)                            Subject
to paragraph 6(b) below, Tenant shall pay for all costs and expenses
incurred by Tenant arising out of Tenant s obligations to make the repairs,,
alterations or restorations described in subparagraph (a) above. Landlord
shall also pay for all costs and expenses incurred by Landlord arising out of
Landlord s obligations to make the repairs, alterations or restorations
described in subparagraph (b) above.  

5.                                                       Paragraph
6 of the Lease is hereby stricken in its entirety and replaced with the
following language: 

6.                                                  Indemnification . 

(a)                                           Tenant
agrees that it will protect, indemnify and save Landlord harmless from and
against any penalty, damage or charge imposed for any violation of any law or
ordinance by Tenant, its agents, employees or anyone acting on behalf of
Tenant. Tenant further agrees that it will protect, indemnify and save Landlord
harmless from and against any and all claims, suits, demands, causes of action,
costs and liabilities arising from Tenant s use of the Premises on or after the
Effective Date, or from any act permitted, or any omission to act, in or about
the Premises by Tenant or its employees or invitees on or after the Effective
Date, or from any breach or default by Tenant of this Lease, except to the
extent caused by Landlord s negligence or willful misconduct. 

(b)                                          Landlord
agrees that it will protect, indemnify and save Tenant harmless from and
against any and all claims, suits, demands, causes of action, costs and
liabilities arising from any breach or default by Landlord of this Lease,
except to the extent caused by Tenant s negligence or willful misconduct,
Landlord further agrees that 

2  

it will protect, indemnify and save Tenant harmless
from and against any and all claims, suits, demands, causes of action, costs
and liabilities associated with, related to, or arising out of (i) the
maintenance and repair of the roof, including without limitation any removal,
disposal or other remediation required by law with respect to any asbestos
containing materials ( ACMs ) or presumed ACMs that may be present in the
roof; (ii) any underground storage tanks that may be or have been
present on the Premises; and (iii) without limitation to item (i) above,
the presence of any ACMs or presumed ACMs on the Promises; provided, however
that Landlord shall have no such indemnification obligation with respect to any
remediation, maintenance, encapsulation, removal, disposal, labeling or other
actions with respect to any ACMs, presumed ACMs or underground storage tanks
except to the extent such action is required under applicable laws.   

5.                                                       Paragraph
8 of the Lease is hereby stricken in its entirety and replaced with the
following language: 

8.                                                  Destruction
and Eminent Domain . 

(a)                                           Should
the entire area of the Premises, or such portion thereof as to interfere
materially with or curtail the operations of Tenant s business for a period in
excess of sixty (60) days, be destroyed by fire or other cause or be acquired
or taken by condemnation by any public or quasi-public authority or under the
power of eminent domain, this Lease may, at the option of Tenant, be terminated
and of no further force and effect from and after the date of such total
destruction or the effective date of the taking by such public or quasi-public
authority. Tenant shall have no interest in nor shall it share in any insurance
proceeds or condemnation award received by Landlord for the Premises. 

(b)                                          Should
only a portion of the Premises be so destroyed, acquired or condemned, and the
portion thus destroyed or taken be of such an amount as not to interfere
materially with or curtail the operations of Tenant s business for a period in
excess of sixty (60) days, then this Lease shall continue in full force and
effect as to the portion not so destroyed or taken with a reduction in the
fixed annual rent proportionate to the area of the Premises so destroyed or
taken for a period up to, but not exceeding, six (6) months, provided that
Landlord has in force business interruption insurance payable to the lender of
any indebtedness of Landlord which is secured by the premises in an amount
sufficient to pay the debt service on such indebtedness during the period of
rent reduction. The parties shall make all of the repairs and improvements
deemed necessary in order to restore the Premises to its original condition and
shall perform, pursue and complete said repairs and improvements in accordance
with the terms and provisions of Paragraph 5 above. The costs and expenses
incurred by Tenant in making said repairs and improvements shall be paid for by
Tenant and shall be reimbursed by Landlord, but only to the extent paid for by
the insurance proceeds or condemnation award received by Landlord. Upon
completion of said repairs and improvements in accordance with and as
determined by the terms and provisions of Paragraph 5 above, the fixed annual
rent, if reduced under the terms of this subparagraph (b), shall be increased
to the amount set forth in Paragraph 4.  

(c)                                                  The
fact of whether such destruction, acquisition or condemnation has materially
interfered with or curtailed the operations of Tenant s business for a period
in excess of sixty (60) days shall be determined by the mutual decision of
Landlord and Tenant. If 

3  

Landlord and Tenant cannot agree as to whether such
destruction, acquisition or condemnation has materially interfered with or
curtailed the operations of Tenant s business for a period in excess of sixty
(60) days, the fact shall be determined by arbitration in accordance with and
as provided by the Missouri Uniform Arbitration Act, Section 435.350
et. seq. R.S. Mo. 1994.   

6.                                                       Paragraph
9 of the Lease is hereby stricken in its entirety and replaced with the
following language: 

9.                                                  Default . 

(a)                                    In
the event that Tenant shall fail to pay any installment of rent within ten (10) days
from the date that the same shall become due hereunder or shall fail to pay any
insurance premiums or taxes and assessments within ten (10) days after
written notice from Landlord that the same shall be due, or in the event that
Tenant shall fail in the observance of performance of any of the other terms,
conditions and provisions of this Lease for more than thirty (30) days after
written notice of such default shall have been mailed to Tenant (provided,
however, that if Tenant shall promptly proceed to correct such failure upon
notice thereof then said thirty (30) day period if insufficient, shall be
extended for such reasonable time as may be necessary), or in the event
that Tenant shall be adjudicated insolvent or bankrupt pursuant to the
provisions of any state or federal insolvency or bankruptcy act, or if Tenant
shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or if a receiver
of the property of Tenant shall be appointed and such appointment shall not be
vacated within 120 days after it is made, or if Tenant shall allow or permit
any lien for labor or material to attach to the Premises, then Landlord,
besides other rights or remedies Landlord may have, shall have the
immediate right to pursue any one or more of the following remedies without
notice or demand whatsoever, which remedies are cumulative and not alternative; 

(i)                                              Landlord
shall have the right to remedy or attempt to remedy any default of Tenant, and
in so doing to make any payments due or alleged to be due by Tenant to third
parties and to enter upon the Premises to do any work or other things therein,
and in such event all reasonable expenses of Landlord in remedying or
attempting to remedy such default shall be payable by Tenant to Landlord on
demand. All sums so paid by Landlord and all expenses in connection therewith,
shall bear interest thereon at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) per annum or
the highest legal rate if less and if not otherwise demanded by Landlord shall
be deemed additional rent; 

(ii)                                           Landlord
shall have the right to terminate this Lease or terminate Tenant s right to
possession of the Premises without terminating this Lease forthwith by leaving
upon the Premises or by affixing to on entrance door to the Premises notice
terminating the Lease or possession. Upon the giving by the Landlord of a
notice in writing terminating this Lease or terminating Tenant s right to
possession of the Premises, Tenant shall remain liable for and shall pay on
demand by Landlord (A) the full amount of all Rent which accrues or which
would have accrued until the date on which this Lease would have expired had
termination not occurred, and any and all damages and expenses incurred by
Landlord in re-entering and repossessing the Premises in making good any
default of Tenant, in making any alterations, remodeling or new tenant finish
to the Premises, and any and all expenses which the Landlord may incur
during the occupancy of any new tenant, legs (B) the net proceeds of any
re-letting of the Premises which has occurred at the time of the aforesaid
demand by Landlord to Tenant. Landlord shall be 

4  

entitled to any excess with no credit to Tenant.
Landlord may, in its sole, discretion, make demand on Tenant as aforesaid on
any one or more occasions, and any suit brought by Landlord to enforce
collection of such difference for any subsequent month or months. Tenant s
liability shall survive the institution of summary proceedings and the issuance
of any warrant hereunder; and  

(iii)                                        Landlord shall
have the right of injunction and the right to invoke any other remedy allowed
at law or in equity, and mention in this Lease of any particular remedy shall
not preclude Landlord from any other remedy at law or in equity. 

(b)                                   In
the event that Tenant shall fail in the observance of performance of any of the
terms, conditions or provisions of this Lease, including but not limited to
payments or money to Landlord or any other person or entity, and Landlord
engages the services of an attorney to enforce such terms, conditions or
provisions, then and in such event, Landlord shall be entitled to recover from
Tenant the entire cost of collection or other enforcement, including reasonable
attorneys  fees, which if not otherwise demanded by Landlord shall be deemed
additional rent hereunder. In the event that Landlord shall fail in the
observance or performance of any of the terms, conditions or provision of this
Lease on its part to be performed, and Tenant engages the services of an
attorney to enforce such terms, conditions or provisions, then and in such
event, Tenant shall be entitled to recover from Landlord the entire cost of
enforcement, including reasonable attorneys  fees.  

6.                                                       There is herby added to the Lease a
new Paragraph 13, which reads in its entirety as follows: 

13.                                    Limitation
of Liability . Tenant agrees that it shall look solely to Landlord s estate
and interest in the Premises (or the proceeds thereof) for the satisfaction of
any right of Tenant for the collection of a judgment or other judicial process
requiring the payment of money by Landlord. No other properly or assets of
Landlord, its partners, its joint venturers or any officers, directors or
employees of any of the foregoing, shall be subject to any enforcement
procedures for the satisfaction of any of Tenant s rights and remedies under or
as to: (i) the Lease, (ii) the relationship of Landlord and Tenant
under this Lease or under law, (iii) Tenant s use and occupancy of the
Premises, or (iv) any other liability of Landlord to Tenant. This
provision shall not be deemed, construed or interpreted to be or constitute an
agreement, express or implied, between Landlord and Tenant that Landlord s
interest hereunder and in the Premises shall be subject to any equitable lien
or other similar lien or charge. From and after the due date upon which
Landlord shall convey the Premises to another party, Landlord shall be released
from its obligations hereunder, provided that such third party shall assume all
obligations of Landlord as set forth herein. 

7.                                                       There
is hereby added to the Lease a
new paragraph 14, which reads in its entirety as follows: 

14.                              Landlord
Agreement . Landlord hereby agrees to execute and deliver to Tenant,
contemporaneously with this Lease, that form of Landlord Agreement
attached hereto as Exhibit A.  

8.                                                       There
is hereby added to the Lease a
new paragraph 15, which reads in its entirety as follows: 

5  

15.         Miscellaneous. 

(a)                Tenant
shall maintain during the term     of this Lease the insurance
coverages referenced in paragraph 4(b)(3). 

(b)               The
terms and provisions of the Lease shall be binding upon and inure to the
benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, successors, assigns
and personal representatives provided, however, that no assignment by, from,
through or under Tenant in violation of any provisions hereof shall vest in
such assignee any right, title or interest whatsoever. 

(c)                Tenant
may not record this Lease or a Memorandum or other notice of this Lease
without Landlord s prior written consent, which consent shall not be
unreasonably conditioned, delayed or withhold. 

(d)               This
Lease may not be modified or amended except by a written instrument executed
by both Landlord and Tenant. This Lease shall be governed by and interpreted
pursuant to the laws of the State of Missouri. 

(e)                The
invalidity of one or more of the provisions of this Lease shall not cause the
invalidity of the remainder of this Lease. 

(f)                  In
the event that either party hereto shall bring legal action against the other
party, then the prevailing party shall be entitled to reimbursement from the
other party for all expenses thus incurred, including a reasonable attorney s
fee. 

(g)               The
captions or other headings of any sections of this Lease are inserted for
convenience only and shall not be considered in construing the provision hereof
if any question of intent should arise. 

(h)               All
rights and remedies of Landlord herein enumerated shall be cumulative and shall
not be construed to exclude any other remedies allowed at law or in equity,
whether or not specified herein. The failure of Landlord to insist in any one
or more cases upon the strict performance of any of the provisions of this
Lease or to exercise any option under this Lease shall not be construed as a
waiver or a relinquishment for the future of any such provision, and one or
more waivers of any breach of any provision shall not be construed as a waiver
of any subsequent breach of the same. The receipt and acceptance by Landlord of
any partial payment under this Lease shall not be deemed a waiver of such
breach or an accord and satisfaction.  

9.                                                       This
Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Landlord and Tenant
and their heirs, successors and assigns. The terms and provisions set forth in
this Amendment shall modify and supersede all inconsistent terms and provisions
set forth in the Lease and except as expressly modified and superseded by this
Amendment, the terms and provisions of the Lease are ratified and confirmed and
shall continue in full force and effect. Landlord and Tenant acknowledge and
agree that the Lease as amended hereby shall continue to be legal, valid,
binding and enforceable in accordance with its terms. This Amendment may be
executed in multiple and facsimile counterparts each of which shall be deemed
to be an original and together shall constitute one instrument. This Amendment
shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
Missouri. 

6  

LEASE AGREEMENT    

LEASE AGREEMENT, made and entered into as of the 12th
day of September, 1990, by and between Eugene M. Kornblum and Helen H. Kornblum
(hereinafter collectively referred to as  Landlord ), and St. Louis Music, Inc.,
a corporation existing under the laws of the State of Missouri (hereinafter
referred to as  Tenant ).  

1.                                Description
of Premises . 

Landlord, for and in consideration of the rents,
covenants and agreements hereinafter mentioned and hereby agreed to be paid,
kept and performed by Tenant, has leased and by these presents does lease unto
Tenant the parcel of land described in Exhibit 1 attached hereto and made
a part hereof, together with all appurtenances, buildings and improvements
located thereon, and situated in the County of St. Louis, State of Missouri
(hereinafter referred to as the  Premises ). This lease shall be subject to
that certain lease dated October 12, 1989 by and between Borman Congressional
Partners, a Missouri partnership, as Lessor, and Gerard Packaging Systems, Inc.,
as Lessee (the  Gerard Lease ). The Gerard Lease was assigned by Borman
Congressional Partners to Tenant upon Tenant s acquisition of the Premises
pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated May 4, 1990, and
further assigned by Tenant to Landlord upon Landlord s acquisition of the
Premises pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated September 10,
1990.  

2.                                Lease
Term . 

This lease (hereinafter referred to as the  Lease )
shall commence on the 1st day of November, 1990, and shall end on the 31st day
of October, 2005, unless sooner terminated pursuant to other provisions of this
Lease.  

3.                                Use
of Premises . 

Tenant shall be entitled to have and to hold the
Premises, subject to the conditions herein contained, for the purposes of
manufacturing, storage, warehousing, shipping and office center and for any
other use permitted by law. Tenant shall comply with, and shall maintain the
Premises in compliance with, all laws and all requirements of all governmental
authorities applicable to the Premises and to the use thereof, and shall
maintain the Premises in compliance with the requirements of the insurance
companies providing the insurance required by subparagraph (b) (3) of
Paragraph 4 below.  

4.                                Rental . 

(a)                As
fixed annual rent Tenant shall pay directly to Landlord, or to such other
person as Landlord designates, without previous demand therefor, the sum of One
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) per year, payable in equal monthly
installments of 

1  

Eight Thousand Three Hundred Thirty-Three and 33/100 Dollars
($8,333.33) in advance on the first day of each and every month during the term
of this Lease.  

(b)               As
additional rental during the term of this Lease, Tenant shall fully pay all
costs and charges in connection with or arising out of the following: 

(1)                             All
taxes, assessments and other governmental charges levied, during the term
hereof, on the Premises or any part thereof, including, but not limited
to, all general and special assessments, sewer taxes, water licenses, and any
other taxes, penalties, fines, interests and costs imposed upon or against the
Premises or against any of the personal property placed upon the Premises; 

(2)                             All
electricity, water, sewer use, gas, costs of operation of heating and air
conditioning and other utilities used on the Premises during the full term of
this Lease; 

(3)                             All
insurance premiums for the following described insurance required to be
maintained on the Premises by Tenant, in the name of Landlord or such other
person or entity as Landlord may designate: 

(A)                                       Insurance
for all risks of direct physical loss or damage to the Premises (subject to
standard policy exclusions) in an amount representing the full replacement
costs of the improvements located on the Premises, in insurance companies
approved by Landlord and authorized to do business in the state of Missouri;
and 

(B)                                         Insurance
for public liability coverage, protecting both Landlord and Tenant against any
and all claims for personal injury, loss of life or damage to property
sustained or claimed to have been sustained in, on or about the Premises or the
building, improvements and appurtenances located thereon or upon the adjoining
sidewalks, streets or alleyways. Such insurance shall be in such amounts and
contain such coverages as Landlord may reasonably require; and 

(C)                                         A     certificate or certificates of the
insurers that such insurance is in force and effect shall be deposited with
Landlord and shall contain an undertaking by the respective insurers that the
insurance policies shall not be canceled or modified adversely to the interests
of Landlord without at least thirty (30) days  prior notice to Landlord. Prior
to the expiration of any such policy, Tenant shall furnish Landlord with
evidence satisfactory to Landlord that the policy has been renewed or replaced
or is no longer required by this Lease. 

(4)                             All
other expenses and charges which shall be incurred or shall be required in
connection with the possession, 

2  

occupation, operation, alteration, maintenance, repair, protection,
preservation and use of the Premises, it being intended that this Lease shall be
a net net lease to Landlord and that, except as is otherwise specifically
provided for herein, Landlord shall have no cost or expense in connection with
the Premises subleased hereunder.  

5.                                Maintenance,
Repairs  ,   Alterations and
Restorations . 

(a)                Tenant
shall make all structural repairs and alterations to the foundation, exterior
walls and roof of the building and improvements located on the Premises as way
be required for the preservation, protection or restoration of the Premises,
unless any such repair or alteration is required as a result of damage caused
by the acts of Landlord, its employees or invitees. 

(b)               Tenant
shall, at its sole cost and expense, maintain and care for the building and
improvements located on the Premises, including landscaped areas, roadways and
the parking areas. Tenant shall, at its sole cost and expense, maintain and
care for the interiors of the building and improvements, including all
plumbing, heating, air conditioning, electrical and sewer systems, devices and
installations. Tenant agrees to keep the Premises free from any nuisance or
filth upon or adjacent thereto. Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (a) above,
all repairs and alterations deemed necessary to the exterior and interior of
the buildings and improvements located on the Premises shall be made or
constructed by Tenant with the consent of Landlord; and all repairs,
alterations, restorations, buildings and other improvements so made or
constructed shall remain as or become, as the case may be, a part of the
realty. All repairs, alterations, restorations, buildings and other
improvements made or constructed by Tenant to or on the Premises shall be
performed by Tenant in a good and workmanlike manner, shall be pursued by
Tenant with due diligence until the Premises will again be fit for occupancy by
Tenant  ,   or until said
construction shall be deemed completed by Landlord, and shall be performed in
conformity with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
Tenant shall not, under any circumstances  ,   allow
or permit any lien for labor and material to attach to the Premises. 

(c)                Tenant
shall pay for all costs and expenses incurred by Tenant arising out of Tenant s
obligations to make the repairs, alterations or restorations described in
subparagraphs (a) and (b) above. 

6.                                Indemnification . 

Tenant agrees that it will protect, indemnify and save
Landlord harmless from and against any penalty, damage or charge imposed for
any violation of any law or ordinance by Tenant, its agents, employees or
anyone acting on behalf of Tenant. Tenant further agrees that it will protect,
indemnify and save Landlord harmless from and against any and all claims,
suits, demands and  

3  

causes of action of any nature whatsoever, and any expense incident to
the defense thereof, for personal injury, loss of life or damage to property
sustained or alleged to have been sustained upon, about or adjacent to the
Premises.  

7.                                Damage
to Person or Property . 

Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant or any other
person or corporation, including Tenant s employees, for any damage to their
person or property caused by water, rain, snow, frost, fire, storm and
accidents, or by breakage, stoppage or leakage of water, gas, heating and
sewer pipes, air conditioning units or plumbing upon about or adjacent to the
Premises.  

8.                                Destruction
and Eminent Domain . 

(a)                Should
the entire area of the Premises, or such portion thereof as to interfere
materially with or curtail the operations of Tenant s business for a period in
excess of sixty (60) days, be destroyed by fire or other cause or be acquired
or taken by condemnation by any public or quasi-public authority or under the
power of eminent domain, and should all indebtednesses of Landlord to all lenders
which are secured by the Premises, be paid in full, this Lease may, at the
option of Tenant, be terminated, and of no further force and effect from and
after the date of such total destruction or the effective date of the taking by
such public or quasi-public authority. Tenant shall have no interest in nor
shall it share in any insurance proceeds or condemnation award received by
Landlord for the Premises. 

(b)               Should
only a portion of the Premises be so destroyed, acquired or condemned, and the
portion thus destroyed or taken be of such an amount as not to interfere
materially with or curtail the operations of Tenant s business for a period in
excess of sixty (60) days, or should all indebtednesses of Landlord to all
lenders which are secured by the Premises not be paid in full, then, and in
either of such events, this Lease shall continue in full force and effect as to
the portion not so destroyed or taken with a reduction in the fixed annual rent
proportionate to the area of the Premises so destroyed or taken for a period up
to, but not exceeding, six (6) months, provided that Landlord has in force
business interruption insurance payable to the lender of any indebtedness of
Landlord which is secured by the premises in an amount sufficient to pay the debt
service on such indebtedness during the period of rent reduction. Tenant shall
make all of the repairs and improvements deemed necessary in order to restore
the Premises to its original condition and shall perform, pursue and complete
said repairs and improvements in accordance with the terms and provisions of
subparagraph (b) of Paragraph 5 above. The costs and expenses incurred by
Tenant in making said repairs and improvements shall be paid for by Tenant and
shall be reimbursed by Landlord, but only to the extent paid for by the
insurance proceeds or condemnation award received by Landlord. Upon completion
of said repairs and improvements in accordance with and as determined by 

4  

the terms and provisions of subparagraph (b) of Paragraph 5 above,
the fixed annual rent, if reduced under the terms of this subparagraph (b),
shall be increased to the amount set forth in Paragraph 4.  

(c)                The
fact of whether such destruction, acquisition or condemnation has materially
interfered with or curtailed the operations of Tenant s business for a period
in excess of sixty (60) days shall be determined by the mutual decision of
Landlord and Tenant. If Landlord and Tenant cannot agree as to whether such
destruction, acquisition or condemnation has materially interfered with or
curtailed the operations of Tenant s business for a period in excess of sixty
(60) days, the fact shall be determined by arbitration in accordance with and
as provided by the Missouri Uniform Arbitration Act, Section 435.350  et
seq ., R.S.Mo. 1980. 

9.                                Default . 

(a)                In
the event that Tenant shall fail to pay any installment of rent within ten (10) days
from the date that the same shall become due hereunder or shall fail to pay any
Insurance premiums or taxes and assessments within ten (10) days after
written notice from Landlord that the same shall be due, or in the event that
Tenant shall fail in the observance or performance of any of the other terms,
conditions and provisions of this Lease for more than thirty (30) days after
written notice of such default shall have been mailed to Tenant (provided,
however, that if Tenant shall promptly proceed to correct such failure upon
notice thereof then said thirty (30) day period if insufficient, shall be extended
for such reasonable time as may be necessary), or in the event that Tenant
shall be adjudicated insolvent or bankrupt pursuant to the provisions of any
state or federal insolvency or bankruptcy act, or if Tenant shall make a
general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or if a receiver of the
property of Tenant shall be appointed and such appointment shall not be vacated
within 120 days after it is made, or if Tenant shall allow or permit any lien
for labor or material to attach to the Premises, then Landlord, besides other
rights or remedies Landlord may have, shall have the immediate right to
reenter the Premises and remove all persons and property from the Premises, all
without service of notice or resort to legal process and without being deemed guilty
of trespass or becoming liable for any loss or damage which may be
occasioned thereby. 

(b)               Should
Landlord elect to reenter the Premises, as herein provided, or should Landlord
take possession pursuant to Legal proceedings or pursuant to any notice
provided by law, Landlord may either terminate this Lease or may, from
time to time without terminating this Lease, make such alterations and repairs
as may be necessary in order to relet the Premises and relet the Premises
or any part thereof as the agent for and in the name of Tenant, for such
term or terms (which may be for a term extending beyond the term of this
Lease) and at such rental or rentals and upon such other terms and conditions
as Landlord in Landlord s sole 

5  

discretion may deem advisable. Upon each such reletting, all
rentals received by Landlord shall be applied first to the payment of any
indebtedness other than fixed annual rent due hereunder from Tenant to
Landlord; second, to the payment of any costs and expenses of such reletting,
including brokerage fees, attorneys  fees and costs of such alterations and
repairs; third, to the payment of such fixed annual rent under the terms of
this Lease, due and unpaid; and the residue, if any, shall be held by Landlord
and applied in payment of future required payments under the terms of this
Lease as the same may become due and payable. If such rentals received
from such reletting during any month be less than the required payments to be
paid during that month by Tenant under the terms of this Lease, Tenant shall
pay any such deficiency to Landlord.  

(c)                No
such reentry or taking possession of the Premises by Landlord shall be
construed as an election on Landlord s part to terminate this Lease unless
a written notice of such intention be given to Tenant or unless the termination
thereof by decreed by a court of competent jurisdiction. Notwithstanding any
such reletting without termination, Landlord may at any time thereafter
elect to terminate this Lease for such previous breach. Should Landlord at any
time terminate this Lease for any breach, then in addition to any other
remedies Landlord may have, Landlord may recover from Tenant all
damages Landlord may incur by reason of such breach, including the cost of
recovering the Premises and reasonable attorneys  fees, all of which amounts
shall be immediately due and payable from Tenant to Landlord. 

(d)               In
the event that Tenant shall fail in the observance or performance of any of the
terms, conditions or provisions of this Lease, including but not limited to
payments of money to Landlord or any other person or entity, and Landlord
engages the services of an attorney to enforce such terms, conditions or
provisions, then and in such event, Landlord shall be entitled to recover from
Tenant the entire cost of collection or other enforcement, including reasonable
attorneys  fees. In the event that Landlord shall fail in the observance or
performance of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of this Lease on its part to
be performed, and Tenant engages the services of an attorney to enforce such
terms, conditions or provisions, then and in such event, Tenant shall be
entitled to recover from Landlord the entire cost of enforcement, including
reasonable attorneys  fees. 

10.                          Assignment
and Subletting . 

Tenant shall not transfer, assign or sublease this
Lease or its interest hereunder, nor permit the same to be transferred or
assigned by operation of law without the consent of Landlord, which consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld by Landlord. No transfer or assignment by
Tenant of this Lease or its interest hereunder and no subletting by Tenant of
the Premises or any portion thereof shall operate to release Tenant from the  

6  

fulfillment on Tenant s part of its obligations under this Lease,
nor affect Landlord s right to exercise any of Landlord s rights or remedies
hereunder, without the consent of or notice to any assignee or sublessee.  

11.                          Waiver
and Severability . 

(a)                No
waiver of any forfeiture, by acceptance of rent or otherwise, shall waive any
subsequent cause of forfeiture or breach of any condition of this Lease; nor
shall any consent when applicable by Landlord to any assignment or subletting
of the Premises, or any part thereof, be held to waive or release any
assignee or sublessee from any of the foregoing conditions or covenants as
against him or them; but every such assignee and sublessee shall be expressly
subject thereto. 

(b)               If
any term, covenant or condition of this Lease, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable,
the remainder of this Lease, or the application of such term, covenant or
condition of this Lease, shall be valid and be enforced to the fullest extent
permitted by law. 

12.                          Notices;
Amendment . 

(a)                          Any
notices to be given by Landlord or Tenant to each other for any purpose
connected with this Lease or otherwise, shall be in writing and deemed to have
been properly given if served personally or if sent by United states registered
or certified mail, return receipt request, to the following address of Landlord
and Tenant, respectively, or to such other persons and addresses as Landlord
and Tenant may from time to time designate: 

(b)                         So
long as Century Life of America ( Century ) holds any security interest in or
deed of trust encumbering the Premises, this lease shall not be amended without
the prior written consent of Century. 

7  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed
this Lease as of the day and year first above written.  

THIS CONTRACT CONTAINS A BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION
WHICH MAY BE ENFORCED BY THE PARTIES.  

Landlord:  

/s/ Eugene M. Kornblum  

Eugene M. Kornblum  

/s/ Helen H. Kornblum  

Helen H. Kornblum  

Tenant:  

ST. LOUIS MUSIC, INC.  

By:  

/s/ Eugene M. Kornblum  

Title:  

President  

8  

EXHIBIT 1    

Lot 9 of West Plains Industrial Park Plat No. 3,
according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 137 Page 81 of the St.
Louis County Records.  

9  

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.29>
 3
 a06-2390_1ex10d29.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.29   

AMENDED AND RESTATED LEASE AGREEMENT    

THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED LEASE AGREEMENT  
(the  Lease ) is made and entered into as of this day of March, 2005, by and
between Eugene M. Komblum, Trustee of THE EUGENE M. KORNBLUM TRUST AGREEMENT
DATED JULY 18, 1997, as to an undivided 25% interest as tenants in common;
Helen H. Komblum, Trustee of THE HELEN H. KORNBLUM TRUST AGREEMENT DATED JULY
11, 1997, as to an undivided 25% interest as tenants in common; and Carole A,
Simon, Trustee of THE CAROLE A. SIMON REVOCABLE TRUST U/T/A dated November
27,1991, as to an undivided 50% interest as tenants in common (hereinafter
collectively referred to as  Landlord ), and ST. LOUIS MUSIC, INC., a
corporation existing under the laws of the State of Missouri (hereinafter
referred to as  Tenant ). 

RECITALS  :  

A.          Landlord and Tenant entered
into that certain Commercial Lease ( Original Lease ) dated as of December 20,
2001. 

B.           Landlord and Tenant now
wish to amend and restate the Original Lease as set forth herein. 

NOW, THEREFORE  , in consideration
of the foregoing Recitals, the mutual covenants and obligations contained
herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy
of which is hereby acknowledged and confessed, Landlord and Tenant agree as
follows: 

1.             Description of
Premises . 

Landlord, for and in consideration of the rents, covenants and
agreements hereinafter mentioned and hereby agreed to be paid, kept and
performed by Tenant, has leased and by these presents does lease unto Tenant a
certain brick warehouse and office building together with all land surrounding
the same, containing approximately 3.47 acres in total, known and numbers as
1400 Ferguson, in the City of Pagedale and State of Missouri (hereinafter
referred to as the  Premises ).  

2.             Lease Term . 

This lease (hereinafter referred to as the  Lease ) shall commence on
the            day of March,
2005, and shall end on the 29th day of February, 2008, unless sooner terminated
pursuant to other provisions of this Lease.  

3.             Use of Premises . 

Tenant shall be entitled to have and to hold the Premises, subject to
the conditions herein contained, for any use permitted by law. Landlord and
Tenant shall comply with, and shall maintain the Premises in compliance with,
all laws and all requirements of all governmental authorities applicable to the
Premises and to the use thereof, and shall maintain the Premises in  

compliance with
the requirements of the insurance companies providing the insurance required by
subparagraph (b)(3) of Paragraph 4 below.  

4.             Rental . 

(a)          As fixed annual rent Tenant
shall pay directly to Landlord, or to such other person as Landlord designates,
without previous demand therefore, the sum of One Hundred Thirty Thousand One
Hundred Six and 08/100 Dollars ($130,106.08) per year, payable in equal monthly
installments of Ten Thousand Eight Hundred Forty-two and 17/100 Dollars ($
10,842.17) in advance on the first day of each and every month during the term
of the Lease. 

(b)          As additional rental during
the term of this Lease, Tenant shall fully pay all costs and charges in
connection with or arising out of the following: 

(1)          All taxes, assessments and
other governmental charges levied, during the term hereof, on the Premises or
any part thereof, including, but not limited to, all general and special
assessments, sewer taxes, water licenses, and any other taxes, penalties,
fines, interests and costs imposed upon or against the Premises or against any
of the personal property placed upon the Premises; 

(2)          All electricity, water,
sewer use, gas, costs of operation of heating and air conditioning and other
utilities used on the Premises during the full term at this Lease; 

(3)          All insurance premiums for
the following described insurance which Tenant hereby agrees to maintain on the
Premises, in the name of Landlord or such other person or entity as Landlord
may designate: 

(A)         Insurance for all risks of
direct physical loss or damage to the Premises (subject to standard policy
exclusions) in an amount representing the full replacement costs of the
improvements located on the Premises, in insurance companies approved by
Landlord and authorized to do business in the State of Missouri; and 

(B)          Insurance for public
liability coverage, protecting both Landlord and Tenant against any and all
claims for personal injury, loss of life or damage to property sustained or
claimed to have been sustained in, on or about the Premises or the building,
improvements and appurtenances located thereon or upon the adjoining sidewalks,
streets or alleyways. Such insurance shall be in such amounts and contain such
coverages as Landlord may reasonably require; and 

(C)          A certificate or
certificates of the insurers that such insurance is in force and effect shall
be deposited with Landlord and shall contain an undertaking by the respective
insurers that the insurance policies shall not be canceled or modified
adversely to the interests of Landlord without at least thirty (30) days  prior
notice to Landlord. Prior to the expiration of any such policy, Tenant shall
furnish Landlord with evidence satisfactory to Landlord that the policy has
been renewed or replaced or is no longer required by this Lease. 

2  

(4)          All other expenses and
charges which shall be Incurred or shall be required in connection with the
possession, occupation, operation, alteration, maintenance, repair, protection,
preservation and use of the Premises (except as is otherwise specifically
provided for herein), it being intended that this Lease shall be a net net
lease to Landlord and that, except as is otherwise specifically provided for
herein, Landlord shall have no cost or expense in connection with the Premises
leased hereunder. 

5.             Maintenance,
Repairs, Alterations and Restorations . 

(a)          Tenant shall, at its sole
cost and expense, maintain and care for the building and improvements located
on the Premises, including landscaped areas, roadways and the parking areas,
except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (b) below. Tenant shall, at its
sole cost and expense, maintain and care for the interiors of the building and
improvements, including all plumbing, heating, air conditioning, electrical and
sewer systems, devices and installations. Tenant agrees to keep the Premises
free from any nuisance or filth upon or adjacent thereto, Except as otherwise
provided in subparagraph (b) below, all repairs and alterations deemed
necessary to the exterior and interior of the buildings and improvements
located on the Premises shall be made or constructed by Tenant with the consent
of Landlord; and all repairs, alterations, restorations, buildings and other
improvements so made or constructed shall remain as or become, as the case may
be, a part of the realty. 

(b)          Landlord shall conduct all
maintenance and repairs to the roof of the building (including the replacement
thereof, should Landlord in its reasonable discretion determine that any
material defect thereto could not otherwise be repaired), and all structural
maintenance and repairs to the foundation and the exterior walls of the
building, as may be required for the preservation, protection or restoration of
the Premises, unless any such maintenance and/or repair is required as a result
of damage caused by the negligence or willful acts and/or omissions of Tenant,
its employees or invitees, on or after the date of this Lease. Landlord shall
also (i) conduct all maintenance and repairs to the Premises that are required
as a result of damage caused prior to the date of this Lease and (ii) perform
any such alterations to the Premises as are required by law, except and to the
extent such alterations are so required due to improvements or intended
improvements to the Premises by Tenant. 

(c)          All repairs, alterations,
restorations, buildings and other improvements made or constructed to or on the
Premises shall be performed by the responsible party in a good and workmanlike
manner, shall be pursued by the responsible party with due diligence until the
Premises will again be fit for occupancy of Tenant, or until said construction
shall be reasonably deemed completed by Landlord, and shall be performed in
conformity with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. Tenant
shall not, under any circumstances, allow or permit any lien for labor end
material to attach to the Premises. 

(d)          Subject to paragraph 6(b)
below, Tenant shall pay for all costs and expenses incurred by Tenant arising
out of Tenant s obligations to make the repairs or maintenance described in
subparagraph (a) above. Landlord shall also pay for all costs and expenses
incurred by Landlord arising out of Landlord s obligations to make the repairs
or maintenance described in subparagraph (b) above. 

3  

6.             Indemnification . 

(a)          Tenant agrees that it will
protect, indemnify and save Landlord harmless from and against any penalty,
damage or charge imposed for any violation of any law or ordinance by Tenant,
its agents, employees or anyone acting on behalf of Tenant. Tenant further agrees
that it will protect, indemnify and save Landlord harmless from and against any
and all claims, suits, demands, causes of action, costs and liabilities arising
from Tenant s use of the Premises on or after the date of this Lease, or from
any act permitted, or any omission to act, in or about the Premises by Tenant
or its employees or invitees on or after the date of this Lease, or from any
breach or default by Tenant of this Lease, except to the extent caused by
Landlord s negligence or willful misconduct. 

(b)          Landlord agrees that it
will protect, indemnify and save Tenant harmless from and against any and all
claims, suits, demands, causes of action, costs and liabilities arising from
any breach or default by Landlord of this Lease, except to the extent caused by
Tenant s negligence or willful misconduct. Landlord further agrees that it will
protect, indemnify and save Tenant harmless from and against any and all
claims, suits, demands, causes of action, costs and liabilities associated
with, related to, or arising out of (i) the maintenance and repair of the roof,
including without limitation any removal, disposal or other remediation
required by law with respect to any asbestos containing materials ( ACMs ) or
presumed ACMs that may be present in the roof; (ii) any underground storage
tanks that may be or have been present on the Premises; and (iii) without
limitation to item (i) above, the presence of any ACMs or presumed aCMs on the
Premises; provided, however that Landlord shall have no such indemnification
obligation with respect to any remediation, maintenance, encapsulation,
removal, disposal, labeling or other actions with respect to any ACMs, presumed
ACMs or underground storage tanks except to the extent such action is required
under applicable laws. 

7.             Damage
to Person or Property . 

Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant or any other person or
corporation, including Tenant s employees, for any damage to their person or
property caused by water, rain, snow, float, fire, storm and accidents, or by
breakage, stoppage or leakage of water, gas, heating and sewer pipes, air
conditioning units or plumbing upon about or adjacent to the Promises, except
and to the extent such damage is caused by Landlord s failure to perform its
obligations under this Lease.  

8.             Destruction
and Eminent Domain . 

(a)          Should the entire area of
the Premises, or such portion thereof as to interfere materially with or
curtail the operations of Tenant s business for a period in excess of sixty
(60) days, be destroyed by fire or other cause or be acquired or taken by
condemnation by any public or quasi-public authority or under the power of
eminent domain, this Lease may at the option of Tenant, be terminated and of no
further force and effect from and after the date of such total destruction or
the effective date of the taking by such public or quasi-public authority. 

4  

Tenant shall have
no interest in nor shall it share in any insurance proceeds or condemnation
award received by Landlord for the Premises.  

(b)          Should only a     portion of the Premises be so destroyed,
acquired or condemned, and the portion thus destroyed or taken be of such an
amount as not to interfere materially with or curtail the operations of Tenant s
business for a period in excess of sixty (60) days, then this Lease shall
continue in full force and effect as to the portion not so destroyed or taken
with a reduction in the fixed annual rent proportionate to the area of the
Premises so destroyed or taken for a period up to, but not exceeding, six (6)
months, provided that Landlord has in force business interruption insurance
payable to     the lender of any
indebtedness of Landlord which is secured by the premises in an amount
sufficient to pay the debt service on such indebtedness during the period of
rent reduction. The parties shall make all of the repairs and improvements
deemed necessary in order to restore the Premises to its original condition and
shall perform, pursue and complete said repairs and improvements in accordance
with the terms and provisions of Paragraph 5 above. The costs and expenses
incurred by Tenant in making said repairs and improvements shall be paid for by
Tenant and shall be reimbursed by Landlord, but only to the extent paid for by
the insurance proceeds or condemnation award received by Landlord. Upon
completion of said repairs and improvements in accordance with and as
determined by the terms and provisions of Paragraph 5 above, the fixed annual
rent, if reduced under the terms of this subparagraph (b), shall be increased
to the amount set forth in Paragraph 4. 

(c)          The fact of whether such
destruction, acquisition or condemnation has materially interfered with or
curtailed the operations of Tenant s business for a period in excess of sixty (60)
days shall be determined by the mutual decision of Landlord and Tenant. If
Landlord and Tenant cannot agree as to whether such destruction, acquisition or
condemnation has materially interfered with or curtailed the operations of
Tenant s business for a period in excess of sixty (60) days, the fact shall be
determined by arbitration in accordance with and as provided by the Missouri
Uniform Arbitration Act, Section 435.350  et seq.  R. S. Mo. 1994. 

9.             Default  

(a)          In the event that Tenant
shall fail to pay any installment of rent within ten (10) days from the date
that the same shall become due hereunder or shall fail to pay any insurance
premiums or taxes and assessments within ten (10) days after     written notice from Landlord that the
same shall be due, or in the event that Tenant shall fail in the observance of
performance of any of the other terms, conditions and provisions of this Lease
for more than thirty (30) days after written notice of such default shall have
been mailed to Tenant (provided, however, that if Tenant stall promptly proceed
to correct such failure upon notice thereof then said thirty (30) day period if
insufficient, shall be extended for such reasonable time as     may be necessary), or in the event that
Tenant shall be adjudicated insolvent or bankrupt pursuant to the provisions of
any state or federal insolvency or bankruptcy act, or if Tenant shall make a     general assignment for the benefit of
creditors, or if a receiver of the property of Tenant shall be appointed and
such appointment shall not be vacated within 120 days after it is made, or if
Tenant shall allow or permit any lien for labor or material to attach to the
Premises, then Landlord, besides other rights or remedies Landlord may have,
shall have the immediate right to 

5  

pursue any one or
more of the following remedies without notice or demand whatsoever, which
remedies are cumulative and not alternative:  

(i)           LandLord shall have the
right to remedy or attempt to remedy any default of Tenant, and in so doing to
make any payments due or alleged to be due by Tenant to third parties and to
enter upon the Premises to do any work or other things therein, and in such
event all reasonable expenses of Landlord in remedying or attempting to remedy
such default shall be payable by Tenant to Landlord on demand. All sums so paid
by Landlord and all expenses in connection therewith, shall bear interest
thereon at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) per annum or the highest legal
rate if less and if not otherwise demanded by Landlord shall be deemed
additional rent; 

(ii)          Landlord shall have the
right to terminate this Lease or terminate Tenant s right to possession of the
Premises without terminating this Lease forthwith by leaving upon the Premises
or by affixing to an entrance door to the Premises notice terminating the Lease
or. Upon the giving by Landlord of a notice in writing terminating this Lease
or terminating Tenant s right to possession of the Premises, Tenant shall
remain liable for and shall pay on demand by Landlord (A) the full amount of
all Rent which accrues or which would have accrued until the date on which this
Lease would have expired had termination not occurred, and any and all damages
and expenses incurred by Landlord in re-entering and repossessing the Premises
in making good any default of the Tenant, in making any alterations, remodeling
or new tenant finish to the Premises, and any and all expenses which Landlord
may incur during the occupancy of any new tenant, less (B) the net proceeds of
any re-letting of the Premises which has occurred at the time of the aforesaid
demand by Landlord to Tenant. Landlord shall be entitled to any excess with no
credit to Tenant Landlord may, in its sole discretion, make demand on Tenant as
aforesaid on any one or more occasions, and any suit brought by Landlord to
enforce collection of such difference for any subsequent month or months.
Tenant s liability shall survive the institution of summary proceedings and the
issuance of any warrant hereunder; and 

(iii)         Landlord shall have the
right of injunction and the right to invoke any other remedy allowed at law or
in equity, and mention in this Lease of any particular remedy shall not
preclude Landlord from any other remedy at law or in equity. 

(b)          In fee event that Tenant
shall fail in the observance of performance of any of the terms, conditions or
provisions of this Lease, including but not limited to payments or money to
Landlord or any other person or entity, and Landlord engages the services of an
attorney to enforce such terms, conditions or provisions, then and in such
event, Landlord shall be entitled to recover from Tenant the entire cost of
collection or other enforcement, including reasonable attorneys  fees, which if
not otherwise demanded by Landlord shall be deemed additional rent hereunder.
In the event that Landlord shall fail in the observance or performance of any
of the terms, conditions or provisions of this Leaser on its part to be
performed, and Tenant engages the services of an attorney to enforce such
terms, conditions or provisions, then and in such event, Tenant shall be
entitled to recover from Landlord the entire cost of enforcement, including
reasonable attorneys  fees. 

6  

10.           Assignment and
Subletting . 

Tenant shall not transfer, assign or sublease this Lease or its
Interest hereunder, nor permit the same to be transferred or assigned by
operation of law without the consent of Landlord, which consent shall not be
unreasonably conditioned, delayed of withheld by Landlord. No transfer or
assignment by Tenant of this Lease or its interest hereunder and no subletting
by Tenant of the Premises of any portion thereof shall operate to release
Tenant from the fulfillment on Tenant s part of its obligations under this
Lease, nor affect Landlord s right to exercise any of Landlord s rights or
remedies hereunder, without the consent of or notice to any assignee or
sublessee.  

11.           Waiver and Severability . 

(a)          No waiver of any forfeiture,
by acceptance of rent or otherwise, shall waive any subsequent cause of
forfeiture or breach of any condition of this Lease; nor shall any consent when
applicable by Landlord to any assignment or subletting of the Premises, or any
part thereof, be held to waive or release any assignee or sublessee from any of
the foregoing conditions or covenants as against him or them; but every such
assignee and sublessee shall be expressly subject thereto, 

(b)          If any term, covenant or
condition of this Lease, or the application thereof to any parson or
circumstances shall, to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder
of this Lease, or the application of such term, covenant or condition of this
Lease, shall be valid and be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law. 

12.           Limitation of Liability .
Tenant agrees that it shall look solely to Landlord s estate and interest in
the Premises (or the proceeds thereof) for the satisfaction of any right of
Tenant for the collection of a judgment or other judicial process requiring the
payment of money by Landlord. No other property or assets of Landlord, its
partners, its joint venturers or any officers, directors or employees of any of
the foregoing, shall be subject to any enforcement procedures for the satisfaction
of any of Tenant s rights and remedies under or as to; (i) the Lease, (ii) the
relationship of Landlord and Tenant under this Lease or under law, (iii) Tenant s
use and occupancy of the Premises, or (iv) any other liability of Landlord to
Tenant. This provision shall not be deemed, construed or interpreted to be or
constitute an agreement, express or implied, between Landlord and Tenant that
Landlord s interest hereunder and in the Premises shall be subject to any
equitable lien or other similar lien or charge. From and after the due date
upon which Landlord shall convey the Premises to another party, Landlord shall
be released from its obligations hereunder, provided that such third party
shall assume all obligations of Landlord as set forth herein, 

13.           Notices . 

(a)          Any notices to be given by
Landlord or Tenant to each other for any purpose connected with this Lease or
otherwise, shall be in writing and deemed to have been properly given if served
personally or if sent by United States registered or certified mail, return
receipt request, to the Mowing address of Landlord and Tenant, respectively, or
to such other persons and addresses as Landlord and Tenant may from time to
time designate: 

7  

14.           Landlord Agreement .
Landlord hereby agrees to execute and deliver to Tenant, contemporaneously with
this Lease, that form of Landlord Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A. 

15.           Miscellaneous . 

(a)          The terms and provisions of
the Lease shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto
and their respective heirs, successors, assigns and personal representatives
provided, however, that no assignment by, from, through or under Tenant in
violation of any provisions hereof shall vest in such assignee any right, title
or interest whatsoever. 

(b)          Tenant may not record this
Lease or a Memorandum or other notice of this Lease without Landlord s prior
written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably conditioned, delayed or
withheld. 

(c)          This Lease may not be
modified or amended except by a written instrument executed by both Landlord
and Tenant. This Lease shall be governed by and interpreted pursuant to the
laws of the State of Missouri. 

(d)          The invalidity of one or
more of the provisions of this Lease shall not cause the invalidity of the
remainder of this Lease. 

(e)          In the event that either
party hereto shall bring legal action against the other party, then the
prevailing party shall be entitled to reimbursement from the other party for
all expenses thus incurred, including a reasonable attorney s fee. 

(f)           The captions or other
headings of any sections of this Lease are inserted for convenience only and
shall not be considered in construing the provision hereof if any question of
intent should arise. 

(g)          All rights and remedies of
Landlord herein enumerated shall be cumulative and shall not be construed to
exclude any other remedies allowed at law or in equity, whether or not
specified herein. The failure of Landlord to insist in any one or more cases
upon the strict performance of any of the provisions of this Lease or to
exercise any option under this Lease shall not be construed as a waiver or a
relinquishment for the future of any such provision, and one or more waivers of
any breach of any provision shall not be construed as a waiver of any 

8  

subsequent breach
of the same. The receipt and acceptance by Landlord of any partial payment
under this Lease shall not be deemed a waiver of such breach or an accord and
satisfaction.  

[The remainder of this
page is intentionally blank. The next page is the signature page.]  

9  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Lease as     of the day and year first above written.  

THIS CONTRACT CONTAINS A BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION WHICH MAY BE
ENFORCED BY THE PARTIES.  

ST. LOUIS MUSIC, INC.   

THE EUGENE M. KORNBLUM TRUST   

AGREEMENT dated July 18, 1997   

By:  

Name:  

Tile:  

EUGENE
  M. KORNBLUM, Trustee  

THE HELEN H. KORNBLUM TRUST    

AGREEMENT dated July 11, 1997   

HELEN
  H. KORNBLUM, Trustee  

THE CAROLE A. SIMON REVOCABLE    

TRUST U/T/A dated November 27, 1991   

CAROLE     A. SIMON, Trustee  

10  

Printed and for Sale to the St. Louis Printing  
  Legal Firms Co., St. Louis, Mn.  

FORM                   REVISED            

A DIVISION OF [LOGO]  

CLASS A  

COMMERCIAL LEASE   

This Lease, made and entered into, this 20 th 
  day of DECEMBER 2001, by and between Eugene M. Kormblum, trustee of THE
  EUGENE M. KORNBLUM TRUST AGREEMENT DATED JULY 18, 1997, as to an undivided
  25% interest as tenants in common; Helen M. Kornblum, Trustee of THE HELEN H.
  KORMBLUM TRUST AGREEMENT DATED JULY 11, 1997, as to an undivided 25% interest
  as tenants in common; and Carole A. Simon and Robert S. Simon, Trustees of
  THE CAROLE A. SIMON REVOCABLE TRUST U/T/A dated November 27, 1991, as to an
  undivided 50% interest as tenants in common.  

Parties   

Hereinafter
  called Lessor, and ST. LOUIS MUSIC, INC., hereinafter called Lessee,  
    WITNESSETH, That the
  said Lessor for and in consideration of the rents, covenants and agreements
  hereinafter mentioned and herby agreed to be paid, kept and performed by said
  Lessee, or Lessees, successors and assigns has leased and by these presents
  do lease to said Lessee the following described premises, situated in the
  county of St. Louis, state of Missouri, to-wit:  

Premises   

A certain brick warehouse and office building together with all land
  surrounding the same, containing approximately 3.47 acres in total, known and
  number as 1400 Ferguson, in the City of Pagedale and State of Missouri.  

Use of 
  premises   

To have and to hold the same, subject to the conditions herein
  contained, and for no other purpose or business than that of office,
  warehouse, and selling of any and all types of musical instruments and any
  and all types of kindred products.  

Term and 
  Rental   

For and during the terms of three (3) years commencing on the 1st day
  of January 2002 and ending on the 31st day of December 2004   
    at the yearly rental of One Hundred Five Thousand One Hundred Six and
  00/100 Dollars($103,106.00), payable in advance in equal monthly installments
  of Eight Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty-Eight and 83/100 Dollars (88,758.83)   

Assignment 
  or 
  Sub-letting   

On the first day of
  each and every month during the said term.  
    This lease is not assignable, nor shall said premises or any part
  thereof be sublet used or permitted to be used for any purposes other than
  above set forth without the lease or any part thereof sublet without the
  written consent of the Lessor, or if the Lessee shall become the subject of a
  court proceeding in bankruptcy or liquidating receivership or shall make an
  assignment for the benefit of creditors, this lease may by such fact or
  unauthorized act be cancelled at the option of the Lessor. Any assignment of
  this lease or subletting or said premises or any part thereof with the
  written consent of the Lessor shall not operate to release the lessee from
  the fulfillment on Leasee s part of the covenants and agreements herein
  contained to be by said Lessee performed, nor authorize any subsequent
  assignment or subletting without the written consent of the Lessor.  

Repairs and Alternations   

All repairs and alternations deemed necessary by Lessee shall be made
  by said Lessee at Leasee s cost and expense with the consent of Lessor; and
  all repairs and alterations so made shall remain as a part of the realty all
  plate and other class now in said demised premises is at the risk of said
  Lessee, and if broken, is to be replaced by and at the expense of said
  Lessee.  

The Lessor reserves the right to prescribe the form, size, character
  and location of any and all awnings affixed to and all signs which may be
  placed or painted upon any part of the demised premises, and the             
  agrees not to place any awning or sign on any part of the demised premises
  without the written consent of the     Lessor,
  or to bore or cut into any column, beam or any part of the demised premises
  without the written consent of Lessor. The Lessee and all holding under said
  Lessee agrees to use reasonable diligence in the care and protection of said
  premises during the term of this lease, to keep the water pipes, sewer
  drains, heating apparatus, elevator machinery and sprinkler system in good
  order and repair and to surrender said premises at the termination of this
  lease in substantially the same and in as good condition as received,
  ordinary wear and tear excepted.  

The Lessee shall pay according to the rules and regulations of the
  water department for all water used in the demised premises. The Lessee will
  erect fire escapes on said premises at said Lessee s own cost, according to
  law, should the proper authorities demand same.  

The Lessee agrees to keep said premises in good order and repair and
  free from any              
  or             
  upon or adjacent thereto, and not to use or permit the use of the same or any
  part thereof for any purpose forbidden by law or ordinance now in force or
  hereafter enacted in respect to the use or occupancy of said premises. The
  Lessor or legal representatives may, at all reasonable hours, enter upon said
  premises for the purpose of examining the condition thereof and making such
  repairs as Lessor may see fit to make.  

If the cost of Insurance to said Lessor on said premises shall be
  increased by reason of the occupancy and use of said demised premises by said
  Lessee or any other person under said Lessee, all such increase over the
  existing rate shall be paid by said Lessee to said Lessor on demand. The
  Leases agrees to pay double rent for each day the Lessee, or any one holding
  under the Lessee, shall retain the demised premises after the termination of
  this lease, whether by limitation or forfeiture.  

Damage to  
  Tenants   
  Property   

Lessor shall not be liable to said Lessee or any other person or
  corporation, including employees, for any damage to their person or property
  caused by water, rain, snow, frost, fire, storm and accidents, or by
  breakage, stoppage or leakage of water  ,  
  gas, heating and sewer pipes or plumbing, upon, about or adjacent to said
  premises.  

The destruction of said building or premises by fire, or the
  elements, or
                
  material injury thereto as to render said premises unquestionably untenantable
  for 45 days, shall at the option of said Lessor or Lessee produce and work a
  termination of this lease.  

If the Lessor and Lessee cannot agree as to whether said building or
  premises are unquestionably untenantable for 45 days, the fact shall be
  determined by arbitration; the Lessor and the Lessee shall each choose an
  arbitrator within five days after either has notified the other in writing of
  such damage, the two so chosen, before entering on the discharge of their
  duties, shall elect a third, and the decision of any two of such arbitrators
  shall be conclusive and binding upon both parties hereto.  

If it is determined by arbitration, or agreement between the Lessor
  and the Lessee, that said building is not unquestionably untenantable for 45
  days, then said Lessor must restore said building at Lessor s own expense,
  with all reasonable speed and promptness, and in such case a just and
  proportionate part of said rental shall be abated until said premises haw
  been restored.  

Failure on the part of the Lessee     to
  pay any installment of rent or increase in insurance rate promptly as above
  set out, as and when the same becomes due and payable, or failure of the
  Lessee promptly and faithfully to keep and perform each and every covenant,
  agreement and atipulation herein on the part of the Lessee to be kept and
  performed, shall at the option of the Lessor cause the forfeiture of this
  lease.  

Possession of the within demised premises and all additions and
  permanent improvements     thereof
  shall be delivered to Lessor upon ten days  written notice that Lessor has
  exercised said option, and thereupon Lessor shall be entitled to and may take
  immediate possession of the demised premises, any other notice or demand
  being hereby waived.  

Any and all notices to be served by the Lessor upon the Lessee for
  any breach of covenant of this lease, or otherwise, shall be served upon the
  Lessee in person, or loft with anyone in charge of the premises, or posted
  upon some conspicuous part of said premises.  

Re-Entry   

Said Lessee will quit and deliver up the possession of said premises
  to the Lessor     or Lessor s
  heirs, successors, agents or assigns, when this lease terminates by
  limitation or forfeiture, with all window glass replaced, if broken, and with
  all keys, locks, bolts, plumbing fixtures, elevator, sprinkler, boiler and
  heating appliances in as good     order
  and condition as the same are now, or may hereaftar be made by repair in
  compliance with all the covenants of this lease, save only the wear thereof
  from reasonable and careful use.  

But it is hereby understood, and Lessee hereby covenants with the
  Lessor, that such forfeiture, annullment or voidance shall not relieve the
  Lessee from the obligation of the Lessee to make the monthly payments of rent
  hereinbefore reserved, at the times and in the manner aforesaid; and in case
  of any such default of the Lessee, the Lessor may re-let the said premises an
  the agent for and in the name of the Lessee, at any rental readily
  obtainable, applying the proceeds and avails thereof, first, to the payment
  of such expense as the Lessor may be put to in re-entering, and then to the
  payment of said rent as the same may from time to time become due, and toward
  the fulfillment of the other covenants and agreements of the Lessee herein
  contained, and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the Lessee; and the
  Lessee hereby covenants and agrees that if the Lessor shall recover or take
  possession of said premises as aforesaid, and be unable to re-let and rent
  the same so as to realise a sum equal to the rent hereby reserved, the Lessee
  shall and will pay to the Lessor any and all loss of difference of rent for
  the residue of the  term.
  The Lessee hereby gives to the Lessor the right to place and maintain its
  usual  for rent  signs upon the demised premises, in the place that the same
  are usually displayed on property similar to that herein demised, for the
  last thirty days of this lease. 

No representation is
  made that permises are lead free or that these premises are legally
  habitable.   

ADDITIONAL TERMS AND PROVISIONS    

1.        Lessee
  shall have the option to renew the Lease after the expiration of the original
  term thereof for an additional term of two (2) years under the same terms and
  conditions, excepting that the annual rental for the premises during such
  renewal period shall be One Hundred Ten Thousand Three Hundred Sixty-One and
  00/100 Dollars ($110,361.00), payable in equal monthly installments. Such
  renewal shall be exercised by notice in writing sent to Lessor at least sixty
  (60) days prior to the expiration of the original term. 

2.        In
  addition to the rentals herein provided, Lessee shall pay all real estate
  taxes, whether general or special, assessed on the premises during the term
  of the lease, as well as the cost of all utility, water and sewer charges
  incurred with the use and occupancy of the building. Lessee shall pay for
  fire and extended coverage liability insurance on the building, naming the
  owners as an additional insured as their interest may appear. 

No 
  Constructive 
  Waiver  

No waiver of any
  forfeiture, by acceptance of rent or otherwise, shall waive any subsequent
  cause of forfeiture, or breach of any condition of this lease; nor shall any
  consent by the Lessor to any assignment or subletting of said premises, or
  any part thereof, be held to waive or release any assignee or sub-lessee from
  any of the foregoing conditions or covenants as against him or them; but
  every such assignee and sub-lessee shall be expressly subject thereto.  

Whenever the
  word  Lessor  is used herein it shall be construed to include the heirs,
  executors, administrators, successors, assigns or legal representatives of
  the Lessor; and the word  Lessee  shall include the heirs, executors,
  administrators, successors, assigns or legal representatives of the Lessee
  and the words Lessor and Lessee shall include single and plural, individual
  or corporation, subject always to the restrictions herein contained, as to
  subletting or assignment of this lease.  

IN
  WITNESS WHEREOF, the said parties aforesaid have duly executed the foregoing
  instrument or caused the same to be executed the day and year first above
  written.  

Lessee:  

ST. LOUIS MUSIC, INC.,   

Lessor:  

THE EUGENE M. KORNBLUM
  TRUST   

A Missouri corporation  

AGREEMENT DATED JULY
  18, 1997  

By:  

/s/ Eugene M. Kornblum  

By:  

/s/ Eugene M. Kornblum  

Eugene M. Kornblum,
  Trustee  

Its President  

THE HELEN H. KORNBLUM
  TRUST   

ATTEST:  

AGREEMENT DATED JULY
  11, 1997  

By:  

/s/ Helen H. Kornblum
  Trustee  

By:  

/s/ Donald J. Collins  

Helen H. Kornblum,
  Trustee  

Its Secretary  

THE CAROLE A. SIMON
  REVOCABLE TRUST U/T/A   

DATED NOVEMBER 27, 1991  

By:  

/s/ Robert S. Simon  

Robert S. Simon,
  Trustee  

By:  

/s/ Carole A. Simon,  

Carole A. Simon, Trustee  

before me personally
appeared Eugene M. Kornblum, Trustee of THE EUGENE M. KORNBLUM TRUST AGREEMENT
DATED JULY 18, 1997, and Helen H. Kornblum, Trustee of THE HELEN H. KORNBLUM
TRUST AGREEMENT DATED JULY 11, 1997, to me known to be the persons described in
and who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that they, executed
the same as their free act and deed, in their capacity as Trustees of their
respective Trusts.  

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my
official seal in
the                     
and State aforesaid, the day and year first above written.  

/s/ Andrew Clones  

Notary
  Public.  

My terms expires  

ANDREW CLONES 
 NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF
MISSOURI 
ST. LOUIS COUNTY 
MY COMMISSION EXP. MAR 23, 2008 

before me appeared Eugene
M. Kornblum to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn, did say that
he is the President of ST. LOUIS MUSIC, INC., a Corporation of the State of
Missouri, and that the seal affixed to the foregoing instrument is the
corporate seal of said corporation, and that said instrument was signed and
sealed in behalf of said corporation, by authority of its Board of Directors;
and said President acknowledged sold instrument to be the free act and deed of
said corporation.  

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereinto set my hand and affixed my
official seal in
the                     
and State aforesaid, the day and year first above written.  

/s/ Andrew Clones  

Notary
  Public.  

My terms expires  

ANDREW CLONES 
NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF MISSOURI 
ST. LOUIS COUNTY 
MY COMMISSION EXP. MAR 23,
2008 

before me personally
appeared Carol A. Simon and Robert S. Simon, Trustees of THE CAROLE A. SIMON
REVOCABLE TRUST U/T/A dated November 27, 1991 to me known to be the persons
described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that
they executed the same as their free act and deed, in their capacity as
Trustees of the Trust.  

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereinto set my hand and affixed my
official seal in
the                     
and State aforesaid, the day and year first above written.  

/s/ Andrew Clones  

Notary
  Public.  

My terms expires  

ANDREW CLONES 
NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF MISSOURI 
ST. LOUIS COUNTY 
MY COMMISSION EXP. MAR 23, 2008  

LEASE   

TO   

Premises
  No.   

Begins   

Ends   

$  

per month  

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.30>
 4
 a06-2390_1ex10d30.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.30   

SEVENTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE    

THIS SEVENTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE ( Seventh Amendment )
has been executed as of the 9 th  day of February, 2006, by
CORNERSTONE INDUSTRIAL FUND I, L.L.C, a Missouri limited liability company ( Landlord )
and ST. LOUIS MUSIC, INC., and Loud Technologies Inc. (hereinafter
collectively referred to as  Tenant ).  

R  
 E    C    I    T    A    L    S :  

A.                         THE
REALTY ASSOCIATES FUND III, L.P. ( Prior Landlord ) and Tenant have heretofore
executed a Sixth Amendment to Lease dated November 8, 2000. Missouri State
Employees  Retirement System (  First Prior Landlord  ) and Tenant have
heretofore executed that certain Lease Agreement (the   Original Lease  ),
dated as of May 23, 1988, as amended by Addendum to Lease dated March 1,
1989, Second Addendum to Lease dated December 3, 1991, Third Amendment to
Lease dated March 3, 1994, Fourth Amendment to Lease dated May 9,
1995, and Fifth Amendment to Lease dated as of June 26, 1998 (the Original
Lease, as so amended by all Amendments First through Sixth Amendment, is
hereinafter collectively called the   Lease  ). 

B.                           Landlord
has acquired the Building and succeeded to all of the Prior Landlord and First
Prior Landlord s Interest under the Lease, as amended. Tenant hereby recognizes
CORNERSTONE INDUSTRIAL FUND I, L.L.C., as a Missouri limited liability company,
as the Landlord, under the Lease, as amended, and pursuant to this Seventh
Amendment. 

C.                           Landlord
and Tenant desire to execute this Seventh Amendment in order to evidence their
agreement to (i) extend the Lease Term and (ii) make certain other
amendments to the Lease, all as more particularly set forth in this Seventh
Amendment. 

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, Landlord and Tenant agree as follows:  

1  

CERTAIN AMENDMENTS    

1.                              Lease Term . The Lease Term shall be extended for thirty-nine (39) months,
commencing April 1, 2006 and ending June 30, 2009, subject to
adjustment or earlier termination as set forth in the Lease, as amended herein. 

2.                              Reduced Premises . Effective as of July 1, 2006, and
subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Seventh Amendment, the
Lease shall be amended to reflect that the Premises shall be reduced from the
current square footage of 78,531 rentable square feet to approximately 46,000
rentable square feet. The reduced premises of approximately 46,000 rentable
square feet will hereinafter be known as the   Reduced Premises  .
Landlord and Tenant will execute a Confirmation Agreement as to the exact
location and exact square footage (as verified by an architect) of the Reduced
Premises, which shall be outlined on a cross-hatched floor plan, which will
hereinafter be attached hereto as Exhibit A, which will consist of the
Reduced Premises in that certain building known as Mid County 6, located at
8480-8514 Mid County Industrial Drive, St. Louis, Missouri, and as more
particularly described in the Lease (the  Building ). 

3.                              Base Rent . As of April 1, 2006, the Base Rent during the Seventh Amendment
Term shall be as follows: 

The Base Rent shall be due and payable in
equal monthly installments, with each such monthly installment due and payable
on the first day of each calendar month, in advance, without demand and without
setoff or deduction whatsoever. Prior to April 1, 2006, Tenant shall
continue to pay Base Rent for the Premises as set forth in the Sixth Amendment
to Lease. The Square Footage, Monthly Base Rent per Square Foot, and Annual
Base Rent per Square Foot, shall be adjusted from the approximately 46,000
square foot amounts as stated hereinabove, to the actual square footage (as
measured by the Architect), and said adjustment shall be included in the
Confirmation Agreement.  

4.                               AS IS  . Tenant accepts the Premises in its  as is  condition and acknowledges
that Landlord has no obligation to pay or reimburse Tenant for, or otherwise
make, any improvements, alterations or additions to the Premises.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord shall do the work and/or pay the
following cost in reference to Tenant s Reduced Premises, being to-wit: 

2  

A.                         Make
the demising wall between Tenant s current space and the Reduced Premises
compliant with St. Louis County Code; and 

B.                           Install
separate meters for electrical service to the Reduced Premises and the vacated
premises of Tenant. 

5.                              Options .
Any renewal option, right of first offer, or any other options Tenant has
pursuant to the Lease, as amended, are hereby terminated. 

6.                              Brokers/Commission .
Tenant and Landlord hereby acknowledge that the foregoing disclosure has been
previously made:   Colliers Turley Martin
Tucker Agent Jeff Hawley was the Landlord s Agent (the   Listing Broker  )
and was serving solely as Agent for the Landlord in connection with this Lease.
Colliers Turley Martin Tucker, Agent, Mike Statter, was the Tenant s Agent and
was serving solely as Agent for Tenant in connection with this Lease. Both
Landlord and Tenant acknowledge that this disclosure has been made to them.
Landlord will pay Tenant s Agent a commission of two percent (2%), being
$12,413.72. 

7.                              Further
Amendments . The Lease shall be and hereby is further amended wherever
necessary, even though not specifically referred to herein, in order to give
effect to the terms of this Seventh Amendment. 

8.                              Ratification .
The Lease, as amended hereby, is hereby ratified, confirmed and deemed in full     force and effective in accordance with its
terms. Tenant represents to Landlord that Tenant (a) is currently unaware
of any default by Landlord under the Lease; and (b) has full power and
authority to execute and deliver this Seventh Amendment and this Seventh
Amendment represents a valid and binding obligation of Tenant enforceable in
accordance with its terms. 

9  .                                  Governing
Law . This Seventh Amendment shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Missouri. 

10.                        Counterparts .
This Seventh Amendment may be executed in multiple counterparts each of
which is deemed an original but together constitute one and the same
instrument. This Seventh Amendment may be executed by facsimile and each
party has the right to rely upon a facsimile counterpart of this Seventh
Amendment signed by the other party to the same extent as if such party had
received an original counterpart. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Seventh Amendment has been
executed as of (but not necessarily on) the date and year first above written.  

3  

Dated: 2/9, 2006  

LANDLORD  : 

CORNERSTONE INDUSTRIAL FUND I,
  L.L.C.   

By:  

/s/ [ILLEGIBLE]  

Its Managing Member  

Dated:  2/7, 2006 

TENANT  : 

ST. LOUIS MUSIC, INC., a
  Missouri corporation   

By:  

/s/
  Donald J. Collins  

Name:  

Donald
  J. Collins  

Title:  

Vice
  President  

LOUD TECHNOLOGIES INC., a Washington 
  corporation   

By:  

/s/
  Tim O  Neil  

Name:  

Tim
  D. Neil  

Title:  

CFO  

4  

SIXTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE    

THE STATE OF MISSOURI  

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:  

COUNTY OF ST. LOUIS  

THIS SIXTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE (this   Amendment  )
has been executed as of this  8 th   day of November, 2000, by
THE REALTY ASSOCIATES FUND III, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (  Landlord  )
and ST. LOUIS MUSIC, INC. (  Tenant  ).  

R    E    C    I    T    A 
 L    S : 

A.                         Missouri
State Employees  Retirement System (  Prior Landlord  ) and Tenant have
heretofore executed that certain Lease Agreement (the   Original Lease  ),
dated as of May 23, 1988, as amended by Addendum to     Lease dated March 1, 1989, Second
Addendum to Lease dated December 3, 1991, Third Amendment to Lease dated March 3,
1994, Fourth Amendment to Lease dated May 9  ,   1995, and Fifth Amendment to Lease dated as     of     June 26,
1998 (such Original Lease, as     so
amended, is hereinafter called the   Lease  ), pursuant to which Tenant
leased from Prior Landlord approximately 45,984 square feet (the   Original
Premises  ) in that certain warehouse building and related improvements more
particularly described in the Lease (the   Project  ). 

B.                           Landlord
and Tenant desire to execute this Amendment in order to evidence their
agreement to (i) extend the     term
of the Lease, (ii) expand the Original Premises; and (iii) make certain
other amendments to the Lease, all as more particularly set forth in this
Amendment. 

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, Landlord and Tenant agree as follows, subject to the
contingencies set forth in this Amendment:  

Article I  

CERTAIN AMENDMENTS   

SECTION 1.01.                              Additional Premises .
Effective as of February 1, 2001, or such later date as described in Section 1.07
below (such data being the   Effective Date  ), and subject 

SIXTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE   - Page 1 of
4 
L:TA002-957\1ST. LOUIS MUSIC 1 NOV 1, 2000 

1  

to the terms and conditions set forth in this Amendment, the Lease
shall be amended to reflect that the Original Premises shall be hereby expanded
to include the premises outlined on the crosshatched floor plan attached hereto
as  Exhibit A  (the   Additional Premises  ) consisting of
approximately 32,547 rentable square feet (the Original Premises and the
Additional Premises being collectively referred to as the   Premises  ) In
that certain building known as Mid County 6, located at 8480-8514 Mid County
Industrial Drive, St. Louis, Missouri, and more particularly described in the
Lease (the   Building  ). As of the Effective Date,  Exhibit A 
to the Lease shall be amended to include  Exhibit A  attached to this
Amendment. Accordingly, the Premises shall consist of 78,531 rentable square
feet in the Building.  

SECTION 1.02.                              Lease Term . The term
of the Lease is hereby extended for a period of five (5) years from the
Effective Date, unless otherwise terminated in accordance with its express
terms. Tenant has no further renewal or extension options and any such rights
in the Lease are deleted. 

SECTION 1.03.                              Base Rent . Tenant must
pay Landlord, commencing on the Effective Date and continuing on the first day
of each month thereafter throughout the term, Base Rent for the entire Premises
in the amounts set forth below: 

The Base Rent shall be due and payable in equal monthly installments,
each such monthly installment due and payable on the first day of each calendar
month, in advance, without demand and without setoff or deduction whatsoever.
As used herein,  Lease Year  means each consecutive twelve-month period
beginning with the Effective Date, except that if the Effective Date is not the
first day of a calendar month, then the first Lease Year shall be the period
from the Effective Date through the final day of the twelve months after the
first day of the following month, and each subsequent Lease Year shall be the
twelve months following the prior Lease Year.  

SECTION 1.04.                              Additional Rent . As of
the Effective Date, Tenant must pay Landlord, as additional rent, Tenant s
proportionate share of (a) any increases in real estate taxes and
insurance premiums above that incurred during the 2000 calendar year, (b) all
common area maintenance and similar charges, which is currently estimated at
$0.35 per square foot for the 2000 calendar year and (c) Tenant s
Proportionate Share shall be increased to take into account the Additional
Premises. The foregoing payments must be made at the time and in the manner set
forth in the Lease. Tenant shall remain responsible for all utilities. 

SECTION 1.05.                              Right of First Offer .     Landlord
grants Tenant a right of first offer subject to  Exhibit C 
attached hereto. Tenant shall have no further rights to lease space in any
other premises in the Building and all     such
rights in the Lease are deleted. 

SIXTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE   - Page 2 of
4 
L:TA002-957\1ST. LOUIS MUSIC 1 NOV 1, 2000 

2  

SECTION 1.06.                              AS IS . Tenant accepts
the Additional Premises  as is   where is     without representation or warranty,
without any obligation to alter, remodel, improve, repair or decorate any part of
the Additional Premises, except as set forth on  Exhibit B  attached
hereto. 

SECTION 1.07.                              Availability . Landlord
and Tenant acknowledge that there is currently an existing tenant occupying the
Additional Premises. If the Additional Premises are not available at the
estimated time, Tenant agrees to take such Additional Premises at the time of
availability. Landlord shall have no liability to Tenant if the current tenant
holds over or the Additional Premises do not become available. If the
Additional Premises do not become available on or before March 31, 2001.
Tenant, as its sole remedy, may terminate this Amendment upon written
notice to Landlord given on or before April 1, 2001. 

SECTION 1.08.                              Further Amendments .
The Lease shall be and hereby is further amended wherever necessary, even
though not specifically referred to herein, in order to give effect to the
terms of this Amendment. The reference to  $500,000  in Section 13 of the
Original Lease is hereby amended to  $3,000,000  and the reference to  $50,000 
is amended to  $1,000,000.  

Article II   

MISCELLANEOUS    

SECTION 2.01.                              Ratification , The
Lease, as amended hereby, is hereby ratified, confirmed and deemed in full
force and effect in accordance with its terms. Each party represents to the
other that such party (a) is currently unaware of any default by the other
party under the Lease; and (b) has full power and authority to execute and
deliver this Amendment and this Amendment represents a valid and binding
obligation of such party enforceable in accordance with its terms, Landlord and
Tenant acknowledge that no brokers have been involved in this Amendment other
than Sansone Group DDR/LLC (  Sansone  ) and that Landlord shall be liable
for any commission that is due to Sansone. Landlord and Tenant hereby indemnify
each other from the payment of any commissions owed to any other broker with respect
to this Amendment resulting from the acts of such party, but not otherwise. 

SECTION 2.02.                              Notices . All notices
to be delivered to Landlord under the Lease or otherwise with respect to the
Premises shall, unless Landlord otherwise notifies Tenant, be delivered to
Landlord in accordance with Paragraph 21 the Lease to the following address: 

c/o TA Realty Corporation 
25 State Street, 10th floor 
Boston, Massachusetts 02109 
Attention: Asset Manager  

SECTION 2.03.                              Governing Law . This
Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
State of Missouri. 

SIXTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE   - Page 3 of
4 
L:TA002-957\1ST. LOUIS MUSIC 1 NOV 1, 2000 

3  

SECTION 2.04.                              Counterparts . This
Amendment may be executed in multiple counterparts each of which is deemed
an original but together constitute one and the same instrument. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been executed
as of (but not necessarily on) the date and year first above written.  

LANDLORD  : 

THE
  REALTY ASSOCIATES FUND III, L.P., 
  a Delaware limited partnership  

By:  

Realty Associates Fund III LLC, a Delaware limited
  liability company, its sole general partner  

By:  

Realty Associates Fund III Trust, a Massachusetts
  business trust, sole Member  

By:  

/s/
  Henry G. Brauer  

Name:  

Henry
  G. Brauer  

Title:  

Regional
  Director  

By:  

Realty Associates Fund III Texas Corporation, a
  Texas corporation general partner  

By:  

/s/
  Henry G. Brauer  

Name:  

Henry
  G. Brauer  

Title:  

Regional
  Director  

TENANT  : 

ST.
  LOUIS MUSIC, INC.  

By:  

/s/
  Donald J. Collins  

Name:  

Donald
  J. Collins  

Title:  

Vice
  President - Finance  

SIXTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE   - Page 4 of
4 
L:TA002-957\1ST. LOUIS MUSIC 1 NOV 1, 2000 

4  

5   

EXHIBIT B   

LANDLORD S WORK    

Tenant hereby accepts the Additional Premises in
their  AS IS  condition, and Landlord shall have no obligation to perform any
work therein (including, without limitation, demolition of any improvements
existing therein or construction of any tenant finish-work or other
improvements therein), and shall not be obligated to reimburse Tenant or
provide an allowance for any costs related to the demolition or construction of
improvements therein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord agrees to install
2 - 3 openings in the existing demising wall, using available Project standard
colors and materials, at Landlord s sole cost and expense, on or before the
Effective Date, subject to the terms of the Lease.  

1  

EXHIBIT C   

ONE-TIME RIGHT OF FIRST OFFER    

Subject to Subsection B below, and subject to any
expansion or renewal options of any current tenant in the Building (a   Prior
Tenant  ), Landlord hereby grants to Tenant for the term of the Lease a
one-time right of first offer for the space shown on  Exhibit C-l 
(collectively, the   ROFO Space  ), to be exercised in accordance with Subsection A
below.  

A.                         If     any ROFO Space becomes available for
lease to anyone other than a Prior Tenant, Landlord shall so notify Tenant (  Landlord s
ROFO Notice  ) identifying the available ROFO Space (the   Subject ROFO
Space  ). Landlord s ROFO Notice may be given up to seven (7) months
in advance of such availability and shall contain the terms upon which Landlord
intends to offer the Subject ROFO Space for lease to the market. Tenant shall
notify Landlord within thirty (30) days of receipt of Landlord s ROFO Notice whether
it desires to lease the Subject ROFO Space on the terms set forth in Landlord s
ROFO Notice. If Tenant does not notify Landlord within said thirty (30) day
period that it will lease the Subject ROFO Space. Tenant shall be deemed to
have refused the Subject ROFO Space. After any refusal, Tenant shall have no
further right of first offer for any ROFO Space and Landlord shall be free to
lease such space to any party for any term on terms and conditions acceptable
to Landlord and this  Exhibit C      shall
terminate. If Tenant exercises its right of first offer wish respect to the
Subject ROFO Space, such space shall be added to the Premises for all purposes
of this lease for the remaining Term of the Lease (but in no event less than
three (3) years) on (a) the terms specified in Landlord s ROFO
Notice, and (b) the terms of this Lease to the extent that they do not conflict
with the terms specified in Landlord s ROFO Notice, except that Tenant shall
have no further renewal or expansion rights. 

B.                           Tenant s
right of first offer is subject to the conditions that: (i) on the date
that Tenant delivers its notice exercising its right of first offer. Tenant is
not in default under the Lease after the expiration of any applicable notice
and cure periods, and (ii) Tenant shall not have assigned the Lease, or
sublet and portion of the Premises under a sublease which is in effect at any
time during the period commencing with Tenant s delivery of its notice and
ending on the date the ROFO Space is added to the Premises. 

C.                           Promptly
after Tenant s     exercise     of its right of first offer, Landlord
shall execute and deliver to Tenant an amendment to the Lease to reflect
changes in the Premises, Base Rental, Tenant s proportionate share and any
other appropriate terms changed by the addition of the ROFO Space. Within ten     (10) days thereafter, Tenant shall
execute and return the amendment. 

</EX-10.30>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 a06-2390_1ex21d1.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit
21.1   

SUBSIDIARIES OF LOUD TECHNOLOGIES INC.   

   As of December 31, 2005   

Subsidiary   

State of Incorporation or 
  Country in which Organized   

LOUD Technologies Canada Inc.  

Canada  

LOUD Technologies (Europe) Plc.  

UK  

Mackie Designs Inc.  

Washington, U.S.A  

SIA Software Company, Inc.  

New York, U.S.A.  

St. Louis Music, Inc.  

Missouri, U.S.A.  

1  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 a06-2390_1ex23d1.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

Exhibit
23.1   

Consent of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm   

The
Board of Directors and Shareholders  

  LOUD
Technologies Inc.:  

We consent to the
incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 33-98720 and
333-107060) on Form S-8 of LOUD Technologies Inc., of our report dated March
27, 2006, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of LOUD Technologies
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, shareholders  equity and comprehensive
income and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2005, which report appears in the December 31, 2005 annual
report on Form 10-K of LOUD Technologies Inc.  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 a06-2390_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1   

CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE
OFFICER   

PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, James T. Engen, certify that:  

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of LOUD
Technologies Inc.;  

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered
by this report;  

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)             Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)            Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(c)             Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5.                  The registrant s other
certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors: 

(a) 
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and  

(b) 
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.  

Dated:   March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/ James T.
  Engen  

James T. Engen  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 a06-2390_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL
OFFICER   

PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I, Timothy P. O Neil, certify that:  

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of LOUD
Technologies Inc.;  

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does
not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;  

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements,
and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the
registrant and have:  

(a)             Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)            Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(c)             Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have
disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of   internal control over financial reporting,
to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
of directors:  

(a) 
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and  

(b) 
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting.  

Dated:   March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/ Timothy P.
  O Neil  

Timothy P. O Neil  

Chief
  Financial Officer, Senior Vice President,   

Secretary
  and Treasurer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 a06-2390_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In
connection with the Annual Report of LOUD Technologies Inc. (the  Company ) on
Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), we, James T. Engen
and Timothy P. O Neil  , Chief Executive Officer   and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)  The Report fully complies with the
requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and  

(2)  The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of
operations of the Company.  

Dated:
  March 31, 2006    

By:  

/s/ James T.
  Engen  

James T. Engen  

Chairman,
  President and Chief   Executive Officer   

/s/ Timothy P. O Neil  

Timothy
  P. O Neil  

Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice 
  President Finance, Secretary and   
     Treasurer   

A signed original of this written statement required
by Section 906 has been provided to LOUD Technologies Inc. and will be retained
by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

