<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_913957_0000950129-06-003518_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>848429</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>240950</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>367370</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>48</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950129-06-003518.hdr.sgml : 20060418
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331180423
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950129-06-003518
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060418

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMREIT
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000913957
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				760410050
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			TX
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-31397
		FILM NUMBER:		06730681

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8 GREENWAY PLAZA
		STREET 2:		STE 824
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77046
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7138501400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8 GREENWAY PLAZA
		STREET 2:		STE 824
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77046

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AMREIT INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19981123

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AMERICAN ASSET ADVISERS TRUST INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19931022

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 S7EsohAjwbJa2ZWZFOGSm8PknydGGNk68wxKMxyHu22k6Hp57kY1QAJ8U5L9pcKe
 hQBpSUcmCNFakqt4imEZ4Q==

 0000950129-06-003518.txt : 20060418

10-K
 1
 h34634e10vk.htm
 AMREIT - 12/31/2005

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

(Mark One)

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 

or

Commission File No. 0-28378 

AmREIT 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  (713) 850-1400 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Exchange Act: 

Title of Class

Name of Exchange on Which Registered 

Class A Common Shares 

American Stock Exchange  

Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act). YES     NO    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.
YES     NO    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES     NO    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, a large accelerated
filer (see definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Large Accelerated Filer
       Accelerated
Filer        Non-Accelerated Filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).
YES     NO    

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates
computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and
asked price of such common equity as of June, 30, 2005:  $39.2 million 

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock, as
of the latest practicable date: 6,513,541 class A shares, 2,114,531 class B shares, 4,131,817 class
C shares, and 11,032,852 class D shares as of March 21, 2006.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

The registrant incorporates by reference into Part III portions of its Proxy Statement for the 2006
Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

Form10-K 

Item No. 

Report Page 

PART I   

1.  
       
       Business 

3 

1A.  
       
       Risk Factors 

9 

1B.  
       
       Unresolved Staff Comments 

16 

2.  
       
       Properties 

17 

3.  
       
       Legal Proceedings 

22 

4.  
       
       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

22 

PART II   

5.  
       
       Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities 

23 

6.  
       
       Selected Financial Data 

25 

7.  
       
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

27 

7A.  
       
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

38 

8.  
       
       Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

39 

9.  
       
       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

39 

9A.  
       
       Controls and Procedures 

39 

9B.  
       
       Other Information 

39 

PART III   

10.  
       
       Trust Managers and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

40 

11.  
       
       Executive Compensation 

40 

12.  
       
       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters 

40 

13.  
       
       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

40 

14.  
       
       Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

40 

PART IV   

15.  
       
       Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

41 

Eighth Modification Agreement effective 11/4/2005    
     Subsidiaries of the Company    
     Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of CEO    
     Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of CFO    
     CEO certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350    
     CFO certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350    

2

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1. Business  

General 

AmREIT (the  Company ) is a an established real estate company that at its core is a value creator
which has delivered results to our investors for 21 years. Our mission is to build a real estate
business that can realize profitable growth year over year regardless of market cycles. We have
developed three distinct businesses that provide earnings power from multiple sources. First, as a
 real estate development and operating company , we provide value through offering an array of
services to our tenants and properties, to our asset advisory group s portfolios and to third
parties. Second, our  asset advisory group  broadens the Company s avenues to capital and raises
private equity for a series of merchant development partnership funds. And third, we own  an
institutional-grade portfolio of  Irreplaceable Corners      premier retail properties in
high-traffic, highly populated, affluent areas   which are held for long-term value and provide a
foundation to our FFO growth through a steady stream of rental income.

As of December 31, 2005, we have over 1.3 million square feet of retail centers in various stages
of development or in the pipeline for both our asset advisory group and for third parties. Since listing
on the AMEX in July 2002, our total assets have grown from a book value of $48 million to $315
million, and equity within our asset advisory group has grown from $15 million to $61 million.

AmREIT s direct predecessor, American Asset Advisers Trust, Inc. was formed as a Maryland
corporation in 1993. American Asset Advisors Corp., our external advisor which was formed in 1985,
was merged into the Company in June 1998, at which time we changed our name to AmREIT, Inc. In
December 2002, we reorganized as a Texas real estate investment trust.

AmREIT s class A common shares are traded on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol  AMY .
Our offices are located at 8 Greenway Plaza, Suite 1000 Houston, Texas 77046. Our telephone
number is 713.850.1400 and we maintain an internet site at www.amreit.com.

Our Strategy 

In 2002, after 18 years as a private company, we listed our class A common shares on the American
Stock Exchange and set a ten-year goal to build a business model that would enable AmREIT to
outperform its peers. We set out to build a real estate company that could create value year over
year regardless of the market cycle. The result was the focused development of three distinct
businesses that provide earnings power from multiple sources: a real estate development and
operating business, an asset advisory business and a premium portfolio of Irreplaceable Corners.

These three business segments contribute to the Company s FFO both in combination and independently
from each other. These complementary operations give us the flexibility to achieve our financial
objectives over the long-term as we navigate the changing real estate market cycles.

In market cycles characterized by strong buyer demand, we place an emphasis on growing our asset
advisory business which manages our merchant development partnerships
funds. Through these funds, we can
actively manage a blend of value-added acquisition, redevelopment and development projects which
generate both transactional fees and recurring management fees. We also provide these real estate
services to third parties for a fee. This is a portion

3

Table of Contents   

of our strategy that we believe will allow us to continue to grow earnings at a faster pace than the
broader REIT market. With this portion of our strategy will come increased volatility, as this
real estate activity has a heavy transactional component. This means that quarter to quarter, our
earnings will fluctuate, but on an annual basis, and over the long term, we should produce
consistent growth in earnings.

In market cycles where we are able to capture a greater spread between cap rates and fixed-rate
debt terms, we place an emphasis on growing our portfolio of Irreplaceable Corners that provide a
steady and dependable income stream.

The active management approach we use within our asset advisory business combines our expertise in
acquisitions and merchant development and allows us to participate in both declining and rising
market cycles. This business was designed to generate an additional source of recurring income for
our shareholders based on equity under management as well as a stream of profits and back-end
interests as the funds liquidate and preferred returns are met for investors. This is the hidden
value behind our long-term growth.

Great people are at the heart of our company, our strategy and our structure. We have focused on
growing a team of professionals that display a high degree of character, that are extremely
competent, that are able to communicate clearly in good times and challenging times, and that are
contributing to our team-oriented culture. It is our people that are the backbone of our structure
and our ability to generate long-term shareholder value.

Our Structure 

Our structure consists of three distinct businesses that have been synergistically put together to
create value year over year in any market cycle: A real estate development and operating business,
an asset advisory business and an institutional-grade portfolio of irreplaceable corners.

Real Estate Development and Operating Group 

AmREIT s real estate development and operating business, AmREIT Realty Investment Corporation and
subsidiaries ( ARIC ), is a fully integrated and wholly-owned business consisting of brokers and
real estate professionals that provide development, acquisition, brokerage, leasing, construction,
asset and property management services to our portfolio of properties, to our asset advisory group,
and to third parties. This operating subsidiary, which is a taxable REIT subsidiary, is a
transaction-oriented subsidiary that is very active in the real estate market and generates
profits and fees on an annual basis. This business can provide significant long-term
and annual growth; however, due to its transactional nature, its quarter to quarter results will
fluctuate, and therefore its contributions to our quarterly earnings will be volatile.

Having a full complement of real estate professionals helps secure strong tenant relationships for
both our portfolio and the merchant development portfolios managed by our asset advisory business.
We have a growing roster of leases with well-known national and regional tenants, and of equal
importance is that we have affiliations with these parent company tenants that extend across
multiple sites. Not only does our real estate development and operating business create value
through relationships, but it also provides an additional source of fee income and profits.
Through the development, construction, management, leasing and brokerage services provided to our
asset advisory group, as well as to third parties, our real estate team continues to generate fees
and profits. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, ARIC generated net real
estate and asset management fees of $5.6 million, $2.3 million, and $1.3 million, which represented
16%, 11%, and 13%, of the Company s total revenues, respectively.

We are clearly in a seller s real estate market. There is more demand for high quality real estate
than there is supply. This is a time when, if you have the ability to develop projects and sell
them into the marketplace, you should. Through our real estate development activity, we are able
to generate additional profits through the selective

4

Table of Contents   

development or acquisition and disposition of properties within a short time period (12 to 18
months). The majority of these assets are listed as real estate assets held for sale on our
consolidated balance sheet. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, assets held for sale totaled
approximately $3.6 million and $6.3 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, ARIC has generated gains on sales of properties acquired for sale of $3.2 million,
$1.8 million, and $787,000, respectively.

Asset Advisory Group 

Our asset advisory group broadens the Company s
avenues to capital and consists of our
in-house securities group which raises private equity for a series of merchant development
partnership funds.

Securities Operations    The part of our business model and operating strategy that
distinguishes us from other publicly-traded REITs is our securities operation, or AmREIT Securities
Company (ASC), a National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) registered broker-dealer which
is a wholly-owned subsidiary of ARIC. For the past 21 years, we have been raising private capital
for our funds and building relationships in the financial planning and broker-dealer community,
earning fees and sharing in profits from those activities. Historically, our securities group has
raised capital in two ways: first, directly for AmREIT through non-traded classes of common
shares, and second, for our actively managed merchant development funds.

During 2005, our securities operation raised approximately $11 million for AmREIT Monthly Income
and Growth Fund III, Ltd., an affiliated merchant development fund sponsored by one of our
subsidiaries. Additionally, the advisory group raised approximately $89 million through our
class D common share offering. This was a $150 million publicly-registered offering through which
we raised a total of $110 million before terminating the offering in September 2005.

During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, our securities operation generated
commission revenues related to the sponsorship of our merchant development funds of $1.2 million,
$2.7 million and $1.5 million, respectively. The advisory group incurred commission expenses of
$864,000, $2.1 million and $1.1 million which were paid to non-affiliated broker-dealers in
conjunction with such capital-raising activities.

Merchant Development Funds    The asset advisory group invests in and actively manages five
merchant development partnership funds which were formed to develop, own, manage, and add value to
properties with an average holding period of two to four years. We invest as both the general
partner and as a limited partner, and our in-house securities group sells limited partnership interests
in these partnership funds to retail investors. We, as the general partner, manage the
partnerships and, in return, receive management fees as well as potentially significant profit
participation interests as the funds enter liquidation. However, we strive to create a structure
that aligns the interests of our shareholders with those of our limited partners. In this spirit,
the partnerships are structured so that the general partner receives a significant profit only
after the limited partners in the funds have received their targeted return which links our success
to that of the limited partners. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we
earned asset management fees of $495,000, $361,000 and $240,000, respectively, which are recurring
fees earned over the life of the partnership.

As of December 31, 2005, the advisory group directly managed, through its five actively managed
merchant development funds, a total of $61 million in contributed capital. One of the five
partnerships entered into the liquidation phase in 2003, and the remaining four partnerships enter
their liquidation phases in 2008, 2010, 2011, and 2012. As these partnerships enter into
liquidation, the Company, acting as the general partner, expects to receive economic benefit from
our profit participation, after certain preferred returns have been paid to the partnerships 
limited partners. During 2004, AmREIT recognized approximately $869,000 related to its general
partner interest in AmREIT Opportunity Fund, Ltd. (AOF). See Footnote 5 in the accompanying
consolidated

5

Table of Contents   

financial statements for more information. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, any unrealized
gains associated with potential profit participation in our merchant development partnerships have
not been reflected on our balance sheet or statement of operations. The income generated from our
asset advisory business, both the current return as well as the future benefits through back-end
interests and participations, will be a key factor in our ability to grow FFO at a faster pace than
our peers over our ten year journey.

Portfolio of Irreplaceable Corners 

During 2005, we acquired approximately 255,000 square feet of multi-tenant shopping centers,
representing over $110 million in assets at an average cap rate of 6.8%. We take a very hands-on
approach to ownership, and directly manage the operations and leasing at our properties. Our
portfolio consists primarily of premier retail properties typically located on  Main and Main 
intersections in high-traffic, highly populated affluent areas. Because of their location and
exposure as central gathering places, these centers attract
well-established tenants, and we believe
they can withstand the test of time, providing our shareholders a dependable rental income stream.

As of December 31, 2005, we owned a real estate portfolio consisting of 49 properties located in 15
states. Of our 49 properties, 25 are located in Texas, with 19 being
located in the greater Houston metropolitan statistical area. These 19
properties represented 64% of our rental income for the year ended
December 31, 2005. Our multi-tenant shopping center properties are primarily located throughout Texas, with a
concentration in the Houston area and are leased to national, regional and local tenants. Our
single-tenant properties are located throughout the United States and are generally leased to
corporate tenants where the lease is the direct obligation of the parent company, not just the
local operator, and in most other cases, our leases are guaranteed by the parent company. The
dependability of the lease payments is therefore based on the strength and viability of the entire
company, not just the leased location. Properties that we acquire are generally newly constructed
or recently constructed at the time of acquisition. We believe the locations of our properties,
and the high barriers to entry at those locations allow us to maximize leasing income through
comparatively higher rental rates and high occupancy rates. As of December 31, 2005, the occupancy
rate at our operating properties was 96.4% based on leasable square footage compared to 96.6% as of
December 31, 2004.

We invest in properties where we believe effective leasing and operating strategies, combined with
cost-effective expansion and renovation programs, can improve the existing properties  value while
providing superior current economic returns. These fungible types of improvements allow us to
place grocery-anchored shopping centers, strip centers and lifestyle centers onto our properties.
We believe that investment in and operation of commercial retail real estate is a local business
and we focus our investments in areas where we have strong knowledge of the local markets. The
areas where a majority of our properties are located are densely populated, urban infill
communities in and around Houston, Dallas and San Antonio.

Within these broad markets, we target locations that we believe have the best demographics and
highest long term value. We refer to these properties as  Irreplaceable Corners . Our criteria for
an Irreplaceable Corner includes: high barriers to entry (typically infill locations in
established communities without significant raw land available for development), significant
population within a three mile radius (typically in excess of 100,000 people), located on the hard
corner of an intersection guided by a traffic signal, ideal average household income in excess of
$80,000 per year, strong visibility and significant traffic counts passing by the location
(typically in excess of 30,000 cars per day). We believe that centers with these characteristics
will provide for consistent leasing demand and rents that increase at or above the rate of
inflation. Additionally, these areas have barriers to entry for competitors seeking to develop
new properties due to the lack of available land.

Our shopping centers are primarily grocery-anchored, strip center, and lifestyle properties whose
tenants consist of national, regional and local retailers. Our typical grocery anchored shopping
center is anchored by an

6

Table of Contents   

established major grocery store operator in the region such as Kroger. Our retail shopping centers
are leased to national and regional tenants such as GAP, Starbucks, Bank of America, and Verizon
Wireless as well as a mix of local and value retailers. Lifestyle centers, such as Uptown Park -
Houston, are typically anchored by a combination of national and regional restaurant tenants that
provide customer traffic and tenant draw for specialty tenants that support the local consumer.
The balance of our retail properties are leased to national drug stores, national restaurant
chains, national value-oriented retail stores and other regional and local retailers. The majority
of our leases are either leased or guaranteed by the parent company, not just the operator of the
individual location. All of our shopping centers are located in areas of substantial retail
shopping traffic. Our properties generally attract tenants who provide basic staples and
convenience items to local customers. We believe sales of these items are less sensitive to
fluctuations in the business cycle than higher priced retail items. No single retail tenant
represented more than 8% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005.

We own, and may purchase in the future, fee simple retail properties (we own the land and the
building), ground lease properties (we own the land, but not the building and receive rental income
from the owner of the building) or leasehold estate properties (we own the building, but not the
land, and therefore are obligated to make a ground lease payment to the owner of the land). We may
also develop properties for our portfolio or enter into joint ventures, partnerships or
co-ownership for the development of retail properties.

As of December 31, 2005, three properties individually accounted for more than 10% of the Company s
year-end consolidated total assets   Plaza in the Park in Houston, Texas, Uptown Park in Houston,
Texas and MacArthur Park in Dallas, Texas accounted for 10%, 22% and 17%, respectively of total
assets. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the top three tenants by rental income concentration
were Kroger at 11.9%, IHOP at 9.2% and CVS/pharmacy at 4.4%. Consistent with our strategy of
investing in areas that we know well, 19 of our properties are located in the Houston metropolitan
area. These properties represented 64% of our rental income for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Houston is Texas  largest city and the fourth largest city in the United States. See  Location of
Properties  in Item 2. Description of Property for further discussion regarding Houston s economy.

We are continuing to divest of properties which no longer meet our core criteria, and during 2005,
we sold $16.6 million in single-tenant properties, resulting in a combined gain on sale of
approximately $3.4 million. These proceeds were then used to acquire additional multi-tenant
shopping centers where we have the ability to create long term value for shareholders.

Our strategy and our structure, as discussed herein, are reviewed by our Board of Trust Managers on
a regular basis and may be modified or changed without a vote of our shareholders.

Competition 

All of our properties are located in areas that include competing properties. The number of
competitive properties in a particular area could have a material
adverse affect on both our ability to lease space at any of its properties or at any newly developed or acquired properties
and the rents charged. We may be competing with owners, including, but not limited to, other
REITs, insurance companies and pension funds that have greater
resources than us.

Compliance with Governmental Regulations 

Under various federal and state environmental laws and regulations, as an owner or operator of real
estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances,
asbestos-containing materials, or petroleum product releases at our properties. We may also be held
liable to a governmental entity or to third parties

7

Table of Contents   

for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by those parties in connection
with the contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site
in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination.
The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contaminations at any of our properties
may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the properties or to borrow using the properties
as collateral. We could also be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries
resulting from environmental contamination coming from our properties.

All of our properties will be acquired subject to satisfactory Phase I environmental assessments,
which generally involve the inspection of site conditions without invasive testing such as sampling
or analysis of soil, groundwater or other media or conditions; or satisfactory Phase II
environmental assessments, which generally involve the testing of soil, groundwater or other media
and conditions. Our board of trust managers may determine that we will acquire a property in which
a Phase I or Phase II environmental assessment indicates that a problem exists and has not been
resolved at the time the property is acquired, provided that (A) the seller has (1) agreed in
writing to indemnify us and/or (2) established an escrow account with case funds equal to a
predetermined amount greater than the estimated costs to remediate the problem; or (B) we have
negotiated other comparable arrangements, including, without limitation, a reduction in the
purchase price. We cannot be sure, however, that any seller will be able to pay under an indemnity
we obtain or that the amount in escrow will be sufficient to pay all remediation costs. Further, we
cannot be sure that all environmental liabilities have been identified or that no prior owner,
operator or current occupant has created an environmental condition not known to us. Moreover, we
cannot be sure that (1) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material
environmental liability or (2) the current environmental condition of our properties will not be
affected by tenants and occupants of the properties, by the condition of land or operations in the
vicinity of the properties (such as the presence of underground storage tanks), or by third parties
unrelated to us.

Employees 

As of
December 31, 2005, we had 50 full-time employees, 3 full-time contract personnel and 5
full-time dedicated brokers.

Financial Information 

Additional financial information related to AmREIT is included in Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.

8

Table of Contents   

Item 1A. Risk Factors   

Risks Associated with an Investment in AmREIT 

Our class A common shares have limited average daily trading volume.   

Our class A common shares are currently traded on the American Stock Exchange. Our class A
common shares have been listed since July 2002, and as of December 31, 2005, the average daily
trading volume was approximately 25,095 shares based on a 90-day average. As a result, the class A
common shares currently have limited liquidity.

There may be significant fluctuations in our quarterly results.   

Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate based on a number of factors, including, among
others:

interest rate changes; 

the volume and timing of our property acquisitions; 

the amount and timing of income generated by our real estate operating and
development and securities company subsidiaries, as well as our retail
partnerships; 

the recognitions of gains or losses on property sales; 

the level of competition in our market; and 

general economic conditions, especially those affecting the retail industries. 

As a result of these factors, results for any quarter should not be relied upon as being
indicative of performance in future quarters. The market price of our class A common shares could
fluctuate with fluctuations in our quarterly results.

The conversion and conversion premium associated with the class C and class D
common shares may dilute the interest of the Class A common shares.   

At December 31, 2005, there were 4,119,923 class C common shares outstanding and 11,035,482
class D common shares outstanding.

The class C common shares were issued at $10.00 per share and have the ability to convert into
class A common shares based on 110% of original investment (i.e. $1,000 of original investment
converts into $1,100 of class A common shares) after a seven-year lock out period from the date of
issuance. The shares were issued between September 2003 and May 2004. The class C common shares
are redeemable by the Company three years after issuance at 110% of original investment.

The class D common shares were issued at $10.00 per share and have the ability to convert into
class A common shares based on 107.7% of original investment (i.e. $1,000 of original investment
converts into $1,077
of class A common shares) after a seven-year lock out period from the date of issuance. The
shares were issued between July 2004 and September 2005. The class D common shares are redeemable
by the Company one year

9

Table of Contents   

after issuance for 100% of original investment plus the pro rata portion of
the 7.7% conversion premium.

The economic impact of the conversion of these non-traded shares can be affected by many
factors, including the following:

The price of our publicly traded class A common shares; 

The multiple and valuation at which our class A common shares trade; 

Our ability to grow earnings, net income and FFO as well as dividends; and 

Our ability to redeem these shares is based on our ability to access the debt and equity markets as well as
on the liquidity in our balance sheet generated primarily by asset sales. 

Conversion of class B common shares could put downward pressure on the market
price of our class A common shares.   

As of December 31, 2005, there were 2,148,649 class B common shares outstanding, each of which
is currently convertible into class A common shares on a one-for-one basis. The class B common
shares are not listed on any exchange, and no trading market presently exists for the class B
common shares. As a result, holders of the class B common shares who convert to class A common
shares may be doing so, in part, to be able to liquidate some or all of their investment in AmREIT.
Due to the limited average trading volume of the class A common shares, substantial sales of class
A common shares would result in short-term downward pressure on the price of the class A common
shares.

Distribution payments in respect of our Class A common share are subordinate to
payments on debt and other series of common shares.   

We
have paid distributions since our organization in 1993. Distributions to our
shareholders, however, are subordinate to the payment of our current debts and obligations. If we
have insufficient funds to pay our debts and obligations, future distributions to shareholders will
be suspended pending the payment of such debts and obligations. Dividends may be paid on the class
A common shares only if all dividends then payable on the class B common shares and class C common
shares have been paid. As a result, the class A common shares are subordinate to the class B and
class C common shares as to dividends.

The economic performance and value of our shopping centers depend on many
factors, each of which could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and
operating results.   

The economic performance and value of our properties can be affected by many factors, including the
following:

Changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; 

Local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for retail real
estate in the area; 

The attractiveness of the properties to tenants; 

Competition from other available space; 

Our ability to provide adequate management services and to maintain our properties; 

Increased operating costs, if these costs cannot be passed through to tenants; and 

The expense of periodically renovating, repairing and releasing spaces. 

Our
properties consist primarily of neighborhood and community shopping centers, and, therefore, our
performance is linked to general economic conditions in the market for retail space. The market for
retail space

10

Table of Contents   

has been and may continue to be adversely affected by weakness in the national,
regional and local economies where our properties are located, the adverse financial condition of
some large retailing companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, the excess amount
of retail space in a number of markets and increasing consumer purchases through catalogues and the
Internet. To the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to affect market rents
for retail space. In addition, we may face challenges in the management and maintenance of the
properties or encounter increased operating costs, such as real estate taxes, insurance and
utilities, which may make our properties unattractive to tenants.

Our dependence on rental income may adversely affect our ability to meet our
debt obligations and make distributions to our shareholders.   

The majority of our income is derived from rental income from our portfolio of properties. As
a result, our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from tenants. Our income and
therefore our ability to make distributions would be negatively affected if a significant number of
our tenants, or any of our major tenants:

Delay lease commencements; 

Decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration; 

Fail to make rental payments when due; or 

Close stores or declare bankruptcy. 

Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenant s leases and the loss of rental
income attributable to the terminated leases. Lease terminations by an anchor tenant or a failure
by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could also result in lease terminations or reductions
in rent by other tenants in the same shopping center under the terms of some leases. In addition,
we cannot be sure that any tenant whose lease expires will renew that lease or that we will be able
to re-lease space on economically advantageous terms. The loss of rental revenues from a number of
our tenants and our inability to replace such tenants may adversely affect our profitability and
our ability to meet debt and other financial obligations and make distributions to shareholders.

Tenant, geographic or retail product concentrations in our real estate
portfolio could make us vulnerable to negative economic and other trends.   

There is no limit on the number of properties that we may lease to a single tenant. However,
under investment guidelines established by our board, no single tenant may represent more than 15%
of AmREIT s total annual revenue unless approved by our board. Our board will review our properties
and potential investments in terms of geographic and tenant diversification. Kroger, IHOP and CVS
accounted for 8.3%, 6.5% and 3.0%, respectively, of AmREIT s total operating revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2005. There is a risk that any adverse developments affecting either Kroger,
IHOP or CVS could materially adversely affect our revenues (thereby affecting our ability to make
distributions to shareholders).

Approximately 64% of our rental income for the year ended December 31, 2005, is generated from
properties located in the Houston, Texas metropolitan area. Additionally, approximately 89% of our
rental income for the year is generated from properties located throughout major metropolitan areas
in the State of Texas. Therefore, we are vulnerable to economic downturns affecting Houston and
Texas, or any other metropolitan area where we might in the future have a concentration of
properties.

If,
in the future, properties we acquire result in or extend geographic or tenant concentrations
or concentration of product types, such acquisitions may increase the risk that our financial
condition will be adversely affected by
the poor judgment of a particular tenant s management group, by poor performance of our tenants 
brands, by a downturn in a particular market sub-segment or by market disfavor with a certain
product type.

Our profitability and our ability to diversify our investments, both geographically and by
type of properties

11

Table of Contents   

purchased, will be limited by the amount of capital at our disposal. An economic
downturn in one or more of the markets in which we have invested could have an adverse effect on
our financial condition and our ability to make distributions.

We may increase our leverage without shareholder approval.   

Our bylaws provide that we will not incur recourse indebtedness if, after giving effect to the
incurrence thereof, aggregate recourse indebtedness, secured and unsecured, would exceed fifty-five
percent (55%) of our gross asset value on a consolidated basis. However, our operating at the
maximum amount of leverage permitted by our bylaws could adversely affect our cash available for
distribution to our shareholders and could result in an increased risk of default on our
obligations. We intend to borrow funds through secured and/or unsecured credit facilities to
finance property investments in the future. These borrowings may require lump sum payments of
principal and interest at maturity. Because of the significant cash requirements necessary to make
these large payments, our ability to make these payments may depend upon our access to capital
markets and/or ability to sell or refinance properties for amounts sufficient to repay such loans.
At such times, our access to capital might be limited or non-existent and the timing for disposing
of properties may not be optimal, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and/or
discontinue payment of dividends. In addition, increased debt service may adversely affect cash
flow and share value.

At
December 31, 2005, we had outstanding debt totaling $114.7 million, all of which was
fixed-rate secured financing. This debt represented approximately 40%
of our net real estate
investments.

If we cannot meet our REIT distribution requirements, we may have to borrow
funds or liquidate assets to maintain our REIT status.   

REITs generally must distribute 90% of their taxable income annually. In the event that we do
not have sufficient available cash to make these distributions, our ability to acquire additional
properties may be limited. Also, for the purposes of determining taxable income, we may be required
to include interest payments, rent and other items we have not yet received and exclude payments
attributable to expenses that are deductible in a different taxable year. As a result, we could
have taxable income in excess of cash available for distribution. In such event, we could be
required to borrow funds or sell assets in order to make sufficient distributions and maintain our
REIT status.

We will be subject to conflicts of interest.   

We will be subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationships with our merchant
development funds, including certain material conflicts discussed below.

We will experience competition for acquisition properties. In evaluating property
acquisitions, certain properties may be appropriate for acquisition
by either us or one of our
merchant development partnerships. You will not have the opportunity to evaluate the manner in
which these conflicts of interest are resolved before making your investment. Generally, we will
evaluate each property, considering the investment objectives, creditworthiness of the tenants,
expected holding period of the property, available capital and geographic and tenant concentration
issues when determining the allocation of properties among us and our merchant development
partnerships.

There will be competing demands on our management and board. Our management team and board are
not only responsible for AmREIT, but also for our merchant development funds, which include
entities that may invest in the same types of assets in which AmREIT may invest. For this reason,
the management team and trust managers will divide their management time and services among those
companies and AmREIT, will not 

12

Table of Contents   

devote all of their attention to AmREIT and could take actions that
are more favorable to the other entities than to AmREIT.

We
may invest along side our merchant development funds. We may also invest in joint
ventures, partnerships or limited liability companies for the purpose of owning or developing
retail real estate projects. In either event, we may be a general partner and fiduciary for and owe
certain duties to our other partners in such ventures. The interests, investment objectives and
expectations regarding timing of dispositions may be different for the other partners than those of
our shareholders, and there are no assurances that your interests and investment objectives will
take priority.

We may, from time to time, purchase one or more properties from our merchant development
partnerships. In such circumstances, we will work with the applicable merchant development
partnership to ascertain, and we will pay, the market value of the property. By our dealing
directly with our merchant development partnerships in this manner, generally no brokerage
commissions will be paid; however, there can be no assurance that the price we pay for any property
will be equal to or greater than the price we would have been able to negotiate from an independent
third party. These property acquisitions from the merchant development partnerships will be limited
to properties that the merchant development partnerships developed.

Risks Associated with an Investment in Real Estate 

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid.   

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Illiquidity limits the owner s ability to
vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition,
federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs may limit our ability to sell properties at a
time which would be in the best interest of our shareholders.

Our properties are subject to general real estate operating risks.   

If
you become a shareholder of AmREIT, your investment will be subject to the risks of
investing in real property. In general, a downturn in the national or local economy, changes in
zoning or tax laws or the lack of availability of financing could adversely affect occupancy or
rental rates. In addition, increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors may not
be offset by increased rents. If operating expenses increase, the local rental market for
properties similar to ours may limit the extent to which rents may be increased to meet
increased expenses without decreasing occupancy rates. If any of the above occurs, our ability to
make distributions to shareholders could be adversely affected.

We may construct improvements, the cost of which may not be recoverable.   

We may on occasion acquire properties and construct improvements or acquire properties under
contract for development. Investment in properties to be developed or constructed is more risky
than investments in fully developed and constructed properties with operating histories. In
connection with the acquisition of these properties, we may advance, on an unsecured basis, a
portion of the purchase price in the form of cash, a conditional letter of credit and/or a
promissory note. We will be dependent upon the seller or lessee of the property under construction
to fulfill its obligations, including the return of advances and the completion of construction.
This party s ability to carry out its obligations may be affected by financial and other conditions
which are beyond our control.

If we acquire construction properties, the general contractors and the subcontractors may not
be able to
control the construction costs or build in conformity with plans, specifications and timetables.
The failure of a contractor to perform may necessitate our commencing legal action to rescind the
construction contract, to compel performance or to rescind our purchase contract. These legal
actions may result in increased costs to us. Performance may also be affected or delayed by
conditions beyond the contractor s control, such as building restrictions, clearances and
environmental impact studies imposed or caused by governmental bodies, labor 

13

Table of Contents   

strikes, adverse
weather, unavailability of materials or skilled labor and by financial insolvency of the general
contractor or any subcontractors prior to completion of construction. These factors can result in
increased project costs and corresponding depletion of our working capital and reserves and in the
loss of permanent mortgage loan commitments relied upon as a primary source for repayment of
construction costs.

We may make periodic progress payments to the general contractors of properties prior to
construction completion. By making these payments, we may incur substantial additional risks,
including the possibility that the developer or contractor receiving these payments may not fully
perform the construction obligations in accordance with the terms of
his agreement with us and
that we may be unable to enforce the contract or to recover the progress payments.

An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could
subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties.   

Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants
generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to
persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the
properties, except for claims arising from our negligence or intentional misconduct or that of our
agents. Tenants are generally required, at the tenant s expense, to obtain and keep in full force
during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. We have obtained
comprehensive liability, casualty, property, flood and rental loss insurance policies on our
properties. All of these policies may involve substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. In
addition, we cannot assure the shareholders that the tenants will properly maintain their insurance
policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an
amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a
loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or
part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which
could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as
our ability to make distributions to the shareholders.

We will have no economic interest in leasehold estate properties.   

We currently own properties, and may acquire additional properties, in which we own only the
leasehold interest, and do not own or control the underlying land. With respect to these leasehold
estate properties, we will have no economic interest in the land at the expiration of the lease,
and therefore may lose the right to the use of the properties at the end of the ground lease.

We may invest in joint ventures.   

Investments in joint ventures may involve risks which may not otherwise be present in our
direct investments such as:

the potential inability of our joint venture partner to perform; 

the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or
goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to ours; 

the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our requests or
instructions or contrary to our objectives or policies; and 

the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to
the property they jointly own. Although 

14

Table of Contents   

each joint owner will have a
right of first refusal to purchase the other owner s interest, in the
event a sale is desired, the joint owner may not have sufficient
resources to exercise such right of first refusal. 

We also may participate with other investors, possibly including investment programs or other
entities affiliated with our management, in investments as tenants-in-common or in some other joint
venture arrangement. The risks of such joint ownership may be similar to those mentioned above for
joint ventures and, in the case of a tenancy-in-common, each co-tenant normally has the right, if
an unresolvable dispute arises, to seek partition of the property, which partition might decrease
the value of each portion of the divided property.

Our properties may be subject to environmental liabilities.   

Under various federal and state environmental laws and regulations, as an owner or operator of
real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances,
asbestos-containing materials, or petroleum product releases at our properties. We may also be held
liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and
cleanup costs incurred by those parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, some
environmental laws create a lien in favor of the government on the contaminated site for damages
and costs the government incurs in connection with the contamination. The presence of contamination
or the failure to remediate contaminations at any of our properties may adversely affect our
ability to sell or lease the properties or to borrow using the properties as collateral. We could
also be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from
environmental contamination coming from our properties.

Certain of our properties have had prior tenants such as gasoline stations and, as a result,
have existing underground storage tanks and/or other deposits that currently or in the past
contained hazardous or toxic substances. Other properties have known asbestos containing materials.
The existence of underground storage tanks, asbestos containing materials or other hazardous
substances on or under our properties could have the consequences described above. Also, we have
not recently had environmental reports produced for many of our older properties, and, as a result,
many of the environmental reports relating to our older properties are significantly outdated. In
addition, we have not obtained environmental reports for five of our older properties. These
properties could have environmental conditions with unknown consequences.

All of our future properties will be acquired subject to satisfactory Phase I environmental
assessments, which generally involve the inspection of site conditions without invasive testing
such as sampling or analysis of soil, groundwater or other media or conditions; or satisfactory
Phase II environmental site assessments, which generally involve the testing of soil, groundwater
or other media and conditions. Our board may determine that we will acquire a property in which a
Phase I or Phase II environmental assessment indicates that a problem exists and has not been
resolved at the time the property is acquired, provided that (A) the seller has (1) agreed in
writing to indemnify us and/or (2) established in escrow cash equal to a predetermined amount
greater than the estimated costs to remediate the problem; or (B) we have negotiated other
comparable arrangements, including, without limitation, a reduction in the purchase price. We
cannot be sure, however, that any seller will be able to pay under an indemnity we obtain or that
the amount in escrow will be sufficient to pay all remediation costs. Further, we cannot be sure
that all environmental liabilities have been identified or that no prior owner, operator or current
occupant has created an environmental condition not known to us. Moreover, we cannot be sure that
(1) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability or
(2) the current
environmental condition of our properties will not be affected by tenants and occupants of the
properties, by the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as the
presence of underground storage tanks), or by third parties unrelated to us. Environmental
liabilities that we may incur could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of
operations.

15

Table of Contents   

Risks Associated with Federal Income Taxation of AmREIT 

Our failure to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes would result in taxation of
us as a corporation and the reduction of funds available for shareholder
distribution.   

Although we believe we are organized and are operating so as to qualify as a REIT, we may not
be able to continue to remain so qualified. In addition REIT qualification provisions under the tax
laws may change. We are not aware, however, of any currently pending tax legislation that would
adversely affect its ability to continue to qualify as a REIT.

For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income
tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain
statutory provisions, we also will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable
years following the year during which qualification is lost. This treatment would reduce the net
earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax
liability for the year or years involved. In addition, distributions no longer would qualify for
the dividends paid deduction nor would there be any requirement that such distributions be made. To
the extent that distributions to shareholders would have been made in anticipation of our
qualifying as a REIT, we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate certain of its
investments to pay the applicable tax.

We may be liable for prohibited transaction tax and/or penalties.   

A violation of the REIT provisions, even where it does not cause failure to qualify as a REIT,
may result in the imposition of substantial taxes, such as the 100% tax that applies to net income
from a prohibited transaction if we are determined to be a dealer in real property. Because the
question of whether that type of violation occurs may depend on the facts and circumstances
underlying a given transaction, these violations could inadvertently occur. To reduce the
possibility of an inadvertent violation, the trust managers intend to rely on the advice of legal
counsel in situations where they perceive REIT provisions to be inconclusive or ambiguous.

Changes in the tax law may adversely affect our REIT status.   

The discussions of the federal income tax considerations are based on current tax laws.
Changes in the tax laws could result in tax treatment that differs materially and adversely from
that described in this registration statement.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

The company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the
staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding
December 31, 2005, that remain unresolved.

16

Table of Contents   

Item 2. Properties  

General 

At December 31, 2005, we owned 49 properties located in 15 states. Reference is made to the
Schedule III   Consolidated Real Estate Owned and Accumulated Depreciation filed with this Form
10-K for a listing of the properties and their respective costs.

Since 1995, we have been developing and acquiring multi-tenant shopping centers in our asset
advisory business. During this time, we believe we have sharpened our ability to recognize the
ideal location of high-end shopping centers and single-tenant properties that can create long-term
value which we define as Irreplaceable Corners. Multi-tenant shopping centers represent 81.2% of
annualized rental income from properties owned as of December 31, 2005, with the balance being
single-tenant properties primarily leased by parent companies throughout the United States.

Land  - Our property sites, on which our leased buildings sit, range from approximately 34,000 to
1.0 million square feet, depending upon building size and local demographic factors. Our sites are
in highly-populated, high traffic corridors and have been reviewed for traffic and demographic
pattern and history.

Buildings   -  The buildings are multi-tenant shopping centers and freestanding single-tenant
properties located at  Main and Main  locations throughout the United States. They are positioned
for good exposure to traffic flow and are constructed from various combinations of stucco, steel,
wood, brick and tile. Multi-tenant buildings are generally 14,000 square feet and greater, and
single-tenant buildings range from approximately 2,000 to 20,000 square feet. Buildings are
suitable for possible conversion to various uses, although modifications may be required prior to
use for other operations.

Leases   -  Primary lease terms range from five to 25 years. Generally, leases also provide for one
to four five-year renewal options. Our retail properties are primarily leased on a  net  basis
whereby the tenants are responsible , either directly or through landlord reimbursement, for the
property taxes, insurance and operating costs such as water, electric, landscaping, maintenance and
security. Generally, leases provide for either percentage rents based on sales in excess of
certain amounts, periodic escalations or increases in the annual rental rates or both.

Location of Properties 

Based in Houston, our current focus is on property investments in Texas. Of our 49 properties, 25
are located in Texas, with 19 being located in the greater Houston metropolitan statistical area.
These 19 properties represented 64% of our rental income for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our
portfolio of assets tends to be located in areas we know well, and where we can monitor them
closely. Because of our proximity and deep knowledge of our markets, we believe we can deliver an
extra degree of hands-on management to our real estate investments. We expect over the long term
we will outperform absentee landlords in these markets.

Because of our investments in the greater Houston area, and throughout Texas, the Houston and Texas
economy
have a significant impact on our business and on the viability of our properties. Accordingly,
management believes that any downturn in the Houston and Dallas economy could adversely affect us;
however, general retail and grocery anchored shopping centers, which we primarily own, provide
basic necessity-type items, and tend to be less sensitive to macroeconomic downturns.

Additionally, according to the Greater Houston Partnership, Houston is the 4 th  most
populous city in the nation,

17

Table of Contents   

trailing only New York, Los Angeles and Chicago. If Houston was a
state, it would rank 36 th  in population. It is among the nation s fastest-growing and
most diverse metropolitan areas and is growing faster than both the state of Texas and the nation.
Since 2000, approximately 49% of Houston s population growth has been from net migration with 80%
of that growth attributed to international immigration. Houston s economic base has diversified,
sharply decreasing its dependence on upstream energy. Diversifying, or energy-independent, sectors
account for 88% of net job growth in the economic base since 1988. Oil and gas exploration and
production accounts for 11% of Houston s Gross Area Product (GAP), down sharply from 21% as
recently as 1985. The reduced role of oil and gas in Houston s GAP reflects the rapid growth of
such sectors as engineering services, health services and manufacturing. The Port of Houston in
2004 ranked first among U.S ports in volume of foreign tonnage and is the world s 6 th 
largest port. Two major railroads and 150 trucking lines connect the Port to the balance of the
continental United States, Canada and Mexico. Europe and Latin America are Houston s top seaborne
trading partners.

A listing of our properties by property type and by location as of December 31, 2005, follows
based upon gross leasable area (GLA):

18

Table of Contents   

(1) 
       
     Under Development (GLA represents proposed leasable square footage) 

(2) 
       
     Held
for Sale 

(3) 
       
     Held in joint venture of which we are the managing 50% owner 

(4) 
       
     Advance Auto properties are located in MO and IL. Each of the properties has a proposed GLA of
7,000 square feet. 

(5) 
       
     IHOP properties are located in NM, LA, OR, VA, TX, CA, TN CO, VA, NY, OR, KS and MO. Each of
the properties has a GLA of 4,020 square feet. These properties are held by a consolidated
subsidiary, 79.0% of which is owned by us, 19.6% of which is owned by AmREIT Income   Growth
Corporation, one of our merchant development funds, and 1.4% of which is owned by unaffiliated
third parties. 

(6) 
       
     These properties are 100% leased; however, rent does not commence until after December 31,
2005. 

19

Table of Contents   

The rental
income generated by our properties during 2005 by state is as follows
($ in thousands):

Grocery-anchored Shopping Centers 

Our grocery-anchored shopping centers comprise 36.9%
of our annualized rental income from the
properties owned as of December 31, 2005. These properties are designed for maximum retail
visibility and ease of access and parking for the consumer. All of our grocery-anchored centers
are anchored by Kroger and are supported by a mix of specialty national and regional tenants such
as Barnes   Noble, GAP and Starbucks. They are leased in a manner that provides a complimentary
array of services to support the local retail consumer. These properties are located in the
Houston and Dallas metropolitan areas and are typically located at an intersection guided by a
traffic light, with high visibility, significant daily traffic counts, and in close proximity to
neighborhoods and communities with household incomes above those of the national average. We are
dependent upon the financial viability of Kroger, and any downturn in Kroger s operating results
could negatively impact our operating results. Refer to Kroger s filings with the SEC website at
 www.sec.gov .

All of our grocery-anchored center leases provide for the monthly payment of base rent plus
operating expenses. This monthly operating expense payment is based on an estimate of the tenant s
pro rata share of property taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other common area
maintenance charges. Annually these operating expenses are reconciled with any overage being reimbursed to the tenants, with any underpayment being billed
to the tenant. Generally these are net lease terms and allow the landlord to recover all of its
operating expenses, with the exception

20

Table of Contents   

of expenses allocable to any vacant space.

Our grocery-anchored shopping center leases range from five to 20 years and generally include one
or more five-year renewal options. Annual rental income from these leases ranges from $22 thousand
to $1.0 million per year.

Neighborhood, Lifestyle and Community Shopping Centers 

As of December 31, 2005, we owned ten shopping centers, excluding the grocery-anchored centers
discussed above, representing approximately 369,000 leaseable square feet. Our shopping center
properties are primarily neighborhood, lifestyle and community centers, ranging from 8,400 to
170,000 square feet. None of the centers have internal common areas, but instead are designed for
maximum retail visibility and ease of access and parking for the consumer. These properties have a
mix of national, regional and local tenants, leased in a manner to provide a complimentary array of
services to support the local retail consumer. All of our centers are located in major
metropolitan areas, are typically located at an intersection guided by a traffic light, with high
visibility, significant daily traffic counts, and are in close proximity to neighborhoods and
communities with household incomes above those of the national average.

All of our shopping center leases provide for the monthly payment of base rent plus operating
expenses. This monthly operating expense payment is based on an estimate of the tenant s pro rata
share of property taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other common area maintenance
charges. Annually these operating expenses are reconciled with any overage being reimbursed to the
tenants, with any underpayment being billed to the tenant.

Our multi-tenant shopping center leases range from five to twenty years and generally include one
or more five-year renewal options. Annual rental income from these leases ranges from $12 thousand
to $409 thousand per year and typically allow for rental increases, or bumps, periodically through
the life of the lease.

Single-tenant Properties 

As of December 31, 2005, we owned 35 single-tenant properties, representing approximately 191,000
leaseable square feet. Our single-tenant leases typically provide that the tenant bears
responsibility for substantially all property costs and expenses associated with ongoing
maintenance and operation of the property such as utilities, property taxes and insurance. Some of
the leases require that we will be responsible for roof and structural repairs. In these
instances, we normally require warranties and/or guarantees from the related vendors, suppliers
and/or contractors to mitigate the potential costs of repairs during the primary term of the lease.

Because our leases are entered into with or guaranteed by the corporate, parent tenant, they
typically do not limit the Company s recourse against the tenant and any guarantor in the event of
a default. For this reason, these leases are designated by us as  Credit Tenant Leases , because
they are supported by the assets of the entire company, not just the individual store location. 

The primary term of the single-tenant leases ranges from ten to 25 years. All of the leases also
provide for one to four, five-year renewal options. Annual rental income ranges from $61,000 to
$327,000 per year.

Land to be Developed 

As part of our investment objectives, we will invest in land to be developed on Irreplaceable
Corners. A typical investment in land to be developed will result in a six to 12 month holding
period, followed by the execution of a
ground lease with a national or regional retail tenant or by the development of a single-tenant
property or multi-tenant strip center. During 2005, we completed the development of two sites, as
further discussed below. As of

21

Table of Contents   

December 31, 2005, we
have no land that we plan to develop within
our portfolio.

In 2005, we completed the development of 410 and Blanco, a 1.329 acre pad site located at the
intersection of Loop 410 and Blanco Road in San Antonio, Texas, and entered into a ground lease on
this property with Citibank. We also completed Research Forest @ Six Pines, a 1.608 acre pad site
located at the intersection of Research Forest and Six Pines, in The Woodlands, Texas, and entered
into a ground lease on this property with Comerica Bank.

Property Acquisitions and Dispositions 

Shopping Centers 

During 2005, AmREIT invested over $110 million through the acquisition of three shopping center
properties. The acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and the results of their operations
are included in the consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition.

On September 30, 2005, we acquired for cash The South Bank, a shopping center located on the San
Antonio Riverwalk in San Antonio, Texas. The property is located at the corner of a major downtown
intersection and is accessible from both the river and street levels. The property consists of
approximately 47,000 square-feet and has a weighted average remaining lease term of 5.26 years.
Tenants on the Property include, among others, Hard Rock Caf , Starbucks, Ben   Jerry s,
Harley-Davidson and The County Line Barbecue.

On June 1, 2005, we acquired Uptown Park, a 169,000 square foot lifestyle center located on
approximately 16.85 acres of land. The property is located on the northwest corner of Loop 610 and
Post Oak Boulevard in Houston, Texas in the heart of the Uptown Houston area. The property was
developed in two phases   phase one consists of approximately 147,000 square feet that was
constructed in 1999, and construction was recently completed on phase two which consists of
approximately 22,000 square feet. The property was funded with cash and the placement of long-term
fixed-rate debt. The cash portion of the purchase consideration was substantially funded by the net
proceeds from the offering of our class A common shares. The debt has a term of 10 years
and is payable interest-only to maturity at a fixed interest rate of 5.37% with the entire
principal amount due in 2015.

Additionally,
on December 15, 2005, we used the net proceeds from the sale of the single-tenant non-core assets discussed
below to acquire 39,000 square feet of multi-tenant retail projects located adjacent to the MacArthur
Park Shopping Center in Las Colinas, an affluent residential and business community in Dallas,
Texas. We purchased the MacArthur Park Shopping Center on December 27, 2004.

Single-tenant Properties 

During 2005, we sold ten single-tenant non-core properties for $16.6 million in cash to unrelated
third parties resulting in gains of $3.4 million. In addition, we completed the sale of six
single-tenant retail properties that were acquired for resale for a total of approximately $11.5
million in cash.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings  

The Company is not a party to any material pending legal proceedings.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

No matters were submitted to shareholders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year.

22

Table of Contents   

PART II 

Item 5.   

        Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

As of March 21, 2006, there were approximately 737 holders of record for 6,513,541 of the Company s
class A common shares outstanding on such date, net of 102,666 shares held in treasury. AmREIT s
class A common shares are listed on the American Stock Exchange ( AMEX ) and traded under the
symbol  AMY.  The following table sets forth for the calendar periods indicated high and low sale
prices per class A common share as reported on the AMEX and the dividends paid per share for the
two year period ended December 31, 2005.

The payment of any future dividends on its class A common shares by AmREIT is dependent upon
applicable legal and contractual restrictions, including the provisions of the class B and C common
shares, as well as AmREIT s earnings and financial needs.

Class B Common Shares    As of March 21, 2006, there were approximately 1,036 holders of
record for 2,114,531 of the Company s class B common shares. The class B common shares are not
listed on an exchange and there is currently no available trading market for the class B common
shares. The class B common shares have voting rights, together with all classes of common shares,
as one class of stock. The class B common shares were issued at $9.25 per share. They receive a
fixed 8.0% cumulative and preferred annual dividend, paid in quarterly installments, and are
convertible into the class A common shares on a one-for-one basis at any time, at the holder s
option. Beginning in July 2005, we have the right to call the shares and, at the holder s option,
either convert them on a one-for-one basis for class A shares or redeem them for $10.18 per share
in cash plus any accrued and unpaid dividends.

Class C Common Shares    As of March 21, 2006, there were approximately 1,304 holders of
record for 4,131,817 of the Company s class C common shares. The class C common shares are not
listed on an exchange and there is currently no available trading market for the class C common
shares. The class C common shares have voting rights, together with all classes of common shares,
as one class of stock. The class C common shares were issued at $10.00 per share. They receive a
fixed 7.0% preferred annual dividend, paid in monthly installments, and are convertible into the
class A common shares after a 7-year lock out period based on 110% of invested capital, at the
holder s option. After three years and beginning in August 2006, subject to the issuance date of
the respective shares, we have the right to force conversion of the shares into class A shares at
the 10% conversion premium or to redeem the shares at a cash redemption price of $11.00 per share.
Currently, there is a class C dividend reinvestment program that allows investors to reinvest their
dividends into additional

23

Table of Contents   

class C common shares. These reinvested shares are also convertible into the class A common shares
after the 7-year lock out period and receive the 10% conversion premium upon conversion. As of
March 21, 2006, 872 holders are participating in the dividend reinvestment plan.

Class D Common Shares    As of March 21, 2006, there were approximately 3,539 holders of
record for 11,032,852 of the Company s class D common shares. The class D common shares are not
listed on an exchange and there is currently no available trading market for the class D common
shares. The class D common shares have voting rights, together with all classes of common shares,
as one class of stock. The class D common shares were issued at $10.00 per share. They receive a
fixed 6.5% annual dividend, paid in monthly installments, subject to payment of dividends then
payable to class B and class C common shares. The class D common shares are convertible into the
class A common shares at a 7.7% premium on original capital after a 7-year lock out period, at the
holder s option. After one year and beginning in July 2005, subject to the issuance date of the
respective shares, we have the right to force conversion of the shares into class A shares at the
7.7% conversion premium or to redeem the shares at a cash price of $10.00. In either case, the
conversion premium will be pro rated based on the number of years the shares are outstanding.
Currently, there is a class D dividend reinvestment program that allows investors to reinvest their
dividends into additional class D common shares. These reinvested shares are also convertible into
the class A common shares after the 7-year lock out period and receive the 7.7% conversion premium
upon conversion. As of March 21, 2006, 2,524 holders are participating in the dividend
reinvestment plan.

24

Table of Contents   

Item 6. Selected Financial Data  

The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data with respect to AmREIT and
should be read in conjunction with  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,  the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes
in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  and the financial schedule included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

AmREIT 
Selected Historical 
Consolidated Financial and Other Data 

25

Table of Contents   

(1) AmREIT has adopted the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) definition of FFO. FFO is calculated as net
income (computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) excluding gains or losses from sales of depreciable operating
property, depreciation and amortization of real estate assets, and excluding results defined as  extraordinary items  under generally accepted
accounting principles. The Company considers FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by
excluding gains or losses on dispositions and excluding depreciation, FFO is a helpful tool that can assist in the comparison of the operating
performance of a company s real estate between periods, or as compared to different companies. FFO should not be considered an alternative
to cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities in accordance with general accepted accounting principles and is not necessarily
indicative of cash available to meet cash needs. AmREIT s computation of FFO may differ from the methodology for calculating FFO utilized
by other equity REITs and, therefore, may not be comparable to such other REITS. FFO is not defined by generally accepted accounting
principles and should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of AmREIT s performance, or of cash flows as a measure
of liquidity. Please see reconciliation of Net Income to FFO in Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations . For the year ended December 31, 2004, FFO includes an impairment charge of $2.4 million related to two single-tenant, non-core
assets. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, FFO includes deferred merger costs of $1.7 million, $915 thousand and $1.9 million
resulting from shares issued to our CEO from the sale of his advisory company to AmREIT in June 1998.

(2) Operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 include a charge of $1.7 million, $915 thousand and $1.9
million, respectively, resulting from shares issued to our CEO as deferred merger cost stemming from the sale of his advisory company to
AmREIT in June 1998.

(3) Income from discontinued operations in 2004 includes an impairment charge of $2.4 million, resulting from two asset impairments and
corresponding write-downs of value.

(4) Revenues and operating expenses for 2004 and 2003 have been reduced to reflect as issuance costs the capital-raising activities of our
securities operations related to our class C and class D common shares. These reclassifications had no impact on our net income for either of these
periods.

26

Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  

Forward-Looking Statements 

Certain information presented in this Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking
statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, the Company s actual results could differ
materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Certain factors that might cause
such a difference include the following: changes in general economic conditions, changes in real
estate market conditions, continued availability of proceeds from the Company s debt or equity
capital, the ability of the Company to locate suitable tenants for its properties, the ability of
tenants to make payments under their respective leases, timing of acquisitions, development starts
and sales of properties and the ability to meet development schedules.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements
and notes thereto and the comparative summary of selected financial data appearing elsewhere in
this report. Historical results and trends which might appear should not be taken as indicative of
future operations.

Executive Overview 

AmREIT (the  Company ) (AMEX: AMY) is an established real estate company that at its core is a
value creator which has delivered results to our investors for 21 years and has elected to be taxed
as a real estate investment trust ( REIT ) for federal income tax purposes. Our mission is to build
a real estate business that can realize profitable growth year over year regardless of market
cycles. We have developed three distinct businesses that provide earnings power from multiple
sources. First, as a  real estate development and operating company , we provide value through
offering an array of services to our tenants and properties, to our asset advisory group s
portfolios and to third parties. Second, our  asset advisory group
 broadens our avenues to
capital and raises private equity for a series of merchant development
partnership funds. And third, we own an  institutional-grade portfolio of  Irreplaceable Corners     
premier retail properties in high-traffic, highly populated areas   which are held for long-term
value and provide a foundation to our FFO growth through a steady stream of rental
income. These three business segments have grown into self-sustaining operations that add value to
the overall Company. These operations give us the flexibility to achieve our financial objectives
over the long-term as we navigate the changing market cycles that come our way.

As of December 31, 2005, we have over 1.3 million square feet of shopping centers in various stages
of development or in the pipeline for our advisory group and for third parties. Since listing on
the AMEX in July 2002, our total assets have grown from a book value of $48 million to $315
million, including 49 properties located in 15 states. Within our asset advisory business we manage
an additional $129 million in assets, representing 21 properties in 3 states, and equity within our
asset advisory group has grown from $15 million to $61 million.

Real Estate Development and Operating Group 

Our real estate development and operating business, AmREIT Realty Investment Corporation and
subsidiaries ( ARIC ), is a fully integrated and wholly-owned business, consisting of brokers and
real estate professionals that provide development, acquisition, brokerage, leasing, construction,
general contracting, asset and property management services to our portfolio of properties, to our
asset advisory group, and to third parties. This operating subsidiary, which is a taxable REIT
subsidiary, is a transaction-oriented subsidiary that is very active in the real estate market and
generates profits and fees on an annual basis. This business can provide significant

27

Table of Contents   

long-term and annual growth; however, its quarter to quarter results will fluctuate, and therefore
its contributions to our quarterly earnings will be volatile.

Asset Advisory Group 

The part of our business model and operating strategy that distinguishes us from other
publicly-traded REITs is our asset advisory business, or AmREIT Securities Company (ASC), a
National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) registered broker-dealer which is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of ARIC. For the past 21 years, we have been raising private capital for our merchant
development funds and building relationships in the financial planning and broker-dealer community,
earning fees and sharing in profits from those activities. Historically, our advisory group has
raised capital in two ways: first, directly for AmREIT through non-traded classes of common
shares, and second, for our actively managed merchant development partnership funds.

The asset advisory group invests in and actively manages five merchant development partnership
funds which were formed to develop, own, manage, and add value to properties with an average
holding period of two to four years. We invest as both the general partner and as a limited
partner, and our in-house securities group sells limited partnership interests in these partnership
funds to retail investors. We, as the general partner, manage the partnerships and, in return,
receive management fees as well as potentially significant profit participation interests.
However, we strive to create a structure that aligns the interests of our shareholders with those
of our limited partners. In this spirit, the partnerships are structured so that the general
partner receives a significant profit only after the limited partners in the funds have received
their targeted return which links our success to that of the limited partners.

Portfolio of Irreplaceable Corners 

Our portfolio consists primarily of premier retail properties typically located on  Main and Main 
intersections in high-traffic, highly populated affluent areas. Because of their location and
exposure as central gathering places, we believe that these centers
will continue to attract well-established tenants
and can withstand the test of time, providing our shareholders a steady rental income stream.

During 2005, we acquired approximately 255,000 square feet of multi-tenant shopping centers,
representing over $110 million in assets at an average cap rate of 6.8%. We take a very hands-on
approach to ownership, and directly manage the operations and leasing
at all of our wholly-owned
properties.

As of December 31, 2005, we owned a real estate portfolio consisting of 49 properties located in 15
states. The areas where a majority of our properties are located are densely populated, urban
communities in and around Houston, Dallas and San Antonio. Within these broad markets, we target
locations that we believe have the best demographics and highest long term value. We refer to
these properties as  Irreplaceable Corners . Our criteria for an Irreplaceable Corner includes:
high barriers to entry (typically infill locations in established communities without significant
raw land available for development), significant population within a three mile radius (typically
in excess of 100,000 people), located on the hard corner of an intersection guided by a traffic
signal, ideal average household income in excess of $80,000 per year, strong visibility and
significant traffic counts passing by the location (typically in excess of 30,000 cars per day).
We believe that centers with these characteristics will provide for consistent leasing demand and
rents that increase at or above the rate of inflation. Additionally, these areas have barriers to
entry for competitors seeking to develop new properties due to the lack of available land.

We expect that single-tenant, credit leased properties, will continue to experience cap rate
pressure during 2006 due to the low interest rate environment and increased buyer demand.
Therefore, we will continue to divest of properties which no longer meet our core criteria, and, to
the extent that we can do so accretively in the current seller s market, replace them with
high-quality grocery-anchored, lifestyle, and multi-tenant shopping centers or the development of

28

Table of Contents   

single-tenant properties located on Irreplaceable Corners. Each potential acquisition is
subjected to a rigorous due diligence process that includes site inspections, financial
underwriting, credit analysis and market and demographic studies. Therefore, there can be no
assurance that any or all of these projects will ultimately be purchased by AmREIT. Management has
budgeted for an increase in interest rates during 2006. As of December 31, 2005, all of our
outstanding debt had a long-term fixed interest rate with an average term of 7.7 years. Our
philosophy continues to be matching long-term leases with long-term debt structures while keeping
our debt to total assets ratio less than 55%.

Summary of Critical Accounting Policies 

The results of operations and financial condition of the Company, as reflected in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements and related footnotes, are subject to management s evaluation and
interpretation of business conditions, retailer performance, changing capital market conditions and
other factors, which could affect the ongoing viability of the Company s tenants. Management
believes the most critical accounting policies in this regard are revenue recognition, the regular
evaluation of whether the value of a real estate asset has been impaired, the allowance for
uncollectible accounts and accounting for real estate acquisitions. We evaluate our assumptions
and estimates on an on-going basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various
other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on the circumstances.

Revenue Recognition    We lease space to tenants under agreements with varying terms. The
majority of the leases are accounted for as operating leases with revenue being recognized on a
straight-line basis over the terms of the individual leases. Accrued rents are included in tenant
receivables. Revenue from tenant reimbursements of taxes, maintenance expenses and insurance is
recognized in the period the related expense is recorded. Additionally, certain of the lease
agreements contain provisions that grant additional rents based on tenants  sales volumes
(contingent or percentage rent). Percentage rents are recognized when the tenants achieve the
specified targets as defined in their lease agreements. The terms of certain leases require that
the building/improvement portion of the lease be accounted for under the direct financing method.
Such method requires that a portion of such cash flows be recognized as earned income over the life
of the lease so as to produce a constant periodic rate of return.

We have been engaged to provide various services, including development, construction, construction
management, property management, leasing and brokerage. The fees for these services are recognized
as services are provided and are generally calculated as a percentage of revenues earned or to be
earned or of property cost, as appropriate. Revenues from fixed-price construction contracts are
recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, measured by the physical completion of the
structure. Revenues from cost-plus-percentage-fee contracts are recognized on the basis of costs
incurred during the period plus the percentage fee earned on those costs. Construction management
contracts are recognized only to the extent of the fee revenue.

Construction contract costs include all direct material and labor costs and any indirect costs
related to contract performance. Provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are made
in the period in which such losses are determined. Changes in job performance, job conditions, and
estimated profitability, including those arising from any contract penalty provisions, and final
contract settlements may result in revisions to costs and income and are recognized in the period
in which the revisions are determined. Any profit incentives are included in revenues when their
realization is reasonably assured. An amount equal to contract costs attributable to any claims is
included in revenues when realization is probable and the amount can be reliably estimated.

Unbilled construction receivables represent reimbursable costs and amounts earned under contracts
in progress as of the date of our balance sheet. Such amounts become billable according to
contract terms, which usually

29

Table of Contents   

consider the passage of time, achievement of certain milestones or
completion of the project. Advance billings represent billings to or collections from clients on
contracts in advance of revenues earned thereon. Unbilled construction receivables are generally
billed and collected within the twelve months following the date of our balance sheet, and advance
billings are generally earned within the twelve months following the date of our balance sheet.

Securities commission income is recognized as units of our merchant development funds are sold
through AmREIT Securities Company. Securities commission income is earned as the services are
performed and pursuant to the corresponding prospectus or private offering memorandum. Generally,
it includes a selling commission of between 6.5% and 7.5%, a dealer manager fee of between 2.5% and
3.25% and offering and organizational costs of 1.0% to 1.50%. The selling commission is then paid
out to the unaffiliated selling broker dealer and reflected as securities commission expense.

Real Estate Valuation    Land, buildings and improvements are recorded at cost.
Expenditures related to the development of real estate are carried at cost which includes
capitalized carrying charges, acquisition costs and development costs. Carrying charges, primarily
interest and loan acquisition costs, and direct and indirect development costs related to buildings
under construction are capitalized as part of construction in progress. The capitalization of such
costs ceases at the earlier of one year from the date of completion of major construction or when
the property, or any completed portion, becomes available for occupancy. The Company capitalizes
acquisition costs once the acquisition of the property becomes probable. Prior to that time, the
Company expenses these costs as acquisition expenses. Depreciation is computed using the
straight-line method over an estimated useful life of up to 50 years for buildings, up to 20 years
for site improvements and over the term of lease for tenant improvements. Leasehold estate
properties, where the Company owns the building and improvements but not the related ground, are
amortized over the life of the lease.

Management reviews its properties for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of the assets, including accrued rental income, may not be
recoverable through operations. Management determines whether an impairment in value occurred by
comparing the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges), including
the residual value of the property, with the carrying value of
the individual property. If impairment is indicated, a loss will be recorded for the amount by
which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value.

Valuation of Receivables    An allowance for the uncollectible portion of accrued rents,
property receivables and accounts receivable is determined based upon an analysis of balances
outstanding, historical payment history, tenant credit worthiness, additional guarantees and other
economic trends. Balances outstanding include base rents, tenant reimbursements and receivables
attributed to the accrual of straight line rents. Additionally, estimates of the expected recovery
of pre-petition and post-petition claims with respect to tenants in bankruptcy are considered in
assessing the collectibility of the related receivables.

Real Estate Acquisitions    We account for real estate acquisitions pursuant to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 141,  Business Combinations  ( SFAS 141 ). Accordingly, we
allocate the purchase price of the acquired properties to land, building and improvements,
identifiable intangible assets and to the acquired liabilities based on their respective fair
values. Identifiable intangibles include amounts allocated to
acquired out-of-market leases, the value of in-place leases and customer relationships, if any. We determine fair value based on estimated cash flow projections
that utilize appropriate discount and capitalization rates and available market information.
Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including the historical operating
results, known trends and specific market and economic conditions that may affect the property.
Factors considered by management in our analysis of determining the as-if-vacant property value
include an estimate of carrying costs during the expected lease-up

30

Table of Contents   

periods considering market
conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, management includes
real estate taxes, insurance and estimates of lost rentals at market rates during the expected
lease-up periods, tenant demand and other economic conditions. Management also estimates costs to
execute similar leases including leasing commissions, tenant improvements, legal and other related
expenses. Intangibles related to out-of-market leases and in-place lease value are recorded as
acquired lease intangibles and are amortized as an adjustment to rental revenue or amortization
expense, as appropriate, over the remaining terms of the underlying leases. Premiums or discounts
on acquired out-of-market debt are amortized to interest expense over the remaining term of such
debt.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company s cash and cash equivalents totaled $5.9 million and
$3.0 million, respectively. Cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and
financing activities for the three years ended December 31, are as follows (in thousands):

Cash flows from operating activities and financing activities have been the principal sources of
capital to fund our ongoing operations and dividends. Our cash on hand, internally-generated cash flow, borrowings under our existing credit
facilities, issuance of equity securities, as well as the placement of secured debt and other
equity alternatives, are expected to provide the necessary capital to maintain and operate our
properties as well as execute our growth strategies.

Additionally, as part of our investment strategy, we constantly evaluate our property portfolio,
systematically selling off any non-core or underperforming assets, and replacing them with
Irreplaceable Corners TM  and other core assets. As we continue to raise capital, we
anticipate increasing our operating cash flow by selling the underperforming assets and deploying
the capital generated into high-quality income-producing retail real estate assets. During 2004,
this was evidenced through our acquisition of approximately 500,000 square feet of multi-tenant
shopping centers, representing over $100 million in assets. Each of the five centers purchased
during 2004 was a premier frontage property located on an intersection in highly populated,
high-traffic, affluent areas. During 2005, we further executed this strategy through the
acquisition of over $110 million of multi-tenant centers, comprising three premier properties with
approximately 255,000 square feet. We completed our acquisition of Uptown Park, a 169,000 square
foot multi-tenant shopping center, in June 2005, and our acquisition of The South Bank, a 47,000
square foot multi-tenant retail center located on the San Antonio Riverwalk, in September 2005.
Additionally, in December 2005 we used the net proceeds from our sale of eight single-tenant
non-core assets to acquire 39,000 square feet of multi-tenant retail
projects located adjacent to our
MacArthur Park Shopping Center in Las Colinas, an affluent residential and business community in
Dallas, Texas.

In June 2004, we began marketing our class D common share offering, a $170 million
publicly-registered, non-traded common share offering, offered through the independent financial
planning community. We have utilized the proceeds from the sale of the class D shares primarily to
pay down debt and to acquire additional properties. We determined during the third quarter of 2005
that we were in position to meet our real estate acquisition goals for the year with our existing
capital. We therefore closed our class D common share offering after having raised

31

Table of Contents   

approximately
$110 million, including shares issued through the dividend reinvestment program.

Cash provided by operating activities as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
increased by $6.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 when compared to the year ended
December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $4.7 million in our
income before the effect of gains on property sales, depreciation and amortization, impairment
charges and merger costs during 2005 compared to 2004. This increase was driven by the significant
multi-tenant property acquisitions made during the second half of 2004 as well as the 2005
acquisitions   Uptown Park in June 2005 and The South Bank in September 2005. Another driver of
this increase was our 2005 activities related to real estate acquired for resale. On the
acquisition side, we invested $1.7 million less in such real estate due to the continued
compression of single-tenant cap rates during 2005. In turn, we generated increased proceeds of
$4.8 million over 2004 from the sale of real estate acquired for resale in order to capitalize on
these compressed single-tenant cap rates. During 2005, we sold six properties for aggregate
proceeds of $11.5 million, whereas during 2004, we sold three properties for aggregate proceeds of
$6.7 million. These increases were partially offset by a $5.9 million reduction in working capital
cash flow resulting from timing differences between the revenue and expense accruals and their
related cash receipts or payments.

Cash flows from investing activities as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
increased from a net investing outflow of $99.8 million in 2004 to a net investing outflow of
$107.5 million in 2005. This $7.7 million increase in investing outflows is attributable to an
increase of $6.3 million in acquisitions of investment properties during 2005 coupled with loans
made to certain affiliates during 2005 of $11.2 million. These increases in investing outflows
were partially offset by a $10.8 million increase in proceeds from the sale of investment property.
We acquired over $110 million of property in 2005 versus approximately $104 million in 2004. As
discussed above, our 2005 acquisitions include our Uptown Park acquisition on June 1, 2005, our
acquisition of The South Bank on September 30, 2005 and our follow-on acquisition of the MacArthur
Park pad sites on December 15, 2005 which are adjacent to our MacArthur Park Shopping Center, one
of our 2004 acquisitions. Uptown Park is a 169,000 square foot lifestyle center located in
Houston, Texas in the Galleria shopping district. Uptown Park was funded with fixed-rate debt and
cash, substantially all of which was generated by the offering of our class A common
shares as further described below. The South Bank, a 47,000 square foot multi-tenant center
located on the San Antonio Riverwalk, was purchased for cash. With respect to loans made to
affiliates, during 2005, we loaned $11.2
million to two of our affiliates as part of our treasury management function whereby we placed
excess cash in a short term bridge loan for these affiliates related to the acquisition or
development of properties. We typically provide such financing to our affiliates as a way of
efficiently deploying our excess cash and earning a higher return than we would in other short term
investments or overnight funds. In most cases, the funds have a construction lender in place, and
we simply step in as the lender and provide financing on the same terms as the third party lender.
In so doing, we are able to access these funds as needed by having our affiliate then draw down on
their construction loans. These loans bear a market rate of interest and are due upon demand.
With respect to the increase in proceeds from the sale of investment property, during 2005, we sold
ten properties held for investment, generating proceeds from sale of $16.6 million; however, during
2004, we sold two properties held for investment, generating proceeds from sale of $5.9 million.

Cash flows provided by financing activities increased from $93.5 million during the 2004 period to
$96.4 million during the 2005 period. This $2.9 million increase was primarily attributable to an
increase of $56.7 million in equity proceeds (net of issuance costs) which was substantially offset
by a reduction in debt proceeds of $51.4 million during the year and an increase in dividends to
shareholders of $2.7 million during the year. Equity proceeds of $97.6 million, net of issuance
costs, were generated during 2005. These proceeds, as further described below, allowed us to fully
pay down our line of credit which had a $38.0 million balance at yearend 2004. Further, such
proceeds allowed us to purchase The South Bank and the MacArthur Park pad sites for cash, thereby
reducing the amount of debt proceeds that would otherwise have been required to consummate these
transactions. We placed $49.0 million of fixed-rate debt in conjunction with our acquisition of
Uptown Park in June 2005 which represents our only debt placement during 2005. Dividends paid to
shareholders increased during the period due to the

32

Table of Contents   

increase in the number of class D common
shareholders during 2004 and 2005.

The
$97.6 million net equity proceeds were raised through the offering of 2.76 million of
our class A common shares, including 360,000 over-allotment shares exercised by the underwriters as
well as through our class D common share offering, a $170 million offering which was being offered
through the independent financial planning community. The class A common share offering was priced
at $8.10, and the net proceeds of the offering, after underwriting discounts, commissions and
offering expenses, were approximately $20.4 million. The balance of the capital was raised through
our class D offering which we closed during the third quarter of 2005 as described above.

The Company has an unsecured credit facility (the  Credit Facility ) in place which is being used
to provide funds for the acquisition of properties and working capital. The Credit Facility
matures in November 2007 and provides that the Company may borrow up to $40 million subject to the
value of unencumbered assets. Effective November 2005, the Company renewed its Credit Facility on
terms and conditions substantially the same as the previous facility. The Credit Facility contains
covenants which, among other restrictions, require the Company to maintain a minimum net worth, a
maximum leverage ratio, maximum tenant concentration ratios, specified interest coverage and fixed
charge coverage ratios. At December 31, 2005,
the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants. The Credit Facility s annual
interest rate varies depending upon the Company s debt to asset ratio, from LIBOR plus a spread of
1.35% to LIBOR plus a spread of 2.35%. As of December 31, 2005, the interest rate was LIBOR plus
1.55%. As of December 31, 2005, there was no balance outstanding under the Credit Facility. The
Company has approximately $38.0 million available under its line of credit, subject to the covenant
provisions discussed above and lender approval on the use of the proceeds. In addition to the
credit facility, AmREIT utilizes various permanent mortgage financing and other debt instruments.

Contractual Obligations 

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had the following contractual debt obligations (see also Note
7 the consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding the specific terms of our
debt):

* 
       
     Interest expense does not include any interest obligation on our revolving credit facility
as we have no balance outstanding on the facility as of December 31, 2005. This table assumes that
we will continue to have no balance outstanding throughout all periods presented. Our revolving
credit facility is a variable-rate debt instrument, and the outstanding balance tends to fluctuate
throughout the year based on our liquidity needs. 

** 
       
     Subsequent to December 31, 2005, we paid the 5.46% dissenter notes in full. 

*** 
       
     Secured debt as shown above is $1.1 million less than total secured debt as reported due to the
premium recorded on above-market debt assumed in conjunction with certain of our property
acquisitions. 

During 2005, we paid dividends to our shareholders of $11.8 million, compared with $6.0
million in 2004. The class A, C and D shareholders receive monthly dividends and the class B
shareholders receive quarterly dividends. All dividends are declared on a quarterly basis. The
dividends by class follow (in thousands):

33

Table of Contents   

Until properties are acquired by the Company, the Company s funds are used to pay down outstanding
debt under the Credit Facility. Thereafter, any excess cash is provided first to our affiliates in the form of
short-term bridge financing for development or acquisition of properties and then is invested in
short-term investments or overnight funds. This investment strategy allows us to manage our
interest costs and provides us with the liquidity to acquire properties at such time as those
suitable for acquisition are located.

Inflation has had very little effect on income from operations. Management expects that increases
in store sales volumes due to inflation as well as increases in the Consumer Price Index, may
contribute to capital appreciation of the Company properties. These factors, however, also may have
an adverse impact on the operating margins of the tenants of the properties.

Results of Operations 

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2005 to the year ended December 31, 2004 

Total revenues increased by $19.4 million or 127% in 2005 as compared to 2004 ($34.7 million in
2005 versus $15.3 million in 2004). Rental revenues increased by $12.3 million, or 120%, in 2005
as compared to 2004. This increase is attributable to the significant property acquisitions that we
made in the second half of 2004 as well as the acquisitions of Uptown Park in June 2005 and of The
South Bank in September 2005. Real estate fee income increased approximately $3.2 million, or
174%, primarily as a result of increased brokerage commissions as well as acquisition and
development fees earned on property transactions within our retail partnerships.

During the first quarter of 2005, AmREIT Construction Company (ACC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
ARIC, was formed to provide construction services to third parties as well as to our merchant
development funds. ACC began executing on contracts during the quarter ended June 30, 2005 and
recognized $4.7 million in revenues associated with those contracts during 2005, approximately
$130,000 of which represents fee income on construction management contracts. Such revenues have
been recognized under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting.

Securities commission revenue decreased by $1.6 million or 58% in 2005 as compared to 2004. This
decrease was driven by a decrease in the amount of merchant development fund capital raised through
our asset advisory group during 2005 versus 2004. During 2004, we raised $25.4 million for AmREIT
Monthly Income and Growth Fund II, L.P. During 2005, we raised $11.2 million for AmREIT Monthly
Income and Growth Fund III, L.P. This decrease in commission income was partially offset by a
corresponding decrease in commission expense paid to other third party broker-dealer firms. As we
raise capital for our affiliated merchant

34

Table of Contents   

development partnerships, we earn a securities commission
of between 8% and 10.5% of the money raised. These commission revenues are then offset by
commission payments to non-affiliated brokerdealer of between 8% and 9%.

Expenses 

Total operating expenses increased by $11.0 million, or 83%, from $13.3 million in 2004 to $24.3
million 2005. This increase was primarily attributable to increases in property expense,
construction costs and depreciation and amortization, coupled with smaller increases in general and
administrative expenses. These expense increases were partially offset by a reduction in securities
commissions of $1.2 million as well as a reduction in deferred merger charges of $1.7 million.

General and administrative expense increased by $1.7 million, or 36%, during 2005 to $6.4 million
compared to $4.7 million in 2004. This increase is primarily due to increases in personnel. The
Company increased its total number of employees during 2004 and has continued to do so throughout
2005 in order appropriately match our resources with the growth in our portfolio as well as in our
real estate operating and development activities.

Property expense increased $3.4 million or 243% in 2005 as compared to 2004 ($4.9 million in 2005
versus $1.4 million in 2004) primarily as a result of the significant property acquisitions made
during 2004 as well as the acquisitions of Uptown Park in June 2005 and The South Bank in September
2005.

As discussed above in   Revenues,   ACC was formed in the first quarter of 2005 to provide
construction services and began executing on contracts during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. ACC
recognized $4.3 million in construction costs during 2005.

Commission expense decreased by $1.2 million or 58% from $2.1 million in 2004 to $864,000 in 2005.
This decrease is attributable to reduced capital-raising activity through ASC during 2005 as
discussed in   Revenues   above.

Depreciation and amortization increased by $4.2 million, or 233%, to $6.0 million in 2005 compared
to $1.8 million in 2004. The increased depreciation and amortization is attributable to the
significant property acquisitions made during 2004 and 2005 as discussed above.

Deferred merger costs were $1.7 million in 2004 whereas no such charges were recognized in 2005.
The 2004 deferred merger costs were related to deferred consideration payable to H. Kerr Taylor,
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as a result of the acquisition of our
advisor in 1998, which was owned by Mr. Taylor. In connection with the acquisition, Mr. Taylor
agreed to payment for this advisory company in the form of common shares, paid as the Company
increased its outstanding equity. Mr. Taylor received 900,000 class A common shares pursuant to
this arrangement, the final installment of which was issued to him during 2004.

Other 

Interest expense increased by $3.1 million, or 95%, from $3.3 million in 2004 to $6.4 million in
2005. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to the debt that we assumed in the second
half of 2004 related to our property acquisitions as well as the debt we placed in conjunction with
our June 2005 Uptown Park acquisition. We assumed a total of $44.8 million in debt, net of a
premium of $1.4 million, as a result of the 2004 property acquisitions and placed $49.0 million of
debt in connection with the Uptown Park acquisition in 2005.

Income from merchant development funds and other affiliates decreased by $960,000, or 86%, to
$161,000 in 2005.

35

Table of Contents   

During 2004, we realized $869,000 of profit participation from our general
partner interest in AOF, one of our merchant development funds which is currently in liquidation.
No such amounts were realized during 2005.

Results of Operations 

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2004 to the year ended December 31, 2003 

Revenues 

Total revenues increased by $7.9 million or 107% in 2004 as compared to 2003 ($15.3 million in 2004
versus $7.4 million in 2003). Rental revenues increased by $5.6 million or 121% in 2004 as
compared to 2003. Of this increase, $3.2 million is related to rental revenues from properties
that we acquired during the year. In addition, $1.8 million of the increase in rental revenues is
related to a full year of rental revenue recorded during 2004 from the properties that were
acquired in 2003. Additionally, portfolio occupancy at December 31, 2004 was 96.6%, which is an
increase compared to 2003 occupancy of 92.4%.

Securities commission income generated through the Company s asset advisory group increased by $1.2
million or 83% in 2004 as compared to 2003. This increase in securities commission income is due
to increased capital being raised through our broker-dealer company, AmREIT Securities Company
(ASC). As ASC raises capital for either AmREIT or its merchant development funds, ASC earns a
securities commission of between 8% and 10.5% of the money raised. During 2004, ASC raised
approximately $25.4 million for the merchant development funds, as compared to approximately $14.4
million during 2003. This increase in commission income was partially offset by a corresponding
increase in commission expense paid to other third party broker-dealer firms.

Expenses 

General and administrative expense increased by $1.6 million, or 52%, during 2004 to $4.7 million
compared to
$3.1 million in 2003. This increase is primarily due to increases in personnel necessitated by the
growth in the portfolio as well as an increase in property costs. During the year, the Company
increased its total number of employees by 54% which resulted in an increase in compensation
expense of $1.4 million. By building our various teams, we have not only been able to grow revenue
and Funds From Operations, but believe that we will be able to sustain and further enhance our
growth.

Property expense increased $1.0 million or 265% in 2004 as compared to 2003 ($1.4 million in 2004
versus $388 thousand in 2003) primarily as a result of the significant property acquisitions made
during 2004.

Commission expense increased by $1.0 million or 84% from $1.1 million in 2003 to $2.1 million in
2004. This increase is attributable to increased capital-raising activity for the merchant
development funds through ASC during 2004 as discussed in   Revenues   above.

Depreciation and amortization increased by $1.3 million, or 262%, to $1.8 million in 2004 compared
to $502 thousand in 2003. The increased depreciation and amortization is related to the
significant property acquisitions made during 2004.

Deferred merger costs increased by $767,000, or 84%, to $1.7 million in 2004 compared to $915,000
in 2003. The deferred merger cost is related to deferred consideration payable to H. Kerr Taylor,
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as a result of the acquisition of our
advisor in 1998, which was owned by Mr. Taylor. In connection with the acquisition, Mr. Taylor
agreed to payment for this advisory company in the form of common shares, paid as the Company
increased its outstanding equity.

Other 

Income from non-consolidated affiliates increased by $809,000 or 259%, to $1.1 million in 2004.
This increase is

36

Table of Contents   

primarily attributable to $869,000 recognized from our general partner interest in
AOF, one of our merchant development partnerships which is currently in liquidation.

Interest expense increased by $1.2 million, or 58%, to $3.3 million in 2004 from $2.1 million in
2003. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to the assumption of debt associated with
the property acquisitions during the year. We assumed a total of $44.8 in debt, net of a premium
of $1.4 million, as a result of these 2004 property acquisitions.

Gain on real estate acquired for re-sale increased $1.0 million to $1.8 million in 2004 from
$787,000 in 2003. The gain recognized in 2004 is a result of selling three properties, two of
which were acquired during 2003 and one which was acquired in 2004 with the intent to resell after
a short holding period.

Funds From Operations 

AmREIT considers FFO to be an appropriate measure of the operating performance of an equity REIT.
The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines funds from operations
(FFO) as net income (loss) computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP), excluding gains or losses from sales of property, plus real estate related depreciation and
amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. In
addition, NAREIT recommends that extraordinary items not be considered in arriving at FFO. AmREIT
calculates its FFO in accordance with this definition. Most industry analysts and equity REITs,
including AmREIT, consider FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance
because, by excluding gains or losses on dispositions and excluding depreciation, FFO is a helpful
tool that can assist in the comparison of the operating performance of a company s real estate
between
periods, or as compared to different companies. Management uses FFO as a supplemental measure to
conduct and evaluate our business because there are certain limitations associated with using GAAP
net income by itself as the primary measure of our operating performance. Historical cost
accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real
estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically
risen or fallen with market conditions, management believes that the presentation of operating
results for real estate companies that uses historical cost accounting is insufficient by itself.
There can be no assurance that FFO presented by AmREIT is comparable to similarly titled measures
of other REITs. FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income or other measurements
under GAAP as an indicator of our operating performance or to cash flows from operating, investing
or financing activities as a measure of liquidity.

Below is the calculation of FFO and the reconciliation to net income, which the Company believes is
the most comparable GAAP financial measure to FFO, in thousands:

For the
year ended December 31, 2004, FFO includes an impairment charge of $2.4 million related to two single-tenant, non-core
assets. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
FFO includes deferred merger costs of $1.7 million and
$915 thousand resulting from shares issued
to our CEO from the sale of his advisory company to AmREIT in June
1998.

37

Table of Contents   

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

We are exposed to interest-rate changes primarily related to the variable interest rate on our
credit facility and related to the refinancing of long-term debt which currently contains fixed
interest rates. Our interest-rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of
interest-rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To
achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates. We currently do not use
interest-rate swaps or any other derivative financial instruments as part of our interest-rate risk
management approach.

At December 31, 2005, approximately $114.7 million of our total debt obligations have fixed rate
terms and have an
estimated fair value of $117.3 million. Our revolving credit facility has variable rate terms.
However, as of December 31, 2005, there is no balance outstanding on the credit facility.
Accordingly, we are not exposed to interest-rate changes on this debt instrument at period end.

The discussion above considers only those exposures that exist as of December 31, 2005. It
therefore does not consider any exposures or positions that could arise after that date. As a
result, the ultimate impact to us of interest-rate fluctuations will depend upon the exposures that
arise during the period, any hedging strategies in place at that time and actual interest rates.

38

Table of Contents   

Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure  

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) and Chief
Financial Officer ( CFO ) management has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of
our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934) as of December 31, 2005. Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded
that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2005.

Changes in Internal Controls

There has been no change to our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended
December 31, 2005 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information  

Not applicable

39

Table of Contents   

PART III 

Item 10. Trust Managers and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

Information with respect to this Item is incorporated by reference from our Proxy Statement, which
we intend to file on or before April 30, 2006 in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on June 1, 2006.

Item 11. Executive Compensation  

Information with respect to this Item is incorporated by reference from our Proxy Statement, which
we intend to file on or before April 30, 2006 in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on June 1, 2006.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters  

We are authorized to grant stock options up to an aggregate of 1,422,335 shares of common stock
outstanding at any time as incentive stock options (intended to qualify under Section 422 of the
Code) or as options that are not intended to qualify as incentive stock options. All of our equity
compensation plans were approved by security holders. Information regarding our equity
compensation plans was as follows as of December 31, 2005:

(a) 
       
     (b) 
       
     (c) 

Number of securities 

remaining available for 

future issuances under 

equity compensation 

Number of securities 
       
     Weighted average 
       
     plans (excluding 

Plan 
       
     to be issued upon exercise of 
       
     exercise price of 
       
     securities reflected in 

Category 
       
     outstanding options 
       
     outstanding options 
       
     column (a)) 

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security holders.

1,422,335 

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security
holders.

TOTAL

1,422,335 

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  

Information with respect to this Item is incorporated by reference from our Proxy Statement, which
we intend to file on or before April 30, 2006 in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on June 1, 2006.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

Information with respect to this Item is incorporated by reference from our Proxy Statement, which
we intend to file on or before April 30, 2006 in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on June 1, 2006.

40

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements and Schedules  

41

Table of Contents   

* Filed herewith

 ** Furnished herewith

Items 5, 6, 7, 7A and 8 of Part II and Item 15 of Part IV of this Form 10-K contain the financial
statements, financial statement schedule and other financial information. No Annual Report or
proxy material has yet been provided to security holders with respect to 2006.

42

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf on the 31st of March 2006 by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

AmREIT 

/s/ H. Kerr Taylor 

H. Kerr Taylor, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

/s/ H. Kerr Taylor

March 31, 2006 

H. KERR TAYLOR

President, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Robert S. Cartwright, Jr.

March 31, 2006 

ROBERT S. CARTWRIGHT, JR., Trust Manager

/s/ G. Steven Dawson

March 31, 2006 

G. STEVEN DAWSON, Trust Manager

/s/ Philip W. Taggart

March 31, 2006 

PHILIP W. TAGGART, Trust Manager

/s/ Brett P. Treadwell

March 31, 2006 

BRETT P. TREADWELL, Vice President   Finance

(Principal Accounting Officer)

43

Table of Contents   

AmREIT AND SUBSIDIARIES 
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

All other financial statement schedules are omitted as the required information is either
inapplicable or is included in the financial statements or related notes.

F-1

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors and Shareholders 
AmREIT:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AmREIT and subsidiaries ( the
Company ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
shareholders  equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December
31, 2005. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, we have also
audited the related financial statement schedule. These consolidated financial statements and the
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing
audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. As such, we express no such
opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of AmREIT and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles .  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Houston,
Texas 
March 28, 2006

F-2

Table of Contents   

PART I   FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Item 1. Financial Statements 

AmREIT AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 
(in thousands, except share data) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-3

Table of Contents   

AmREIT AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
(in thousands, except per share data) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

AmREIT AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
For the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 
(in thousands, except share data) 

F-5

Table of Contents   

AmREIT AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(in thousands, except share data) 

Supplemental
schedule of noncash investing and financing activities:

In 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company converted 98 thousand, 116 thousand and 102
thousand B shares to A shares, respectively. Additionally, during
2005, 2004 and 2003
the Company issued Class C   D shares with a value of $4.9 million, $1.7 million
and $100 thousand, respectively, in satisfaction of dividends through the
dividend reinvestment program.

In 2005 the Company issued 165 thousand restricted shares to employees and trust
managers as part of their compensation plan. The restricted shares vest over a
four and three year period respectively. The Company recorded $1.3 million in
deferred compensation related to the issuance of the restricted shares.

In 2004 the Company issued 141 thousand restricted shares to employees and trust
managers as part of their compensation plan. The restricted shares vest over a
four and three year period respectively. The Company recorded $918 thousand in
deferred compensation related to the issuance of the restricted stock.

In 2003 the Company issued 24 thousand restricted shares to employees and trust
managers as part of their compensation plan. The restricted shares vest over a
four and three year period respectively. The Company recorded $153 thousand in
deferred compensation related to the issuance of the restricted stock.

In 2004 the Company assumed $44.8 million in debt (net of a premium of $1.4
million) related to the acquisition of investment properties.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

AmREIT AND SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND NATURE OF OPERATIONS 

AmREIT, a Texas real estate investment trust, is a real estate company with three distinct
businesses: a real estate development and operating business, an asset advisory business and a
portfolio of Irreplaceable Corners . As a real estate development and operating company, AmREIT
constructs, develops, acquires, disposes of, brokers, leases and manages properties for its own
portfolio as well as for its asset advisory group and third parties. As of December 31, 2005,
AmREIT had over 1.3 million square feet of shopping centers in various stages of development or in
the pipeline for its advisory group or for third parties. AmREIT s asset advisory group raises
private capital for and generates fees from its merchant development partnership funds. AmREIT s
portfolio of  Irreplaceable Corners  , provides a steady flow of rental income. It primarily
consists of retail properties located in high-traffic, highly populated areas   which are held for
long-term value. Since listing on the AMEX in July 2002, AmREIT s total assets have grown from a
book value of $48 million to $315 million, and equity within its asset advisory group has grown
from $15 million to $61 million.

AmREIT s direct predecessor, American Asset Advisers Trust, Inc., was formed as a Maryland
Corporation in 1993. American Asset Advisors Corp., our external advisor which was formed in 1985,
was merged into the Company in June 1998, at which time we changed our name to AmREIT, Inc. In
December 2002, we reorganized as a Texas real estate investment trust.

On July 23, 2002, the Company completed a merger with three of its affiliated partnerships, AAA Net
Realty Fund IX, Ltd., AAA Net Realty Fund X, Ltd., and AAA Net Realty Fund XI, Ltd. With the
merger of the affiliated partnerships, AmREIT increased its real estate assets by approximately
$24.3 million and issued approximately 2.6 million Class B common shares to the limited partners in
the affiliated partnerships. Approximately $760,000 in 8 year, interest only, subordinated notes
were issued to limited partners of the affiliated partnerships who dissented against the merger.
These notes were paid off subsequent to December 31, 2005. The acquired properties are
unencumbered, single tenant, free standing properties on lease to national and regional tenants,
where the lease is the direct obligation of the parent company.

A deferred merger expense resulted from the shares payable to H. Kerr Taylor, our President and
Chief Executive Officer, as a result of the merger, which shares represented a portion of
consideration payable to Mr. Taylor as a result of the sale of his advisory company to AmREIT. Mr.
Taylor earned approximately 143,000 shares during 2003 as a result of our class C common share
offering, resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings of approximately $915,000. During 2004, Mr.
Taylor earned an additional 241,000 shares under the deferred consideration agreement as a result
of the issuance of additional class C common shares, resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings of
$1.7 million. This share issuance in 2004 represented the final installment of shares owed to him
pursuant to the
agreement. To date, Mr. Taylor has received 900,000 class A common shares, and no further shares
will be issued under this arrangement.

F-7

Table of Contents   

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

The financial records of the Company are maintained on the accrual basis of accounting whereby
revenues are recognized when earned and expenses are recorded when incurred. The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of AmREIT and its wholly or majority owned
subsidiaries in which we have a controlling financial interest. Investments in joint ventures
and partnerships where we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but do not
exercise financial and operating control, are accounted for using the equity method. All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

We lease space to tenants under agreements with varying terms. The majority of the leases are
accounted for as operating leases with revenue being recognized on a straight-line basis over the
terms of the individual leases. Accrued rents are included in tenant receivables. Revenue from
tenant reimbursements of taxes, maintenance expenses and insurance is recognized in the period the
related expense is recorded. Additionally, certain of the lease agreements contain provisions that
grant additional rents based on tenants  sales volumes (contingent or percentage rent). Percentage
rents are recognized when the tenants achieve the specified targets as defined in their lease
agreements. The terms of certain leases require that the building/improvement portion of the lease
be accounted for under the direct financing method. Such method requires that a portion of such
cash flows be recognized as earned income over the life of the lease so as to produce a constant
periodic rate of return.

We have been engaged to provide various services, including development, construction, construction
management, property management, leasing and brokerage. The fees for these services are recognized
as services are provided and are generally calculated as a percentage of revenues earned or to be
earned or of property cost, as appropriate. Revenues from fixed-price construction contracts are
recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, measured by the physical completion of the
structure. Revenues from cost-plus-percentage-fee contracts are recognized on the basis of costs
incurred during the period plus the percentage fee earned on those costs. Construction management
contracts are recognized only to the extent of the fee revenue.

Construction contract costs include all direct material and labor costs and any indirect costs
related to contract performance. Provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are made
in the period in which such losses are determined. Changes in job performance, job conditions, and
estimated profitability, including those arising from any contract penalty provisions, and final
contract settlements may result in revisions to costs
and income and are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Any profit
incentives are included in revenues when their realization is reasonably assured. An amount equal
to contract costs attributable to any claims is included in revenues when realization is probable
and the amount can be reliably estimated.

Unbilled construction receivables represent reimbursable costs and amounts earned under contracts
in progress as of the date of our balance sheet. Such amounts become billable according to
contract terms, which usually consider the passage of time, achievement of certain milestones or
completion of

F-8

Table of Contents   

the project. Advance billings represent billings to or collections from clients on
contracts in advance of revenues earned thereon. Unbilled construction receivables are generally
billed and collected within the twelve months following the date of our balance sheet, and advance
billings are generally earned within the twelve months following the date of our balance sheet. As
of December 31, 2005, $700,000 of unbilled receivables has been included in  Accounts receivable 
and $2.3 million of unbilled receivables due from related parties has been included in  Accounts
receivable   related party . We had no advance billings as of December 31, 2005.

Securities commission income is recognized as units of our merchant development funds are sold
through AmREIT Securities Company. Securities commission income is earned as the services are
performed and pursuant to the corresponding prospectus or private offering memorandum. Generally,
it includes a selling commission of between 6.5% and 7.5%, a dealer manager fee of between 2.5% and
3.25% and offering and organizational costs of 1.0% to 1.50%. The selling commission is then paid
out to the unaffiliated selling broker dealer and reflected as securities commission expense.

REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS

Development Properties    Land, buildings and improvements are recorded at cost.
Expenditures related to the development of real estate are carried at cost which includes
capitalized carrying charges, acquisition costs and development costs. Carrying charges,
primarily interest, real estate taxes and loan acquisition costs, and direct and indirect
development costs related to buildings under construction, are capitalized as part of
construction in progress. The capitalization of such costs ceases at the earlier of one year
from the date of completion of major construction or when the property, or any completed
portion, becomes available for occupancy. The Company capitalizes acquisition costs once the
acquisition of the property becomes probable. Prior to that time, the Company expenses these
costs as acquisition expense. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
interest and taxes in the amount of $188,000, $165,000 and $0, respectively were capitalized on
properties under development.

Acquired Properties and Acquired Lease Intangibles    We account for real estate
acquisitions pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141,  Business
Combinations  ( SFAS 141 ). Accordingly, we allocate the purchase price of the acquired
properties to land, building and improvements, identifiable intangible assets and to the
acquired liabilities based on their respective fair values. Identifiable intangibles include
amounts allocated to acquired out-of-market leases, the value of
in-place leases and customer relationship value, if any. We
determine fair value based on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount
and capitalization rates and available market
information. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including the
historical operating results, known trends and specific market and economic conditions that may
affect the property. Factors considered by management in our analysis of determining the
as-if-vacant property value include an estimate of carrying costs during the expected lease-up
periods considering market conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating
carrying costs, management includes real estate taxes, insurance and estimates of lost rentals
at market rates during the expected lease-up periods, tenant demand and other economic
conditions. Management also estimates costs to execute similar leases including leasing
commissions, tenant improvements, legal and other related expenses. Intangibles related to
out-of-market leases and in-place lease value are recorded as acquired lease intangibles and
are amortized as an adjustment to rental revenue or amortization expense, as appropriate, over
the remaining terms of the

F-9

Table of Contents   

underlying leases. Premiums or discounts on acquired out-of-market
debt are amortized to interest expense over the remaining term of such debt.

Depreciation    Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over an
estimated useful life of up to 50 years for buildings, up to 20 years for site improvements and
over the term of lease for tenant improvements. Leasehold estate
properties, where we own the building and improvements but not the related ground, are amortized over the life of
the lease.

Properties Held for Sale    Properties are classified as held for sale if management has
decided to market the property for immediate sale in its present condition with the belief that
the sale will be completed within one year. Operating properties held for sale are carried at
the lower of cost or fair value less cost to sell. Depreciation and amortization are suspended
during the held for sale period. At December 31, 2005, we owned
two properties with a combined
carrying value of $3.6 million that were classified as real estate held for sale. At December
31, 2004, we owned nine properties with a combined carrying value of $6.3 million that were
classified as real estate held for sale.

Our properties generally have operations and cash flows that can be clearly distinguished from
the rest of the Company. The operations and gains on sales reported in discontinued operations
include those properties that have been sold or are held for sale and for which operations and
cash flows have been clearly distinguished. The operations of these properties have been
eliminated from ongoing operations, and we will not have continuing involvement after
disposition. Prior periods have been restated to reflect the operations of these properties as
discontinued operations.

Impairment    Management reviews its properties for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets, including accrued
rental income, may not be recoverable through operations. Management determines whether an
impairment in value occurred by comparing the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted and
without interest charges), including the residual value of the property, with the carrying
value of the individual property. If impairment is indicated, a loss will be recorded for the
amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. During 2004,
impairment charges in the
aggregate amount of $2.4 million were recognized related to two of our single-tenant properties
that were held for sale during 2004, one of which was sold during 2004 and the other of which
was sold in December 2005. These impairment charges are reported as discontinued operations.

RECEIVABLES AND ALLOWANCE FOR UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNTS

Tenant receivables    Included in tenant receivables are base rents, tenant
reimbursements and receivables attributable to recording rents on a straight-line basis. An
allowance for the uncollectible portion of accrued rents and accounts receivable is determined
based upon customer credit-worthiness (including expected recovery of our claim with respect to
any tenants in bankruptcy), historical bad debt levels, and current economic trends. As of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had an allowance for uncollectible accounts of $163,000 and
$97,000, respectively, related to our tenant receivables. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, we
recorded bad debt expense in the amount of $163,000 ,  $0 and $97,000 respectively, related to
tenant receivables that we specifically identified as potentially uncollectible based on our
assessment of the tenant s credit-worthiness. During 2005, we had bad debt recoveries of
$97,000. We had no recoveries of bad debt in 2004 or 2003 related to
tenant receivables. Bad debt expense and recoveries are included in
general and administrative expense.

F-10

Table of Contents   

Accounts receivable     included in accounts receivable are amounts due from clients of
our construction services business and various other receivables. As of December 31, 2005 and
2004, we had an allowance for uncollectible accounts of $264,000 and $0, respectively, related
to our accounts receivable. During 2005, we recorded bad debt expense in the amount of
$264,000 related to amounts due to us as reimbursement from a vendor for obligations that we
paid on such vendor s behalf. We believe such amounts to be potentially uncollectible based on
our assessment of the vendor s credit-worthiness and other considerations. We have recorded no
other bad debt expense related to accounts receivable during the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2005. Bad debt expense and recoveries are included in general and
administrative expense.

Notes receivable   related party    included in related party notes receivable are loans
made to our affiliated merchant development funds as part of our treasury management function
whereby we place excess cash in short term bridge loans for these affiliates related to the
acquisition or development of properties. We typically provide such financing to our
affiliates as a way of efficiently deploying our excess cash and earning a higher return than
we would in other short term investments or overnight funds. In most cases, the funds have a
construction lender in place, and we simply step in and provide financing on the same terms as
the third party lender. In so doing, we are able to access these funds as needed by having our
affiliate then draw down on their construction loans. These loans are unsecured, bear interest
at rates ranging from 6.7% to 7.0% and are due upon demand.

DEFERRED COSTS

Deferred costs include deferred leasing costs and deferred loan costs, net of amortization.
Deferred loan costs are incurred in obtaining property financing and are amortized to
interest expense over the term of the debt agreements. Deferred leasing costs consist of external
commissions associated with leasing our properties and are amortized to expense over the lease
term. Accumulated amortization related to deferred loan costs as of December 31, 2005 and 2004
totaled $268,000 and $185,000, respectively. Accumulated amortization related to leasing costs as
of December 31, 2005 and 2004 totaled $164,000 and $108,000, respectively.

DEFERRED COMPENSATION

Our deferred compensation and long term incentive plan is designed to attract and retain the
services of our trust managers and employees that we consider essential to our long-term growth
and success. As such, it is designed to provide them with the opportunity to own shares, in the
form of restricted shares, in us, and provide key employees the opportunity to participate in
the success of our affiliated actively managed merchant development funds through the economic
participation in our general partner companies. All long term compensation awards are designed
to vest over a period of three to seven years, and promote retention of our team. We amortize
the fair value, established at the date of grant, of the restricted shares ratably over the
vesting period.

Deferred compensation includes share grants to employees as a form of long-term compensation. The
share grants vest over a period of three to seven years. Additionally, we have assigned a portion,
up to 45%, of the economic interest in certain of our merchant development funds to certain of our
key employees. This economic interest is received, as, if and when we receive economic benefit from
our profit participation, after certain preferred returns have been paid to the partnership s
limited partners. This assignment of economic interest generally vests over a period of five to
seven years. This allows us to align the interest of our employees with the interest of our
shareholders. Because the future profits and

F-11

Table of Contents   

earnings from the retail limited partnerships cannot
be reasonably predicted or estimated, and any employee benefit is completely contingent upon the
benefit received by the general partner of the retail limited partnerships, we recognize expense
associated with the assignment of economic interest in our retail limited partnerships as we
recognize the corresponding income from the associated merchant development funds. No portion of
the economic interest in the merchant development funds that have provided profit participation to
us to date have been assigned to employees. Therefore, no compensation expense has been recorded to
date.

We maintain a defined contribution 401k retirement plan for our employees. This plan is available
for all employees, immediately upon employment. The plan allows for two open enrollment periods,
June and December. The plan allows for contributions to be either invested in an array of large,
mid and small cap mutual funds or directly into class A common shares. Employee contributions
invested in our stock are limited to 50% of the employee s contributions. We match 50% of the
employees contribution, up to a maximum employee contribution of 4%. None of the employer
contribution is matched in our stock. As of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, there were 41, 25
and 21 participants enrolled in the plan, with employer contributions of $92,000, $51,000 and
$35,000, respectively.

We are authorized to grant options on up to an aggregate of 1,422,335 shares of our class A
common stock as either incentive or non-qualified stock options. As of December 31, 2005 and
2004, none of such options have been issued.

FEDERAL INCOME TAXES

AmREIT has elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust ( REIT ) under the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, and is, therefore, not subject to Federal income taxes to the extent of
dividends paid, provided it meets all conditions specified by the Internal Revenue Code for
retaining its REIT status, including the requirement that at least 90% of its real estate
investment trust taxable income be distributed to shareholders.

AmREIT s real estate operating and development business, AmREIT Realty Investment Corporation
and subsidiaries ( ARIC ), is a fully integrated and wholly-owned business consisting of
brokers and real estate professionals that provide development, acquisition, brokerage,
leasing, construction, asset and property management services to our publicly traded portfolio
and merchant development funds as well as to third parties. ARIC and our wholly-owned
corporations that serve as the general partners of our merchant development funds are treated
for Federal income tax purposes as taxable REIT subsidiaries (collectively, the  Taxable REIT
Subsidiaries ). Federal and state income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability
method.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income (loss) available to class A
common shareholders by the weighted average number of class A common shares outstanding.
Diluted earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income (as adjusted as
appropriate) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding plus the weighted
average number of dilutive potential common shares. Diluted earnings per share information is
not applicable due to the anti-dilutive nature of the common class B, class C and class D
shares which represent 22.2 million , 11.4 million and 4.8 million potential common shares for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

F-12

Table of Contents   

The
following table presents information necessary to calculate basic and
diluted earnings (loss) per
share for the periods indicated:

* 
       
     The operating results for 2004 and 2003 include a charge to earnings of $1.7 million and
$915 thousand, respectively, which was the market value of the class A common shares issued to
H. Kerr Taylor, President   CEO, related to the sale of his advisory company to us in 1998.
The charge represented deferred merger costs related to this sale that was triggered by the
issuance of additional common stock as part of the merger with certain of our affiliated
investment funds during 2002 and the issuance of common C stock in 2003 and in 2004.
Additionally, the operating results for 2004 include impairment charges of $2.4 million, which
are related to two of our single-tenant properties that were held for sale during 2004, one of
which was sold during 2004 and another of which was sold in December 2005. 

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Our consolidated financial instruments consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents, tenant
receivables, accounts receivable, notes receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities and
notes payable. The carrying value of cash, cash equivalents, tenant receivables, accounts
receivable, notes receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities are representative of their
respective fair values due to the short-term maturity of these instruments. Our revolving line of
credit has market-based terms, including a variable interest rate. Accordingly, the carrying value
of the line of credit is representative of its fair value.

As of
December 31, 2005, the carrying value of our total debt
obligations was $114.7 million, all of which represent
fixed-rate obligations with an estimated fair value of
$117.3 million. As of
December 31, 2004, the carrying value of our total debt
obligations was $106.0 million, $68.0 million of which
represented fixed rate obligations
and had an estimated fair value of $70.3 million.

F-13

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES

In December 2003, the FASB reissued Interpretation No. 46 ( FIN 46R ),  Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities,  as revised. FIN 46R addresses how a business enterprise should
evaluate whether it has a controlling financial interest in an entity through means other than
voting rights. FIN 46R requires a variable interest entity to be consolidated by a company
that is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest entity s
activities or entitled to receive a majority of the
entity s residual returns or both. Disclosures are also required about variable interest
entities in which a company has a significant variable interest but that it is not required to
consolidate.

As of December 31, 2005, we are an investor in and the primary beneficiary of one entity that
qualifies as a variable interest entity pursuant to FIN 46R. This entity was established to
develop, own, manage, and hold property for investment and comprises $3.8 million of our total
consolidated assets at period end. This entity had no debt outstanding at period end. We
historically consolidated this entity (and others with similar economic and control provisions)
under generally accepted accounting principles in effect prior to the issuance of FIN 46R;
accordingly, our adoption of FIN 46R has had no effect on our financial position or results of
operations.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In June 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force issued EITF Issue No. 04-05 ( EITF 04-05 ),
 Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited
Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights . EITF 04-05 makes
it more likely that general partners will be required to consolidate limited partnerships by
making it more difficult for a general partner to overcome the presumption that it controls the
limited partnership. Under this new guidance, the presumption of general partner control will
be overcome only when the limited partners have either of two types of rights   the right to
dissolve or liquidate the partnership or otherwise remove the general partner  without cause 
or the right to effectively participate in significant decisions made in the ordinary course of
the partnership s business. These  kick-out rights  and  participating rights  must be
substantive in order to overcome the presumption of general partner control. The guidance is
effective June 29, 2005 for all newly-formed limited partnerships and for existing limited
partnership agreements that are modified. The guidance is effective for existing limited
partnership agreements that are not modified no later than the beginning of the first reporting
period in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We believe that EITF 04-05 will not
have a significant impact on our financial position or results of operations because we believe
that the limited partners have substantive kick-out rights in each of the limited partnerships
for which we serve as the general partner.

In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 123R ( SFAS 123R ),  Share-Based Payment  that
requires companies to expense the value of employee stock options and similar awards. SFAS
123R becomes effective in the first quarter of 2006. We have historically not used stock
options as a means of compensating our employees, and therefore we have no stock options
outstanding as of December 31, 2005. Our strategy to date has been to compensate our employees
through issuance of restricted shares of our class A common stock. We determine the fair value
of such awards based on the fair market value of the shares on the date of grant and then
record that expense over the vesting period of the respective awards. The provisions of SFAS
123R will not change this accounting treatment for our restricted stock awards. Accordingly,
we do not believe that our adoption of SFAS 123R in 2006 will impact our consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

F-14

Table of Contents   

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards board issued Statement No. 153 ( SFAS
153 ),  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets , an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. SFAS 153 is
effective for nonmonetary transactions occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15,
2005. SFAS 153 will no longer allow nonmonetary exchanges to be recorded at book value with no
gain being recognized. Nonmonetary exchanges will be accounted for at fair value, recognizing
any gain or loss, if the transaction meets a commercial substance criterion and fair value is
determinable. To prevent gain recognition on exchanges of real estate when the risks and
rewards of ownership are not fully transferred, SFAS 153 precludes a gain from being recognized
if the entity has significant continuing involvement with the real estate given up in the
exchange. We have historically not entered into nonmonetary transactions, and SFAS 153 will
impact us only to the extent that we engage in such transactions.

In March 2005, the FASB issued final guidance that clarifies how companies should account for
 conditional  asset retirement obligations. Interpretation No. 47 ( FIN 47 ),  Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  clarifies that the term  conditional asset retirement
obligation  as used in FASB Statement No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, 
refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and
(or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the
control of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional
even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of settlement. Thus, the timing
and (or) method of settlement may be conditional on a future event. Accordingly, an entity is
required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The fair value of a
liability for the conditional asset retirement obligation should be recognized when
incurred generally upon acquisition, construction, or development and (or) through the normal
operation of the asset. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a
conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the
liability when sufficient information exists. Statement 143 acknowledges that in some cases,
sufficient information may not be available to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset
retirement obligation. This Interpretation also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient
information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. We
adopted FIN 47 during 2005; however, the adoption had no effect on our financial condition or
results of operations as we have no material asset retirement obligations on any of our
properties.

F-15

Table of Contents   

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

The following is a summary of our
discontinued operations ($ in thousands, except for per share
data):

STOCK ISSUANCE COSTS

Issuance costs incurred in the raising of capital through the sale of common shares are treated
as a reduction of shareholders  equity.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Company considers all highly
liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of demand deposits at commercial banks and money
market funds.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

Certain amounts in the prior year consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to
conform to the presentation used in the current year consolidated financial statements.
Specifically, revenues for 2004 and 2003 have been reduced to reflect as issuance costs the
capital-raising activities of our securities operations related to our class C and class D
common shares. Expenses incurred in conjunction
with these capital-raising activities during 2004 and 2003 were reduced by a corresponding
amount. Such reclassifications had no effect on net income (loss) or shareholders  equity as
previously reported.

F-16

Table of Contents   

3. OPERATING LEASES 

Our operating leases range from five to twenty-five years and generally include one or more
five year renewal options. A summary of minimum future rentals to be received, exclusive of
any renewals, under noncancelable operating leases in existence at December 31, 2005 is as
follows (in thousands):

4. NET INVESTMENT IN DIRECT FINANCING LEASES 

The Company s net investment in its direct financing leases at December 31, 2005 and 2004
included (in thousands):

A summary of minimum future rentals, exclusive of any renewals, under the non-cancelable direct
financing leases in existence at December 31, 2005 is as follows (in thousands):

F-17

Table of Contents   

5. INVESTMENTS IN MERCHANT DEVELOPMENT FUNDS AND OTHER AFFILIATES 

Merchant Development Funds 

As of December 31, 2005, we, indirectly through wholly owned subsidiaries, owned interests in
five limited partnerships which are accounted for under the equity method as AmREIT exercises
significant influence over the investee. These five merchant development funds were formed to
develop, own, manage and add value to properties with an average holding period of two to four
years. In each of the partnerships, the limited partners, with or without cause, have the right
to remove and replace the general partner by a vote of the limited partners owning a majority of
the outstanding units. Our interests in these merchant development funds range from 1.4% to
10.5%. These partnerships were formed to develop, own, manage, and hold property for
investment.

AmREIT Opportunity Fund ( AOF )    AmREIT Opportunity Corporation ( AOC ), a wholly
owned subsidiary of AmREIT, invested $250 thousand as a limited partner and $1 thousand as a
general partner in AOF. AmREIT currently owns a 10.5% limited partner interest in AOF.
Liquidation of AOF commenced in July of 2002, and as of December 31, 2005, AOF has an interest
in one property. As the general partner, AOC receives a promoted interest in cash flow and
profits after certain preferred returns are achieved for its limited partners.

AmREIT Income   Growth Fund, Ltd. ( AIG )    AmREIT Income   Growth Corporation, a
wholly owned subsidiary of AmREIT, invested $200 thousand as a limited partner and $1 thousand
as a general partner in AIG. AmREIT currently owns an approximately 2.0% limited partner
interest in AIG.

AmREIT Monthly Income   Growth Fund ( MIG )    AmREIT Monthly Income   Growth
Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of AmREIT, invested $200 thousand as a limited partner
and $1 thousand as a general partner in MIG. AmREIT currently owns an approximately 1.4%
limited partner interest in MIG.

AmREIT Monthly Income   Growth Fund II ( MIG II )    AmREIT Monthly Income   Growth II
Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of AmREIT, invested $400 thousand as a limited partner
and $1 thousand as a general partner in MIG II. AmREIT currently owns an approximately 1.6%
limited partner interest in MIG II.

AmREIT Monthly Income   Growth Fund III ( MIG III )    AmREIT Monthly Income   Growth III
Corporation, our wholly owned subsidiary, invested $800 thousand as a limited partner and $1
thousand as a general partner in MIG III. MIG III began raising money in June 2005, and, as of
December 31, 2005, had raised approximately $11.2 million. Our $800 thousand investment currently
represents a 7.1% limited partner interest in MIG III. As additional limited partner units are
sold in MIG III , we expect our limited partnership interest will decline to between 0.8% and 1.6%.

F-18

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth certain financial information for the AIG, MIG, MIG II and MIG
III merchant development funds (AOF is not included as it is currently in liquidation):

* 
       
     Illustrating the Sharing Ratios and LP Preference provisions using AIG as an example, the
LPs share in 99% of the cash distributions until they receive an 8% preferred return. Thereafter,
the LPs share in 90% of the cash distributions until they receive a 10% preferred return.  

** 
       
     MIG III is a  best efforts  $50 million offering with an additional $50 million that can be
added at the General Partner s sole discretion. The initial third party limited partner
investment was received June 22, 2005. 

Other affiliate 

Other than the merchant development funds, we have an investment in one entity that is
accounted for under the equity method since we exercise significant influence over such
investee. We invested $1.1 million in West Road Plaza, LP, and we have a 25% limited partner
interest in the partnership. West Road Plaza was formed in 2004 to acquire, redevelop, lease
and manage West Road Plaza, a shopping center located on
the north side of Houston, TX at the intersection of I-45 and West Road.

F-19

Table of Contents   

Combined condensed financial information for the merchant development funds and other
affiliates (at 100%) is summarized as follows:

Combined Balance Sheets  (in thousands)

Combined
Statements of Operations  (in thousands)

6. ACQUIRED LEASE INTANGIBLES 

In accordance with SFAS 141, we have identified and recorded the value of intangibles at
the property acquisition date. Such intangibles include the value of in-place leases and
out-of-market leases. Acquired lease intangible assets (in-place leases and above-market
leases) are net of accumulated amortization of $2.9 million and $558,000 at December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively. These assets are
amortized over the leases  remaining terms, which range from 4 months to 20 years. The
amortization of above-market leases is recorded as a reduction of rental income and the
amortization of in-place leases is recorded to amortization expense. The amortization expense
related to in-place leases was $2.0 million, $475,000 and $64,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. The amortization of above-market leases, which was recorded as a reduction of
rental income, was $337,000, $20,000 and $0 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

F-20

Table of Contents   

Acquired lease intangible liabilities (below-market leases) are net of previously accreted
minimum rent of $558,000 and $63,000 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively and are
amortized over the leases  remaining terms, which range from 4 months to 16 years. The
amortization of below-market leases is recorded as an increase to rental income.

The estimated aggregate amortization amounts from acquired lease intangibles for each of the
next five years are as follows (in thousands):

7. NOTES PAYABLE 

The Company s outstanding debt at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consists of the following (in
thousands):

* 
       
     The fixed-rate unsecured loans were paid off subsequent to December 31, 2005 

We have an unsecured credit facility (the  Credit Facility ) in place which is being used
to provide funds for the acquisition of properties and working capital. The Credit Facility
matures in November 2007 and provides that we may borrow up to $40 million subject to the value
of unencumbered assets. Effective November 2005, we
renewed our Credit Facility on terms and conditions substantially the same as the previous
facility. The Credit Facility contains covenants which, among other restrictions, require us
to maintain a minimum net worth, a maximum leverage ratio, maximum tenant concentration ratios,
specified interest coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. On December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all financial covenants.
The Credit Facility s annual interest rate varies depending upon our debt to asset ratio, from
LIBOR plus a spread of 1.35% to LIBOR plus a spread of 2.35%. As of December 31, 2005, the
interest rate was LIBOR plus 1.55%. As of December 31, 2005, there was no balance outstanding
under the Credit Facility. We have approximately $38.0 million available under our line of
credit, subject to the covenants above and Lender approval on the use of the proceeds.

In conjunction with the acquisition of Uptown Park during 2005, we added $49.0 million in new
fixed

F-21

Table of Contents   

rate debt. All other acquisitions in 2005 were funded by cash. In conjunction with
property acquisitions completed during 2004, we assumed debt with a fair value of $46.2 million,
which included a debt premium of $1.4 million at the date of acquisition based upon the above
market interest rate of the debt instrument. The debt premium is
being amortized over the terms
of the related debt instruments.

As of December 31, 2005, the weighted average interest rate on our fixed-rate debt is 6.04%, and
the weighted average remaining life of such debt is 7.7 years.

As of December 31, 2005, scheduled principal repayments on notes payable and the Credit Facility
were as follows (in thousands):

8. CONCENTRATIONS 

As of December 31, 2005, three properties individually accounted for more than 10% of our
consolidated total assets   Plaza in the Park and Uptown Park in Houston, Texas and MacArthur Park
in Dallas, Texas accounted for 10%, 22% and 17%, respectively of total assets. Consistent with
our strategy of investing in areas that we know well, 19 of our properties our located in the
Houston metropolitan area. These Houston properties represent 64% of our rental income for the
year ended December 31, 2005. Houston is Texas  largest city and the fourth largest city in the
United States.

F-22

Table of Contents   

Following are the revenues generated by the Company s top tenants for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31 ($ in thousands):

9. FEDERAL INCOME TAXES 

The differences between net income for financial reporting purposes and taxable income before
distribution deductions relate primarily to temporary differences and merger costs which are
expensed for financial reporting purposes. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the net book bases of
real estate assets approximated their tax bases.

Income tax expense consists of the following for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 which is included in income tax expense or in discontinued
operations as appropriate ($ in thousands):

The effective tax rate approximates the statutory tax rate of 34% as no significant permanent
differences exist between book and taxable income of the Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.
Additionally, the Taxable REIT Subsidiaries had a net deferred tax asset of $244,000 at December
31, 2005 and a net deferred tax liability of $43,000 at December 31, 2004. The deferred tax
assets relate to income received from transactions with our merchant development funds, a
portion of which has been deferred for financial reporting purposes pursuant to generally
accepted accounting principles. However, all of such income will be subject to tax. Our
deferred tax liabilities were established to record the tax effect of the differences between
the book and tax bases of certain real estate assets of our real estate development and
operating and our asset advisory businesses. No valuation allowance was provided on the net
deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2005 as we believe that it is more likely than not that
the future benefits associated with these deferred assets will be realized.

F-23

Table of Contents   

For federal income tax purposes, distributions paid to shareholders consist of ordinary income,
capital gains and return of capital as follows:

10. STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY AND MINORITY INTEREST 

Class A Common Shares    Our class A common shares are listed on the American Stock Exchange
( AMEX ) and traded under the symbol  AMY.  As of December 31, 2005, there were 6,401,537 of our
class A common shares outstanding, net of 77,741 shares held in treasury. During June 2005, we
completed an offering of our class A common shares. We issued 2.76 million
shares, including the underwriter s 360,000 share overallotment, at $8.10 per share in such
offering. The offering proceeds were used to fund the acquisition of the Uptown Park shopping
center as further discussed below. Our payment of any future dividends to our class A common
shareholders is dependent upon applicable legal and contractual restrictions, including the
provisions of the class B and class C common shares, as well as our earnings and financial needs.

Class B Common Shares    The class B common shares are not listed on an exchange and there
is currently no available trading market for the class B common shares. The class B common shares
have voting rights, together with all classes of common shares, as one class of stock. The class B
common shares were issued at $9.25 per share. They receive a fixed 8.0% cumulative and preferred
annual dividend, paid in quarterly installments, and are convertible into the class A common shares
on a one-for-one basis at any time, at the holder s option. Beginning in July 2005, we have the
right to call the shares and, at the holder s option, either convert them on a one-for-one basis
for class A shares or redeem them for $10.18 per share in cash plus any accrued and unpaid
dividends. As of December 31, 2005, there were 2,148,649 of our class B common shares outstanding.

Class C Common Shares    The class C common shares are not listed on an exchange and there
is currently no available trading market for the class C common shares. The class C common shares
have voting rights, together with all classes of common shares, as one class of stock. The class C
common shares were issued at $10.00 per share. They receive a fixed 7.0% preferred annual dividend,
paid in monthly installments, and are convertible into the class A common shares after a 7-year
lock out period based on 110% of invested capital, at the holder s option. After three years and
beginning in August 2006, subject to the issuance date of the respective shares, we have the right
to force conversion of the shares into class A shares at the 10% conversion premium or to redeem
the shares at a cash redemption price of $11.00 per share. As of December 31, 2005, there were
4,119,923 of our class C common shares outstanding. Currently, there is a class C dividend
reinvestment program that allows investors to reinvest their dividends into additional class C
common shares. These reinvested

F-24

Table of Contents   

shares are also convertible into the class A common shares after
the 7-year lock out period and receive the 10%
conversion premium upon conversion. As of December 31, 2005, 987 holders are participating in the
dividend reinvestment plan.

Class D Common Shares    The class D common shares are not listed on an exchange and there
is currently no available trading market for the class D common shares. The class D common shares
have voting rights, together with all classes of common shares, as one class of stock. The class D
common shares were issued at $10.00 per share. They receive a fixed 6.5% annual dividend, paid in
monthly installments, subject to payment of dividends then payable to class B and class C common
shares. The class D common shares are convertible into the class A common shares at a 7.7% premium
on original capital after a 7-year lock out period, at the holder s option. After one year and
beginning in July 2005, subject to the issuance date of the respective shares, we have the right to
force conversion of the shares into class A shares at the 7.7% conversion premium or to redeem the
shares at a cash price of $10.00. In either case, the conversion premium will be pro rated based on
the number of years the shares are outstanding. As of December 31, 2005, there were 11,035,482 of
our class D common shares outstanding. Currently, there is a class D dividend reinvestment program
that allows investors to reinvest their dividends into additional class D common shares. These
reinvested shares are also convertible into the class A common shares after the 7-year lock out
period and receive the 7.7% conversion premium upon conversion. As of December 31, 2005, 2,909
holders are participating in the dividend reinvestment plan.

Minority Interest    Minority interest represents a third-party interest in entities
that we consolidate as a result of our controlling financial interest in such investees.

11. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

See Note 5 regarding investments in merchant development funds and other affiliates and Note 1
regarding notes receivable from affiliates.

We earn real estate fee income by providing property acquisition, leasing, property management,
construction and construction management services to our merchant development funds. We own 100%
of the stock of the companies that serve as the general partner for the funds. Real estate fee
income of $4.6 million, $1.4 million and $455,000 were paid by the funds to the Company for 2005,
2004, and 2003 respectively. Additionally, construction revenues of $2.4 million were earned from
the merchant development funds during 2005. The Company earns asset management fees from the funds
for providing accounting related services, investor relations, facilitating the deployment of
capital, and other services provided in conjunction with operating the fund. Asset management fees
of $486,000, $339,000 and $240,000 were paid by the funds to us for 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

As a sponsor of real estate investment opportunities to the NASD financial planning broker-dealer
community, we maintain an indirect 1% general partner interest in the investment funds that we
sponsor. The funds are typically structured such that the limited partners receive 99% of the
available cash flow until 100% of their original invested capital has been returned and a preferred
return has been met. Once this has happened, then the general partner begins sharing in the
available cash flow at various promoted levels. We also may assign a portion of this general
partner interest in these investment funds to our employees as long term, contingent compensation.
We believe that this assignment will align the interest

F-25

Table of Contents   

of management with that of the
shareholders, while at the same time allowing for a competitive compensation structure in order
to attract and retain key management positions without increasing the overhead burden.

On July 23, 2002, the Company completed a merger with three of its affiliated partnerships, AAA Net
Realty Fund IX, Ltd., AAA Net Realty Fund X, Ltd., and AAA Net Realty Fund XI, Ltd. AmREIT
accounted for this merger as a purchase, whereby the assets of the partnerships have been recorded
at fair value. AmREIT increased its real estate assets by approximately $24.3 million and issued
approximately 2.6 million shares of Class B common stock to the limited partners in the affiliated
partnerships as a result of the merger. Approximately $760,000 in 8 year, 5.47% interest only,
subordinated notes were issued to limited partners of the affiliated partnerships who dissented to
the merger. The acquired properties are unencumbered, single tenant, free standing properties on
lease to national and regional tenants, where the lease is the direct obligation of the parent
company. A deferred merger expense resulted from the shares payable to H. Kerr Taylor, our
President and Chief Executive Officer, as a result of the merger, which shares represented a
portion of consideration payable to Mr. Taylor as a result of the sale of his advisory company to
AmREIT. Mr. Taylor earned shares during 2004 and 2003 as a result of our class C and class D
common share offering, resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings of approximately $1.68 million
and $915,000 in 2004 and 2003, respectively. During 2004, Mr. Taylor received his final
installment of shares, and, to date, he has received 900 thousand class A common shares pursuant to
this agreement. No further shares will be issued to Mr. Taylor pursuant to this deferred
consideration agreement.

On March 20, 2002, the Company formed AAA CTL Notes, Ltd. ( AAA ), a majority owned subsidiary
which is consolidated in our financial statements, through which the Company purchased
fifteen IHOP leasehold estate properties and two IHOP fee simple properties.

12. REAL ESTATE ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS 

During
2005, we invested over $110 million through the acquisition of three multi-tenant
properties. The acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and the results of their operations
are included in the consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition.

On September 30, 2005, we acquired for cash The South Bank, a multi-tenant retail center located on
the San Antonio Riverwalk in San Antonio, Texas. The property is located at the corner of a major
downtown intersection and is accessible from both the river and street levels. The Property
consists of approximately 47,000 square-feet, has a weighted average remaining lease term of 5.26
years and is 100% leased. Tenants on the Property include, among others, Hard Rock Caf , Starbucks,
Ben   Jerry s, Harley-Davidson and The County Line Barbecue.

On June 1, 2005, we acquired Uptown Park, a 169,000 square foot multi-tenant shopping center
located on approximately 16.85 acres of land. The property is located on the northwest corner of
Loop 610 and Post Oak Boulevard in Houston, Texas in the heart of the Uptown Houston area. The
property was developed in two phases   phase one consists of approximately 147,000 square feet that
was constructed in 1999, and construction was recently completed on phase two which consists of
approximately 22,000 square feet. The property was funded with cash and the placement of long-term
fixed-rate debt. The cash portion of the purchase consideration was substantially funded by the net
proceeds from the offering of our class A common shares as discussed above. The debt has

F-26

Table of Contents   

a term of 10 years and is payable interest-only to maturity at a fixed interest rate of 5.37% with
the entire principal amount due in 2015.

During 2005, we sold ten single-tenant non-core properties for $16.6 million in cash to unrelated
third parties resulting in gains of $3.4 million. In addition, we completed the sale of six
single-tenant retail properties that were acquired for resale for a total of approximately $11.5
million in cash. On December 15, 2005, we utilized the net proceeds from the disposition of our
non-core properties to acquire 39,000 square feet of multi-tenant
retail projects located adjacent to
the MacArthur Park Shopping Center in Las Colinas, an affluent residential and business community
in Dallas, Texas. We purchased the MacArthur Park Shopping Center on December 27, 2004.

During
2004, we invested $105.2 million through the acquisition of five multi-tenant
properties. The acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and the results of their operations
are included in the consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition.
Additionally, during 2004, we sold six single tenant non-core properties. The sale of the six
properties resulted in a net gain of $861,000 after including impairment charges of $1.1 million.
The cash proceeds from the sale of the six properties were approximately $11.1 million after paying
down debt of $1.4 million.

13. COMMITMENTS 

In March
of 2004, we signed a new lease agreement for our office facilities which expires
August 31, 2009. In addition, we lease various office equipment for daily activities.
Rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $233,000, $183,000 and
$92,000, respectively.

A summary of future minimum lease payments for the office lease and equipment follows (in
thousands):

14. SEGMENT REPORTING 

The operating segments presented are the segments of AmREIT for which separate financial
information is available, and revenue and operating performance is evaluated regularly by senior
management in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.

We evaluate the performance of its operating segments primarily on revenue. Because the real
estate development and operating segment and securities and merchant development fund segments are
both revenue and fee intensive, management considers revenue the primary indicator in allocating
resources and evaluating performance.

F-27

Table of Contents   

We have historically evaluated the performance of our operating segments primarily on revenue.
During 2005, we began evaluating our operating segments based on income from continuing operations.
Accordingly, we began allocating certain overhead expenses as well as interest expense to the
individual
business units to which those expenses relate. We have recorded reclassifications to the 2004
segment expenses to conform to the current period presentation.

The portfolio segment consists of our portfolio of single and multi-tenant shopping center
projects. This segment consists of 49 properties located in 15 states. Expenses for this segment
include depreciation, interest, minority interest, legal cost directly related to the portfolio of
properties and property level expenses. Our consolidated assets are substantially all
in this segment. Additionally, substantially all of the increase in total assets during the year
ended December 31, 2005 occurred within the portfolio segment.

Our real estate development and operating business is a fully integrated and wholly-owned business
consisting of brokers and real estate professionals that provide development, acquisition,
brokerage, leasing, construction, asset and property management services to our publicly traded
portfolio and merchant development funds as well as to third parties. Our securities operation
consists of an NASD registered securities business that, through the internal securities group,
raises capital from the independent financial planning marketplace. The merchant development funds
sell limited partnership interests to retail investors, in which we indirectly invest as both
the general partner and as a limited partner (see Note 5). These merchant development funds were
formed to develop, own, manage, and add value to properties with an average holding period of two
to four years.

F-28

Table of Contents   

F-29

Table of Contents   

F-30

Table of Contents   

F-31

Table of Contents   

15. SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) 

Presented below is a summary of the consolidated quarterly financial data for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 (amounts in thousands, except per share data):

(1) 
       
     Revenues for 2004 and 2003 have been reduced to reflect as issuance costs the
capital-raising activities of our securities operations related to our class C and class D
common shares. Expenses incurred in conjunction with these capital raising activities during
2004 and 2003 were reduced by a corresponding amount, and these reclassifications therefore had
no effect on our net income for either of these periods. 

F-32

Table of Contents   

AmREIT and subsidiaries 

SCHEDULE III   Consolidated Real Estate Owned and Accumulated Depreciation 

For the year ended December 31, 2005 

Note A    The portion of the lease relating to the building of this property has been recorded as a direct financing lease for financial reporting purposes. Consequently, depreciation is not applicable.

Note B
  As of December 31, 2005, the aggregate book basis of our
properties approximated the aggregate tax basis.

Activity within real estate and accumulated depreciation during the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 is as follows:

F-33

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 

3.1 
       
     Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust (included as Exhibit 3.1 of the Exhibits to the
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended December 31, 2002, and incorporated
herein by reference). 

3.2 
       
     By-Laws, dated December 22, 2002 (included as Exhibit 3.1 of the Exhibits to the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended December 31, 2002, and incorporated herein by
reference). 

10.1 
       
     Revolving Credit Agreement, effective September 4, 2003, by and among AmREIT and Wells Fargo
Bank, as the Agent, relating to a $20,000,000 loan (included as Exhibit 10.3 of the Exhibits
to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended December 31, 2003 and
incorporated herein by reference). 

10.2 
       
     Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, effective December 8, 2003, by and among
AmREIT and Wells Fargo Bank, as the Agent, relating to a $30,000,000 loan (included as Exhibit
10.4 of the Exhibits to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended
December 31, 2003 and incorporated herein by reference). 

10.3*  
       
      Eighth Modification Agreement, effective November 4, 2005 by and between AmREIT and Wells
Fargo Bank, relating to a $40,000,000 loan and modifying the September 4, 2003 Revolving
Credit Agreement 

10.4 
       
     Purchase and Sale Agreement between Midland Real Estate Company, L.P. and AmREIT Realty
Investment Corporation with related amendments for the acquisition of The South Bank property
(included as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Report on Form 8-K/A filed with the Commission on
December 13, 2005) 

21.1*  
       
      Subsidiaries of the Company 

31.1**  
       
      Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of Chief Executive Officer dated December 31, 2005. 

Table of Contents   

* 
       
     Filed herewith  

** 
       
     Furnished herewith 

<EX-10.3>
 2
 h34634exv10w3.htm
 EIGHTH MODIFICATION AGREEMENT EFFECTIVE 11/4/2005

exv10w3 

Exhibit 10.3 

EIGHTH MODIFICATION AGREEMENT  
(Unsecured Loan)

THIS EIGHTH MODIFICATION AGREEMENT ( Agreement ), dated November 18, 2005 but effective as of
November 4, 2005, is entered into by and between WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
( Lender ), and AmREIT, a Texas Real Estate Investment Trust ( Borrower ).

RECITALS  

A. Lender made a revolving loan (the  Loan ) to Borrower in the maximum principal amount of
TWENTY MILLION AND NO/100THS DOLLARS ($20,000,000.00) evidenced by a revolving note dated September
4, 2003, executed by Borrower in favor of Lender (the  Revolving Note ), which Revolving Note was
modified and increased by a revolving loan to Borrower in the maximum principal amount of THIRTY
MILLION AND NO/100THS DOLLARS ($30,000,000.00) evidenced by a First Amended and Restated Revolving
Note dated December 8, 2003, executed by Borrower in favor of Lender (the  First Amended Note ).

B. The First Amended Note is governed by the terms of a Revolving Credit Agreement (as
amended, the  Loan Agreement ) dated September 4, 2003, executed by Borrower and Lender, which
Loan Agreement, together with the First Amended Note, the First
Modification (hereinafter defined), Second Modification (hereinafter
defined), Second Amended Note (hereinafter defined), Third
Modification Agreement (hereinafter defined), Fourth Modification Agreement (hereinafter
defined), Fifth Modification Agreement (hereinafter defined), Third Amended Note (hereinafter
defined), Sixth Modification Agreement (hereinafter defined), Seventh Modification (hereinafter
defined) this Agreement and all other documents executed in conjunction with the Loan are herein
collectively called the  Loan Documents. 

C. Borrower and Lender entered into that certain Modification Agreement dated as of December
8, 2003 (the  First Modification ) pursuant to which the total amount of the Loan was increased and
certain terms and provisions of the Loan Documents were modified and amended.

D. Borrower and Lender entered into that certain Second Modification Agreement (the  Second
Modification ) dated as of June 30, 2004 pursuant to which the total amount of the Loan was
increased to Thirty-Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($35.000,000.00), which increased Loan is
evidenced by a Second Amended and Restated Revolving Note executed and delivered by Borrower to
Lender dated June 30, 2004 in the maximum principal amount of Thirty-Five Million and No/100
Dollars ($35,000,000.00) (the  Second Amended Note ).

E. Borrower and Lender entered into that certain Third Modification Agreement (the  Third
Modification ) dated September 4, 2004, pursuant to which the Revolving Credit Termination Date (as
defined in the Loan Agreement) was extended to October 4, 2004.

F. Borrower and Lender entered into that certain Fourth Modification Agreement (the  Fourth
Modification ) dated October 4, 2004, pursuant to which the Revolving Credit Termination Date (as
defined in the Loan Agreement) was extended to October 4, 2005 and

pursuant to which certain terms and provisions of the Loan Documents were modified and amended.

G. Borrower and Lender entered into that certain Fifth Modification Agreement (the  Fifth
Modification ) dated December 21, 2004, pursuant to which (i) the total amount of the Loan was
increased to Forty-One Million and No/100 Dollars ($41,000,000.00), which increased Loan is
evidenced by a Third Amended and Restated Revolving Note executed and delivered by Borrower to
Lender dated December 21, 2004 in the maximum principal amount of Forty-One Million and No/100
Dollars ($41,000,000.00)(The  Third Amended Note ) and (ii) certain terms and provisions of the
Loan Documents were modified and amended.

H. Borrower and Lender entered into that certain Sixth Modification Agreement (the  Sixth
Modification ) dated June 1, 2005, pursuant to which certain terms and provisions of the Loan
Documents were modified and amended.

I. Borrower and Lender entered into that certain Seventh Modification Agreement (the
 Seventh Modification ) dated October 4, 2005, pursuant to which the Revolving Credit Termination
Date (as defined in the Loan Agreement) was extended to November 4, 2005.

J. By this Agreement Borrower and Lender intend to further extend the Revolving Credit
Termination Date, to reduce the total amount of the Loan to Forty Million and No/100 Dollars
($40,000,000.00) and to further modify and amend certain terms and provisions of the Loan
Documents.

NOW, THEREFORE, Borrower and Lender agree as follows:

1.  DEFINED TERMS . Unless otherwise defined in this Agreement, capitalized terms
used in this Agreement shall have the same meanings as are ascribed to such terms in the Loan
Agreement.

2.  DECREASE OF COMMITMENT . The Commitment shall be and hereby is decreased from
Forty One Million and No/100 Dollars ($41,000,000.00) to Forty Million and No/100 Dollars
($40,000,000.00). To evidence such decrease in the Commitment Borrower shall execute and deliver
to Lender a Fourth Amended and Restated Revolving Note in the form attached to this Agreement as
Exhibit  A  and made a part hereof, which Fourth Amended and Restated Revolving Note shall, from
and after the date of this Agreement, be deemed the  Revolving Note  which is defined in and the
subject of the Loan Agreement, as modified by the Fifth Modification. Exhibit  A  to this
Agreement shall be and hereby is substituted for Exhibit  B  to the Loan Agreement.

3.  DEFINITIONAL CHANGES .

(a) 
       
     The definition of the term  Applicable Margin  as set forth in Section 1.1 of
the Loan Agreement shall be and hereby is deleted and the following shall be and
hereby is inserted in lieu thereof: 

Applicable Margin   means the percentage rate set forth
below corresponding to the ratio of Total Liabilities to Gross Asset
Value 

as determined in accordance with Section 7.1 (c) in effect at such
time: 

The Applicable Margin for Loans shall be determined by Lender
based on the ratio of Total Liabilities to Gross Asset Value as set
forth in the Compliance Certificate most recently delivered by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 7.1(c) Any such adjustment to such
Applicable Margin shall be effective as of the first day of the
calendar quarter immediately following the end of the calendar
quarter for which Borrower delivers to Lender the applicable
Compliance Certificate pursuant to Section 7.1(c). If the Borrower
fails to deliver a Compliance Certificate pursuant to Section 7.1(c)
the Applicable Margin shall equal the percentages corresponding to
Level 5 from the date the required Compliance Certificate was due
until the date of receipt by Lender of the required Compliance
Certificate; however the application of such Level 5 Applicable
Margin under such circumstances shall not impair Lender s ability to
declare such failure to deliver the required Compliance Certificate
an Event of Default. Further, the inclusion of Level 5 in the
foregoing table shall not be deemed a consent by Lender for Borrower
to breach the covenants set forth in Section 8.2 of this Loan
Agreement and shall not impair Lender s ability to declare such
breach an Event of Default. 

(b) 
       
     The definition of the term  Commitment  as set
forth in Section 1.1 of the Loan
Agreement, as modified by the provisions of the Fifth Modification, shall be and hereby
is modified to delete the words  Forty-One Million and No/100 Dollars ($41,000,000.00) 
and to substitute the words  Forty Million and No/100 Dollars ($40,000,000.00)  in lieu
thereof. 

(c) 
       
     The definition of the term  Operating Property Value  as set forth in Section 1.1
of the Loan Agreement, as modified by the provisions of the Fourth Modification, shall
be and hereby is deleted and the following definition shall be and hereby is inserted in
lieu thereof: 

Operating Property Value   means, as of a given date and with
respect to any Person, such Person s EBITDA for the fiscal quarter

most recently ended (including the amortized cash portion of Direct
Financing Leases  as defined by GAAP  not already added back to
EBITDA, and excluding Net Operating Income from any Property not
owned by such Person for the entire fiscal quarter most recently
ended and further excluding EBITDA derived from sources other than
Property)  multiplied by  4 and  divided by  (i) eight
and  one-quarter  percent
(8 1 / 4 %) for that portion of
EBITDA derived from single-tenant, triple-net leased Properties,
(ii) eight and one-quarter percent
(8 1 / 4 %) for that
portion of EBITDA derived from multi-tenant Properties and (iii)
eight percent (8%) for portion of EBITDA derived from
grocery-anchored retail Properties (including the Uptown Park
Property being that retail Property located at 1101, 1111, 1121,
1131, 1141, 1151, and 1180 Uptown Park Boulevard, Houston, Texas
77056,  plus  the purchase price of any real property acquired
during the fiscal quarter most recently ended other than real
property upon which construction is then in progress.  

(d) 
       
     The definition of the term  Revolving Credit Termination Date  as set forth in
Section 1.1 of the Loan Agreement, as modified by the provisions of the Seventh
Modification, shall be and hereby is modified to delete the words  November 4, 2005 
and substitute the words  November 4, 2007  in lieu thereof. 

4.  ADDITION
OF DEFINITION . The following definition shall be and hereby is added to
Section 1.1 of the Loan Agreement:

Unused
Fee   means a fee payable by Borrower to Lender in
consideration of Lender s having the Commitment available to be
loaned to Borrower, which Unused Fee shall be calculated and paid
quarterly based on the portion of the Commitment, determined on a
daily basis, not borrowed and outstanding during such preceding
calendar quarter. 

5.  EXTENSION
FEE . Upon the execution of this Agreement Borrower shall pay to Lender a
credit facility extension fee in the amount of $200,000.00.

6.  UNUSED
FEE . The following provision shall be and hereby is added as Section 3.1(d)
to the Loan Agreement:

(d) On the first day of each January, April, July and October prior
to the Revolving Credit Termination Date, commencing January 1, 2006,
and on the Revolving Credit Termination date with respect to the
period since the last date on which the Unused Fee was paid, Borrower
shall pay to Lender the Unused Fee. If the unused portion of the
Commitment is equal to or greater than fifty percent (50%) of the
Commitment, the Unused Fee rate shall be 12.5/100% (.125%) of the
Unused portion of the Commitment. If

the unused portion of the Commitment is less than fifty percent (50%)
of the Commitment, the Unused Fee rate shall be 20/100% (.2%) of the
unused portion of the Commitment .

7.  UNENCUMBERED
POOL PROPERTIES . The provisions of Sections 4.3 (d) and 4.3(e) of
the Loan Agreement shall be and hereby are deleted and the following provisions shall be and hereby
are inserted in lieu thereof:

(d) No single-tenant Unencumbered Pool Property (other than those leased by
CVS Corporation and its Subsidiaries   CVS  ) shall constitute greater than
10% of the total value of the Unencumbered Pool Properties, and no
single-tenant Unencumbered Pool Property leased by CVS shall constitute
greater than 15% of the total value of the Unencumbered Pool Properties.

(e) Any single Unencumbered Pool Property which has an Unencumbered Pool
Value that is greater than 15% of the total value of all Unencumbered Pool
Properties shall, for the purposes of determining Maximum Loan Availability,
only be accorded a value in an amount equal to 15% of the total value of all
Unencumbered Pool Properties, except that the foregoing, limit shall, as to
the South Bank Property (being that Property located at 111 West Crockett,
San Antonio, Texas 78205) be increased to 25% of the total value of all
Unencumbered Pool Properties. 

8.  CONCENTRATIONS . Section 7.19 of the Loan Agreement shall be and hereby is deleted
and the following shall be and hereby is inserted in lieu thereof:

At no time shall Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis,
derive more than 15% of its aggregate Net Operating Income from any single
tenant (other than CVS), nor shall Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a
consolidated basis, derive more that 18% of its aggregate Net Operating
Income from CVS. Any tenant entities whose financial reporting is, in
accordance with GAAP, consolidated shall, for the purposes of the foregoing
covenant, be deemed a  single tenant. 

9.  MINIMUM TANGIBLE NET WORTH . Section 8.1 of the Loan Agreement shall be and hereby
is deleted and the following shall be and hereby is inserted in lieu thereof:

Borrower shall not at any time permit the Tangible Net Worth of Borrower
and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to be less than (a)
$158,000,000.00,  plus  (b) 90% of the amount of proceeds in cash or
Property (net of transaction costs) received by Borrower from the sale or
issuance by Borrower of Shares, options, warrants or other Equity Interests
of any class or character after June 30, 2005. 

10.  RATIOS OF TOTAL LIABILITIES TO GROSS ASSET VALUE . The provisions of Section 8.2 of
the Loan Agreement, as modified by the Fifth Modification, shall be and hereby are deleted and the
following shall be and hereby are inserted in lieu thereof:

Borrower shall not at any time permit the ratio of (a) Total
Liabilities of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated
basis, to (b) Gross Asset Value of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on
a consolidated basis to exceed 0.60 to 1.00. 

11.  RATIO OF EBITDA TO INTEREST EXPENSE . The provisions of Section 8.4 of the Loan
Agreement shall be and hereby are deleted and the following provisions shall be and hereby are
inserted in lieu thereof:

Borrower shall not permit the ratio of (a) EBITDA of Borrower and
its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to (b) Interest Expense
of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, for any
fiscal quarter to be less than 2.00 to 1.00.

12.  RATIO OF EBITDA TO FIXED CHARGES . The provisions of Section 8.5 of the Loan
Agreement, as modified by the Fourth Modification, shall be and hereby are deleted and the
following provisions shall be and hereby are inserted in lieu thereof:

Borrower shall not permit the ratio of (a) EBITDA of Borrower and
its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to (b) the Fixed Charges
of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, for any
fiscal quarter to be less than 1.75 to 1.00 for such quarter.

13.  NOTICES.  The provisions of Section 10.1 of the Loan Agreement shall be and hereby
are deleted and the following provisions shall be and hereby are inserted in lieu thereof:

All notices, requests and other communications to any party under
the Loan Documents shall be in writing (including facsimile
transmission or similar writing) and shall be given to such party as
follows:

If to Borrower:

AmREIT

Eight Greenway Plaza, Suite 1000 
Houston, Texas 77046  Attention:
Mr., Kerr Taylor  Telecopier: (713) 850-0498  Telephone: (713) 850-1400

With a copy of any notice of default to:

Wilson, Cribbs   Goren, P.C.  2500
Fannin  Houston, Texas 77002  Attn: Reid C. Wilson 
Telecopier: (713) 229-8824  Telephone: (713) 222-9000

If to Lender:

Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 
Minneapolis Loan Center  733 Marquette Avenue,
10 th 
Floor  Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402  Attention: Disbursement
Administrator  Telecopier: (866) 720-0617  Telephone: (612) 667-4507

with a copy to:

Wells Fargo Bank, National Association  1000
Louisiana, 4th Floor  Houston, Texas 77002-5093  Attention: Loan Administration 
Telecopier: (713) 739-1077  Telephone: (713) 319-1414

or as to each party at such other address as such party shall
designate in a written notice to the other parties. Each such
notice, request or other communication shall be effective (a) if
given by mail, 72 hours after such communication is deposited in the
United States Mail, certified with return receipt requested, postage
prepaid, addressed as aforesaid or (b) if given by any other means
(including facsimile), when received at the applicable address
provided for in this Section; provided that notices to Lender under
Article 2, and any notice of a change of address for notices, shall
not be effective until received. 

14.  GUARANTORS . The execution of this Agreement is joined in by AMREIT OPERATING
CORPORATION and AMREIT REALTY INVESTMENT CORPORATION, each as a Guarantor, for the purposes of (i)
evidencing Guarantors  consent to the modifications to the Loan Documents evidenced by this
Agreement, (ii) confirming to Lender that Guarantors  obligations to Lender as set forth in the
Guaranty dated September 4, 2003, executed and delivered by Guarantor to Lender are ratified and
declared to be in full force and effect, and (iii) evidencing their joinder in releasing Lender and
waiving claims as set forth in Section 17 hereof.

15.  REAFFIRMATIONS . Borrower hereby reaffirms to Lender each of the representations,
warranties, covenants and agreements of Borrower set forth in the Loan Documents.

16.  ENFORCEABLE OBLIGATIONS . Borrower hereby ratifies, affirms, reaffirms,
acknowledges, confirms and agrees that the Loan Documents represent valid and enforceable
obligations of Borrower, and Borrower further acknowledges that there are no existing claims,
defenses, personal or otherwise, or rights of setoff whatsoever with respect to the Second

Amended Note, and Borrower further acknowledges and represents that no event has occurred and no
condition exists which would constitute a default under the Loan Documents or this Agreement,
either with or without notice or lapse of time, or both.

17.   RELEASE AND WAIVER OF CLAIMS  .  In consideration of (i) the modification of
certain provisions of the Loan Documents, as herein provided, and (ii) the other benefits received
by Borrower hereunder, Borrower and Guarantor, each for themselves, hereby RELEASE, RELINQUISH and
forever DISCHARGE Lender, as well as its predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, officers,
directors, employees and representatives, of and from any and all claims, demands, actions and
causes of action of any and every kind or character, past or present, which either may have against
Lender and its predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, officers, directors, employees
and representatives arising out of or with respect to (a) any right or power to bring any claim
against Lender for usury or to pursue any cause of action against Lender based on any claim of
usury, and (b) any and all transactions relating to the Loan Documents occurring prior to the date
hereof, including any loss, cost or damage, of any kind or character, arising out of or in any way
connected with or in any way resulting from the acts, actions or omissions of Lender, and its
predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, officers, directors, employees and representatives,
including any breach of fiduciary duty, breach of any duty of fair dealing, breach of confidence,
breach of funding commitment, undue influence, duress, economic coercion, conflict of
interest, negligence, bad faith, malpractice, intentional or negligent infliction of mental
distress, tortious interference with contractual relations, tortious interference with corporate
governance or prospective business advantage, breach of contract, deceptive trade practices,
libel, slander or conspiracy, but in each case only to the extent permitted by applicable law. 

18.  MISCELLANEOUS .

(a) 
       
     As modified hereby, the provisions of the Loan Documents shall continue in full
force and effect, and the Borrower acknowledges and reaffirms its liability to Lender
thereunder. In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and the terms of
the Loan Documents, this Agreement shall govern. 

(b) 
       
     Borrower hereby agrees to pay all costs and expenses incurred by Lender in
connection with the execution and administration of this Agreement and the modification
of the Loan Documents including, but not limited to, all reasonable legal fees incurred
by Lender. 

(c) 
       
     Any default by Borrower in the performance of its obligations herein contained
shall constitute a default under the Loan Documents and shall allow Lender to exercise
all of its remedies set forth in the Loan Documents. 

(d) 
       
     In case any of the provisions of this Agreement shall for any reason be held to
be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability
shall not affect any other provision hereof, and this Agreement shall be construed as
if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein. 

(e) 
       
     This Agreement and the Loan Documents shall be governed and construed according to the
laws of the State of Texas (without regard to any conflict of laws principles) and the
applicable laws of the United States. 

(f) 
       
     This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Lender, Borrower and their
respective successors, assigns and legal representatives. 

(g) 
       
     Borrower hereby acknowledges and agrees that it has entered into this Agreement of its own
free will and accord and in accordance with its own judgment after advice of its own legal
counsel, and states that it has not been induced to enter into this Agreement by any
statement, act or representation of any kind or character on the part of the parties hereto,
except as expressly set forth in this Agreement. 

(h) 
       
     This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall constitute an
original instrument, but all of which shall constitute one and the same agreement. 

(i) 
       
      ENTIRE AGREEMENT . THIS AGREEMENT, TOGETHER WITH THE LOAN AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER
LOAN DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED
BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE
ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES. THIS INSTRUMENT MAY BE AMENDED ONLY BY
AN INSTRUMENT IN WRITING EXECUTED BY THE PARTIES HERETO. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Borrower and Lender have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of
the date first above written.

LENDER  

WELLS FARGO BANK 

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 

By: 
Name:

/s/ Timothy P. Williamson

Timothy P. Williamson

Title:

Senior Vice President 

BORROWER  

AmREIT, 

a Texas Real Estate Investment Trust 

By: 
Name:

/s/ Chad Braun

Chad Braun

Title:

Executive Vice President 

GUARANTORS  

AMREIT OPERATING CORPORATION, 

a Texas corporation 

By: 
Name:

/s/ Chad Braun

Chad Braun

Title:

Vice President 

AMREIT REALTY INVESTMENT CORPORATION, 

a Texas corporation 

By: 
Name:

/s/ Chad Braun

Chad Braun

Title:

Vice President 

EXHIBIT  A 

FORM OF FOURTH AMENDED AND RESTATED REVOLVING PROMISSORY NOTE

FOURTH AMENDED AND RESTATED REVOLVING NOTE 

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, AmREIT, a Texas Real Estate Investment Trust
( Borrower ), hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the order of Wells Fargo Bank, National
Association (the  Lender ), at its Lending Office at Wells Fargo Bank, National Association,
Minneapolis Loan Center, 733 Marquette Avenue, 10 th  Floor. Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402
or at such other address as may be specified by Lender to Borrower, the principal sum of FORTY
MILLION AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($40,000,000.00), or such lesser amount as may be the then outstanding
and unpaid balance of all the Loans made by Lender to the Borrower pursuant to, and in accordance
with the terms of, the Credit Agreement (hereinafter defined).

The Borrower further agrees to pay interest at said Lending Office, in like money, on the
unpaid principal amount owing hereunder from time to time on the dates and at the rates and at the
times specified in the Credit Agreement.

This Fourth Amended and Restated Revolving Note (the  Revolving Note ) is given in
modification and decrease of that certain Third Amended and Restated Revolving Note dated December
21, 2004, executed and delivered by Borrower to Lender in the original principal amount of
FORTY-ONE MILLION AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($41,000,000.00) and from and after the date of this
Revolving Note shall constitute the  Revolving Note  referred to in that certain Revolving Credit
Agreement dated as of September 4, 2003 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified
from time to time, the  Credit Agreement ), by and between the Borrower and Lender, and is subject
to, and entitled to, all provisions and benefits thereof. Capitalized terms used herein and not
defined herein shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Credit Agreement. The
Credit Agreement, among other things, (a) provides for the making of Loans by Lender to Borrower
from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the Dollar amount
first above mentioned, (b) permits the prepayment of the Loans by the Borrower subject to certain
terms and conditions and (c) provides for the acceleration of the Loans upon the occurrence of
certain specified events.

It is expressly stipulated and agreed to be the intent of Borrower and Lender at all times to
comply strictly with the applicable Texas law (or applicable United States federal law to the
extent that it permits Lender to contract for, charge, take, reserve or receive a greater amount of
interest than under Texas law) governing the maximum rate or amount of interest payable on this
Revolving Note or the Related Indebtedness (hereinafter defined). If the applicable law is ever
judicially interpreted so as to render usurious any amount (i) contracted for, charged, taken,
reserved or received pursuant to this Revolving Note, any of the other Loan Documents or any other
communication or writing by or between Borrower and Lender related to the transaction or
transactions that are the subject matter of the Loan Documents, (ii) contracted for, charged or
received by reason of Lender s exercise of the option to accelerate the maturity of this Revolving
Note and/or the Related Indebtedness, or (iii) Borrower will have paid or Lender will have received
by reason of any voluntary prepayment by Borrower of this Revolving Note and/or the Related
Indebtedness, then it is Borrower s and Lender s express intent that all amounts charged in excess
of the Maximum Lawful Rate shall be automatically canceled, ab initio, and all

amounts in excess of the Maximum Lawful Rate theretofore collected by Lender shall be credited on
the principal balance of this Revolving Note and/or the Related Indebtedness (or, if this
Revolving-Note and all Related Indebtedness have been or would thereby be paid in full, refunded to
Borrower), and the provisions of this Revolving Note and the other Loan Documents immediately be
deemed reformed and the amounts thereafter collectible hereunder and thereunder reduced, without
the necessity of the execution of any new document, so as to comply with the applicable law, but so
as to permit the recovery of the fullest amount otherwise called for hereunder and thereunder;
provided, however, if this Revolving Note has been paid in full before the end of the stated term
of this Revolving Note, then Borrower and Lender agree that Lender shall, with reasonable
promptness after Lender discovers or is advised by Borrower that interest was received in an amount
in excess of the Maximum Lawful Rate, either refund such excess interest to Borrower and/or credit
such excess interest against this Revolving Note and/or any Related Indebtedness then owing by
Borrower to Lender. Borrower hereby agrees that as a condition precedent to any claim seeking usury
penalties against Lender, Borrower will provide written notice to Lender, advising Lender in
reasonable detail of the nature and amount of the violation, and Lender shall have sixty (60) days
after receipt of such notice in which to correct such usury violation, if any, by either refunding
such excess interest to Borrower or crediting such excess interest against this Revolving Note
and/or the Related Indebtedness then owing by Borrower to Lender. All sums contracted for, charged
or received by Lender for the use, forbearance or detention of any debt evidenced by this Revolving
Note and/or the Related Indebtedness shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be amortized
or spread, using the actuarial method, throughout the stated term of this Revolving Note and/or the
Related Indebtedness (including any and all renewal and extension periods) until payment in full so
that the rate or amount of interest on account of this Revolving Note and/or the Related
Indebtedness does not exceed the Maximum Lawful Rate from time to time in effect and applicable to
this Revolving Note and/or the Related Indebtedness for so long as debt is outstanding. In no event
shall the provisions of Chapter 346 of the Texas Finance Code (which regulates certain revolving
credit loan accounts and revolving triparty accounts) apply to this Revolving Note and/or the
Related Indebtedness. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any of the
other Loan Documents, it is not the intention of Lender to accelerate the maturity of any interest
that has not accrued at the time of such acceleration or to collect unearned interest at the time
of such acceleration. Borrower and Lender hereby agree that any and all suits alleging the
contracting for, charging or receiving of usurious interest shall lie in Harris County, Texas, and
each irrevocably waive the right to venue in any other county.

As used herein, the term  Maximum Lawful Rate  shall mean the maximum lawful rate of interest
which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by Lender in accordance with the
applicable laws of the State of Texas (or applicable United States federal law to the extent that
it permits Lender to contract for, charge, take, receive or reserve a greater amount of interest
than under Texas law), taking into account all Charges (as herein defined) made in connection with
the transaction evidenced by this Revolving Note and the other Loan Documents. As used herein, the
term  Charges  shall mean all fees, charges and/or any other things of value, if any, contracted
for, charged, received, taken or reserved by Lender in connection with the transactions relating
to this Revolving Note and the other Loan Documents, which are treated as interest under
applicable law. As used herein, the term  Related Indebtedness  shall mean any and all debt paid
or payable by Borrower to Lender pursuant to the Loan Documents or any other communication or
writing by or between Borrower and Lender

- 2 -

related to the transaction or transactions that are the subject matter of the Loan Documents,
except such debt which has been paid or is payable by Borrower to Lender under the Revolving
Note.

To the extent that Lender is relying on Chapter 303 of the Texas Finance Code to determine the
Maximum Lawful Rate payable on this Revolving Note and/or the Related Indebtedness, Lender will
utilize the weekly ceiling from time to time in effect as provided in such Chapter 303, as amended.
To the extent United States federal law permits Lender to contract for, charge, take, receive or
reserve a greater amount of interest than under Texas law, Lender will rely on United States
federal law instead of such Chapter 303 for the purpose of determining the Maximum Lawful Rate.
Additionally, to the extent permitted by applicable law now or hereafter in effect, Lender may, at
its option and from time to time, utilize any other method of establishing the Maximum Lawful Rate
under such Chapter 303 or under other applicable law by giving notice, if required, to Borrower as
provided by applicable law now or hereafter in effect.

Notwithstanding anything in this Revolving Note to the contrary, if at any time (i) the
interest rate provided for under this Revolving Note or any other Loan Document (the  Stated
Rate ), and (ii) the Charges computed over the full term of this Revolving Note, exceed the
Maximum Lawful Rate, then the rate of interest payable hereunder, together with all Charges, shall
be limited to the Maximum Lawful Rate; provided, however, that any subsequent reduction in the
Stated Rate shall not cause a reduction of the rate of interest payable hereunder below the
Maximum Lawful Rate until the total amount of interest earned
hereunder, together with all
Charges, equals the total amount of interest which would have accrued at the Stated Rate if such
interest rate had at all times been in effect. Changes in the Stated Rate resulting from a
fluctuations in the rates used to calculate the Stated Rate shall be subject to the provisions of
this paragraph.

The holder hereof shall be entitled to the benefits of the other Loan Documents (to the
extent and with the effect as therein provided).

The Borrower hereby waives presentment, demand, protest and notice of any kind, including
without limitation notice of intent to accelerate and notice of acceleration. No failure to
exercise, and no delay in exercising any rights hereunder on the part of the holder hereof shall
operate as a waiver of such rights.

Time is of the essence of this Revolving Note.

THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF
TEXAS.

- 3 -

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed and delivered this Revolving Note as of the
date written above.

AmREIT, 

a Texas Real Estate Investment Trust 

By: 
       
     /s/ Chad Braun

Name:

Chad Braun 

Title:

Executive Vice President 

- 4 -

</EX-10.3>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 h34634exv21w1.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

exv21w1 

AmREIT 
List of subsidiaries 

Exhibit 21.1 

State of  

Entity  
       
      Incorporation / Organization  

AmREIT Plaza in the Park, LP 
AmREIT Realty Investment Corporation 
AmREIT Securities Company 
AmREIT Uptown Park, LP 
Mac Arthur Park, LP

TX 
TX 
TX 
TX 
DE 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 h34634exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF CEO

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

FORM OF SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 302(a) CERTIFICATION 

I, H. Kerr Taylor, Chief Executive Officer, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of AmREIT ( registrant  

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f)and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have: 

a. 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

b. 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of trust managers (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a. 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

b. 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Date:  

March 31, 2006

By: 
       
     /s/ H. Kerr Taylor  

H. Kerr Taylor, Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 h34634exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF CFO

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

FORM OF SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 302(a) CERTIFICATION 

I, Chad C. Braun, Chief Financial Officer, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of AmREIT ( registrant  

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-l5(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have: 

a. 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report
is being prepared; 

b. 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting,
or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed
under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of trust managers (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

a. 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely
to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b. 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 h34634exv32w1.htm
 CEO CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of AmREIT (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the
period ended December 31,2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), I, H. Kerr Taylor, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant
to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

2. 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ H. Kerr Taylor

H. Kerr Taylor 
Chief Executive Officer 
March 31, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 7
 h34634exv32w2.htm
 CFO CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

exv32w2 

EXHIBIT 32.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 , 
 AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of AmREIT (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the
period ended December 31,2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), I, Chad C. Braun, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant
to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

2. 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Chad C. Braun

Chad C. Braun 
Chief Financial Officer 
March 31, 2006

</EX-32.2>

