<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_918962_0001104659-06-021190_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2296393</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>265904</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1572252</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>43</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021190.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331143748
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021190
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			POINDEXTER J B & CO INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000918962
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TRUCK & BUS BODIES [3713]
		IRS NUMBER:				760312814
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	033-75154
		FILM NUMBER:		06727922

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1100 LOUISIANA
		STREET 2:		STE 5400
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77002
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7136559800

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 2:		1100 LOUISIANA STREET SUITE 5400
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77002

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BzFTj6jvTQCIWylnWbxpMUQ64hKhNyYomgV52lm6tYe3J6OeVca75r72VIMwWUbM
 Ljuc0wM2AxNBlC7xQYgYNw==

 0001104659-06-021190.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-2525_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

United States 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C.  20549   

FORM 10-K   

(Mark
one)   

ANNUAL REPORT UNDER SECTION 13
OR 15(d) OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005   

OR   

o     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

For the transition period from                 
to                

Commission file number 333-123598   

J.B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC.   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)  

Delaware   

76-0312814   

(State or other jurisdiction of 
  incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

1100
Louisiana   

  Suite 5400,  

  Houston, Texas 77002  

  (Address of principal executive offices)  

  (Zip Code)  

(713) 
655-9800   

  (Registrant s telephone number, including
area code)  

  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None  

  Name of each
exchange which registered:  None  

  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes   o  No      

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes   o  No      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes      No   o  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. 
See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  (Check
One):  

o    Large accelerated filer        o   
Accelerated filer             Non-accelerated filer 

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act.)  Yes   o  No      

The
aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates as of the last business day of the registrant s most recently
completed second fiscal quarter was $0.00.  

Documents
incorporated by reference.  None  

As
of March 31, 2006, the registrant had 3,059 shares of common stock outstanding.  

J.B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

Table of contents   

PART I    

Item 1.   

Business   

Item 1a.   

Risk Factors   

Item
  1b.   

Unresolved
  Staff Comments   

Item 2.   

Properties   

Item 3.   

Legal
  Proceedings   

Item
  4.   

Submission
  of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

PART II    

Item
  5.   

Market
  for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer   Purchases of
  Equity Securities   

Item 6.   

Selected
  Financial Data   

Item
  7.   

Management s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

Item 7a.   

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk   

Item 8.   

Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data   

Item 9.   

Changes in and
  Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

Item 9a.   

Controls and
  Procedures   

Item 9b.   

Other
  Information   

Part III    

Item 10.   

Directors and
  Executive Officers of the Registrant   

Item 11.   

Executive
  Compensation   

Item 12.   

Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters   

Item 13.   

Certain
  Relationships and Related Transactions   

Item 14.   

Principal
  Accountant Fees and Services   

Part IV    

Item 15.   

Exhibits and
  Financial Statement Schedules   

1  

PART I   

Item 1.                    Business   

Overview   

We operate primarily transportation-related
manufacturing businesses.  Our operating
subsidiaries are Morgan Corporation ( Morgan ), Morgan Olson Corporation ( Morgan
Olson ), Truck Accessories Group, Inc., ( Truck Accessories ), EFP Corporation
( EFP ), MIC Group Inc., ( MIC Group ) and Federal Coach LLC., ( Federal Coach ).  Effective January 3, 2006 we acquired Eagle
Specialty Vehicles, Inc. ( Eagle Coach , f/k/a Kellerman Coach Inc.) that
together with Federal Coach comprise the Specialty Vehicle Group.  The Specialty Vehicle Group, MIC Group and
EFP comprise our Specialty Manufacturing Division ( Specialty Manufacturing ,
f/k/a Specialty Manufacturing Group).  

Unless the context otherwise requires, the  Company ,
 we ,  our  or  us  refers to J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. ( JBPCO )
together with its consolidated subsidiaries. We are wholly-owned by John
Poindexter.  

During March 2004, we
issued $125 million in aggregate principal amount of 8.75% senior notes
due 2014 ( 8.75% Notes ). With the proceeds of that offering we redeemed the
$76 million in aggregate principle amount of the then outstanding 12.50%
senior secured notes due 2007, paid accrued interest of approximately
$4 million and repaid outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit
facilities and other loans of approximately $37 million.  At the same time as the issuance of
$125 million in aggregate principal amount of 8.75% Notes, we entered into
a new $30 million revolving credit facility with a new lender. We currently
have no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility.  In May 2004 and January 2005, we issued
an additional $30 million and $45 million, respectively, in aggregate
principal amount of our 8.75% Notes, the proceeds from which increased our cash
balances.  On June 6, 2005, we acquired
100% of the ownership interests in Federal Coach LLC, and subsequent to
December 31, 2005 we acquired 100% of the stock of Eagle Coach and 100% of the
stock of State Wide Aluminum, Inc.  

We operate our business in four
different segments: Morgan, Morgan Olson, Truck Accessories and Specialty
Manufacturing. Please see footnote 3 of our financial statements included
herein for a description of financial information by segments.  

Morgan   

We believe Morgan is the
leading United States manufacturer of commercial truck bodies for medium duty
trucks in terms of 2005 sales. Morgan generally manufactures products for
medium duty trucks having a gross vehicular weight rating of between 10,001
pounds (Class 3) and 33,000 pounds (Class 7). Trucks equipped with Morgan s
products are commonly used in a wide variety of applications, including general
freight deliveries, moving and storage and distribution of refrigerated
consumables. Morgan also offers service programs for its truck bodies.  

Morgan reaches a broad base of
customers in the United States and Canada through its sales force and its more
than 180 authorized dealers and distributors. Its customers include rental
companies, truck dealers, leasing companies and companies that operate fleets
of delivery vehicles. Through nine manufacturing plants and seven service
facilities in strategic locations throughout North America, Morgan can provide
timely product delivery and service to its customers.  

The principal products Morgan manufactures and sells
are:  

dry
freight bodies that are typically fabricated with pre-painted aluminum or
fiberglass-reinforced plywood panels, hardwood floors and various door
configurations to accommodate end-user loading and unloading requirements; 

2  

refrigerated
van bodies fabricated with insulated aluminum or fiberglass-reinforced
plywood panels that accommodate controlled temperature and refrigeration needs
of end-users; 

aluminum
or fiberglass-reinforced plywood cutaway van bodies that are installed
only on cutaway chassis and are available with or without access to the cargo
area from the cab; and 

stake
bodies, which are flatbeds with various configurations of removable sides. 

Morgan manufactures its
products to customer specifications and installs its products on truck chassis
supplied by its customers.  

Customers and sales.       Morgan principally
generates revenue through three sources:  

sales
of truck bodies to commercial divisions of leasing companies, companies with
fleets of delivery vehicles, truck dealers and distributors ( Commercial 
sales); 

sales
of truck bodies to consumer rental companies ( Consumer Rental  sales); and 

sales
of parts and service. 

Morgan s net sales constituted
51% of our consolidated net sales in 2003, 54% in 2004 and 54% in 2005.  

Morgan makes sales of truck
bodies through its sales force directly to large end-user customers, including
Penske and Ryder, and to distributors and truck dealers. Commercial sales of
truck bodies, not including Consumer Rental sales, constituted 79% of Morgan s
net sales in 2003, 80% in 2004 and 86% in 2005.  

Morgan has an independent
authorized distributor network of 59 distributors nationwide. Most distributors
sell a wide variety of trucks or related equipment to truck dealers and
end-users. Generally, distributors sell Morgan products in a specified
territory with limited exclusivity. 
Morgan also sells its products directly to truck dealers, selling to
more than 120 dealers in 2005.  

Consumer Rental sales are
composed of sales to companies that maintain large fleets of one-way and local
hauling vehicles available for rent to the general public. Morgan makes these
sales through a bid process and negotiation directly with these companies
through its sales force. Primary Consumer Rental customers include Penske and
Budget. Morgan negotiates contracts for Consumer Rental sales annually, usually
in late summer to early fall, with products to be shipped during the first half
of the next year. These sales are seasonal, with substantially all product
shipments occurring the first six months of the year. Consumer Rental sales
tend to be the most volatile and price sensitive aspect of Morgan s business,
and depend on factors such as product mix and delivery schedules. Consumer
Rental sales constituted 14% of Morgan s net sales in 2003, 13% in 2004 and 9%
in 2005.  

Morgan s two largest customers,
Ryder and Penske, have, together, historically represented approximately 35% to
50% of Morgan s total net sales. Each has been Morgan s customer for
approximately 20 years and we believe relations with each are good. Sales
to these customers represented 22% of our consolidated net sales in 2003, 25%
in 2004 and 24% in 2005.  

Morgan offers limited service
programs at its own service facilities and its authorized distributors. Service
sales constituted 6% of Morgan s net sales in 2003, 5% in 2004 and 3% in 2005.  

Manufacturing and
supplies.       Morgan operates
manufacturing, body mounting and parts and service facilities in Arizona,
California, Florida, Georgia, Pennsylvania, Texas, Wisconsin, and Ontario,
Canada. Morgan also has sales, service and body mounting facilities in
Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Pennsylvania, Texas, Wisconsin, and Ontario,
Canada. All of Morgan s domestic manufacturing facilities are ISO 9000
certified.  

3  

Generally, Morgan engineers its
products to the specifications of the customer. Typically, the customer places
an order and arranges for a manufacturer to deliver a truck chassis to Morgan.
Morgan monitors delivery schedules from chassis manufacturers to ensure it has
appropriate levels of labor and materials to fulfill orders. Morgan
manufactures and installs the body on the customer s chassis. The customer or
Morgan arranges for delivery of the completed truck. Morgan s production cycle
ranges from three to seven days for dry freight products and up to 28 days
for more complex refrigerated products.  

Because contracts for Consumer
Rental sales are entered into in the summer or fall but production does not
begin generally until the following January, Morgan has a significant backlog
of Consumer Rental sales orders at the end of each year that is processed
through May of the following year. In addition, Morgan typically maintains a significant
backlog of commercial sales. Morgan s backlog at December 31, 2005 was
$94.7 million compared to $101.7 million at December 31, 2004.
Morgan expects to complete all of the orders in its 2005 backlog during 2006.  

Morgan provides limited warranties
against construction defects in its products. These warranties generally
provide for the replacement or repair of defective parts or workmanship for up
to five years following the date of sale. Warranty costs have not had a
material adverse effect on its business.  

Morgan maintains an inventory
of raw materials necessary to build truck bodies according to customers 
orders. Because Morgan usually manufactures its products to customer orders, it
does not maintain substantial inventories of finished goods.  

Morgan s principal raw
materials include aluminum, steel, fiberglass-reinforced plywood and
hardwood. Morgan acquires raw materials from a variety of sources and has not
experienced significant shortages of materials. There are a limited number of
suppliers of fiberglass-reinforced plywood, an important truck body
material. While Morgan has not experienced a disruption in supply, or a
shortage, of fiberglass-reinforced plywood, such a disruption or shortage
could occur in the future. Morgan may not be able to replace its existing
supply of fiberglass-reinforced plywood on acceptable terms or at all. To
manage its supply costs, Morgan sometimes enters into long-term supply
contracts on principal materials to secure prices for up to one year if
considered necessary.  

Morgan s customers purchase
their truck chassis from major truck manufacturing companies. The delivery of a
chassis to Morgan depends upon truck manufacturers  production schedules.
Although Morgan often can electronically monitor deliveries from chassis
manufacturers and plan its operations accordingly, it cannot control delays or
disruptions in deliveries. Delays or disruptions in chassis deliveries can
disrupt Morgan s operations and can increase its working capital requirements.  

Industry.       Industry revenue and
growth depend primarily on the demand for delivery vehicles in the general
freight, moving and storage, parcel delivery and food distribution industries,
which are affected by general economic conditions. Replacement of older
vehicles in fleets represents an important revenue source with replacement
cycles around six to seven years, depending on vehicle types. During economic
downturns, replacement orders are often deferred or, in some cases, older
vehicles are retired without replacement. During periods of economic growth, as
customers decide to increase their capital expenditures, sales of delivery
trucks grow as customers make purchases they deferred in prior years.  

Competition.       The truck body
manufacturing industry is highly competitive. Morgan competes with three
national manufacturers: Supreme Industries, Inc., Kidron, a division of
Specialized Vehicles Corporation, and Utilimaster Corporation, some of whom may
be larger and have more resources than Morgan. There are a large number of
smaller manufacturers, who are regionally focused. Competitive factors in the
industry include product quality, delivery time, geographic proximity of
manufacturing facilities to customers, warranty terms, service and price. We
believe customers value Morgan s high quality products, competitive pricing and
short delivery times.  

4  

Morgan Olson   

Morgan Olson is one of the
nation s two largest manufacturers of step vans. Step vans are specialized
vehicles designed for multiple stop delivery applications and they enable the
driver of the vehicle to easily access the cargo area of the vehicle from
inside the cab. Step vans are made to customer specifications for use in
parcel, food, vending, uniform, linen and other delivery applications. Morgan
Olson s step van bodies are installed on International, Ford, Freightliner and
Workhorse truck chassis in body sizes ranging from 11 to 30 feet. Morgan Olson
is headquartered in Sturgis, Michigan, where it has manufacturing and parts
distribution facilities.  

Morgan Olson is aggressively
seeking to grow its customer base through increased sales and marketing efforts
and by producing higher quality, competitively-priced products with
shorter delivery times. Morgan Olson has become more competitive in purchasing
raw materials and reducing delivery times by leveraging Morgan s purchasing
power and supplier relationships.  

Morgan Olson s net sales constituted 8%, 12% and 9%
of our consolidated net sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively.  Sales in 2003 were for the six month period
subsequent to the acquisition of the business.  

Customers and sales.       Customers purchase step
vans through dealers and distributors and directly from Morgan Olson through
its direct sales force. Three customers, the United States Postal Service,
United Parcel Service of America, Inc. and FedEx, purchase the majority of
step vans produced in the United States. Morgan Olson s end-user customers
include these three customers along with Frito-Lay, Inc., Bimbo Bakeries
and ARAMARK Corporation. The preferences and purchasing decisions of these
customers will dramatically affect the results of operations of Morgan Olson.  

Morgan Olson also sells step
van body service parts through its dealers and distributors and directly to
customers. Morgan Olson is a major supplier of service parts for step vans
manufactured by it for the United States Postal Service under an agreement of
indefinite term that is reviewed annually. The United States Postal Service has
the right to terminate the agreement for convenience at any time. We believe
Morgan Olson s relationship with the United States Postal Service is good.
However, there can be no assurance that the parts supply agreement will
continue at all or for any length of time.  

Manufacturing and
supplies.       Morgan Olson has ISO
9000 certified manufacturing facilities and parts distribution facilities in
Sturgis, Michigan.  

Generally, Morgan Olson
manufactures its products to customer specifications. Typically, the customer
places an order and arranges for a truck chassis manufacturer to deliver a
truck chassis to Morgan Olson. Morgan Olson manufactures the complete truck
body, including the installation of windows, doors, instrument panels, seating,
wiring, painting and decal application. The customer then arranges for delivery
of the completed truck.  

At December 31, 2005,
Morgan Olson s total backlog was $9.3 million, compared to $8.1 million at
December 31, 2004. We expect that Morgan Olson will fill all 2005 backlog orders
in 2006.  

Morgan Olson maintains an
inventory of raw materials necessary to build step van bodies. Because Morgan
Olson manufactures its products to customer orders, it does not maintain
substantial inventories of finished goods.  

Principal raw materials include
steel and aluminum. Raw materials are acquired from a variety of sources and we
believe that Morgan Olson has not experienced significant shortages of
materials. Morgan Olson has taken advantage of combined purchasing power with
Morgan thereby generating savings on raw materials common to both businesses.  

Morgan Olson s customers
purchase their truck chassis from major truck manufacturing companies. The
delivery of a chassis to Morgan Olson depends upon truck manufacturers 
production schedules, which are beyond Morgan Olson s control. Delays in
chassis deliveries can disrupt Morgan Olson s operations and can increase its
working capital requirements.  

5  

Industry.       Industry revenue and
growth depend primarily on the demand for delivery vehicles, which are affected
by general economic conditions. Because of the concentration of customers in
the industry, the demand for delivery vehicles can be significantly influenced
by the requirements of the United States Postal Service, FedEx and United
Parcel Service. Replacement of older vehicles in fleets represents an important
revenue source, with replacement cycles varying, depending on vehicle types and
usage. During economic downturns, replacement orders are often deferred or, in
some cases, older vehicles are retired without replacement. During periods of
economic growth, as customers decide to increase their capital expenditures,
sales of delivery trucks grow as customers make purchases that were deferred in
prior years.  

Competition.       The step van body
manufacturing industry is highly competitive. Morgan Olson competes with one
other major manufacturer of step van bodies, Utilimaster, which is larger and
may have more resources than Morgan Olson. Competitive factors in the industry
include product quality, delivery time, warranty terms, service and price.  

Truck Accessories   

We believe Truck Accessories is
the leading manufacturer of pickup truck caps and tonneaus in terms of United
States and Canadian combined market share. Truck Accessories markets its
products under the brand names Leer, Raider, LoRider, Century, BoxTop and Pace
Edwards.  

Caps and tonneaus enclose the
beds of pickup trucks, transforming them into secure weatherproof storage
areas. Truck Accessories  truck caps and tonneaus offer customers a variety of
designs and features, allowing them to customize the look and utility of their
pickup trucks. Truck Accessories offers caps and tonneaus in multiple and
distinctive styles with numerous features. Truck Accessories offers three
product lines, ranging from standard to premium, differentiated by features,
styling and brand name.  Pace Edwards
offers a hard tonneau cover that can be mechanically retracted into a storage
area behind the pickup cab.  

Features include cap shape and
design, color and finish, window configurations, roof racks, glass tint, trim,
and interior features such as lighting, carpeting and special gear storage
options. Caps and tonneaus can be designed to target specific customers. For
example, Leer offers lifestyle equipped caps and tonneaus for hunters,
fishermen and outdoors enthusiasts, which are styled and designed, through gear
storage features and product appearance, to appeal to these customers. Through
Truck Accessories  multiple lines of caps and tonneaus, each with numerous
features and options, we believe Truck Accessories is an industry leader in
product innovation and style.  

Truck Accessories  net sales
constituted 28% of our consolidated net sales in 2003, 23% in 2004 and 23% in
2005.  

Customers and sales.       Most of Truck
Accessories  products are purchased by individuals through independent dealers.
Truck Accessories sells its products to dealers through its sales force. Truck
Accessories  network of more than 1,270 independent dealers provides a national
network through which its products are marketed on a non-exclusive basis to
individuals, small businesses and fleet operators. Truck Accessories operates
two retail stores that distribute a wide array of truck accessories
manufactured by a number of other companies and Truck Accessories products.  

Truck Accessories also
manufactures and sells its products in Canada. In 2005, foreign sales
(primarily in Canada) represented approximately 11% of Truck Accessories net sales
and 3% of our consolidated net sales.  

Manufacturing and
supplies.       Truck Accessories
designs and manufactures caps and tonneaus in six manufacturing facilities
located in California, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Washington and Saskatchewan,
Canada. Typical product delivery times range from one to two weeks from the
time of the order. Truck Accessories operates a fleet of trucks and trailers to
deliver its products to its dealers.  

Truck Accessories obtains raw
materials and components from a variety of sources. The most important raw
materials and components include resin, fiberglass, paint, locks, windows and
doors. Truck Accessories has not experienced significant shortages of
materials. Truck Accessories purchases windows for caps from two main suppliers,
and effective March 17, 2006, acquired State Wide Aluminum, one of these
suppliers.  Although the loss  

6  

of the remaining independent
supplier would disrupt production activities until internal production is
increased, we do not believe that such loss would have a material adverse
effect on us.  Truck Accessories has
committed to purchase principally all of its paint requirements through 2008
from one supplier at favorable price terms. 
Truck Accessories has maintained a stable supply of materials and
components on favorable terms, as a result of its size and purchasing power.  

Truck Accessories  products are
typically manufactured upon receipt of an order from the dealer and,
consequently, its backlog represents between one and two weeks production.
Truck Accessories  backlog was $4.0 million at December 31, 2005
compared to $4.5 million at December 31, 2004.  

Industry.       Sales of caps and
tonneaus correspond to the level of new pickup truck sales. In 2005, we
estimate that 18% to 20% of new pickup trucks were equipped with caps and
tonneaus. Based on Truck Accessories  market share in the United States and
Canada of approximately 39%, we estimate that approximately 8% of new pickup
trucks are equipped with Truck Accessories  caps and tonneaus. Factors
influencing the automotive industry, including general economic conditions,
customer preferences, new model introductions, interest rates and fuel costs
will directly influence Truck Accessories  business. Cap and tonneau sales are
seasonal, with sales typically being higher in the spring and fall than in the
winter and summer.  

Competition.       The pickup truck cap and
tonneau industry is highly competitive. Truck Accessories competes with one
other national competitor, A.R.E., Inc., and a number of smaller companies
that are regionally focused. Competitive factors include design, features,
delivery times, product availability, warranty terms, quality and price. Based
on the number of products and features it offers, and its ability to quickly
supply product for newly introduced pickup truck models, we believe Truck
Accessories is the industry leader in design and accessory options.  

Specialty Manufacturing   

Specialty Manufacturing is
comprised of Specialty Vehicle Group, MIC Group and EFP. Specialty Vehicle
Group s sales were exclusively the sales of Federal Coach which in turn
represented approximately 24% of Specialty Manufacturing s net sales in 2005
for the six month period after Federal Coach s acquisition.  Specialty Vehicle Group is now comprised of
Federal Coach, acquired June 6, 2005, and Eagle Coach, acquired January 2,
2006, and it mainly manufactures funeral coaches that serve approximately 40%
of the domestic funeral coach market. 
Specialty Vehicle Group also manufactures limousines and specialized
transit buses.  MIC Group represents
approximately 46% of Specialty Manufacturing s net sales and provides contract
manufacturing services for customers requiring precision metal parts and
machining and casting services. EFP represents approximately 30% of Specialty
Manufacturing s net sales and manufactures and sells expandable foam plastics
engineered to customer specifications for use by the automotive, electronics,
construction, recreational vehicle and appliance industries as packaging, shock
absorbing, insulating, material handling and structural component products.
Specialty Manufacturing s sales made up 13% of our consolidated net sales in
2003, 11% in 2004 and 14% in 2005.  

Products.                   Specialty
Vehicle Group manufactures a full line of funeral coaches, family cars,
limousines and specialized buses.                Family
cars are modified limousines for use in funerals.     

MIC Group is a contract
manufacturer that produces precision metal parts used in energy exploration and
production, aerospace and other industries and performs machining and casting
services for manufacturers of metal parts and components.  

EFP manufactures and sells
material handling products including shock-absorbing packaging material,
reusable trays and containers that are used for transporting components to or
from a customer s manufacturing facility, and components used in automobile and
recreational vehicle applications and other applications including a
proprietary line of its StyroCast  foam foundry patterns used by foundries in
the  lost foam  or evaporative metal casting process.  

7  

Customers and sales.          Specialty
Vehicle Group manufactures and sells its full line of funeral coaches,
limousines and specialized buses to its end users, such as livery companies,
and approximately 28 authorized dealers. 
Its largest customer represented approximately 4% of the total net sales
of Specialty Manufacturing in 2005.     

MIC Group sells products to
international oilfield service companies and a variety of businesses in various
industries. One oilfield service customer represented approximately 15% of the
total sales of Specialty Manufacturing in 2003, 18% in 2004 and 15% in 2005.  

EFP s customer base includes various
companies that require special packaging materials for their products, as well
as servicing particular needs of companies in the automotive industry.       One
particular customer represented approximately 5% of the total sales of
Specialty Manufacturing in 2003, 7% in 2004 and 3% in 2005.     

We consider relations with
Specialty Manufacturing s customers to be good.  

Manufacturing and
supplies.       Specialty Manufacturing s
operations are located in Alabama, Arkansas, Indiana, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas
and Wisconsin. Its facilities in Alabama, Indiana and Texas are ISO 9000
certified and its facility in Wisconsin is QS 9000 certified.  

Specialty Vehicle Group
engineers its product to its own specifications as well as those of chassis
manufacturer in order to maintain the original equipment manufacturer s
warranty.  Specialty Vehicle Group takes
delivery of a truck chassis or a modified sedan, usually manufactured by the
Cadillac division of General Motors or the Lincoln division of Ford, and will
modify it to its specifications.  Bus
bodies are built on the chassis, funeral coaches and limousines are
manufactured from the modified sedan by removing the contents, lengthening the
body and building the required vehicle. 
The production process typically takes between four to six weeks.   Specialty Vehicle Group utilizes metals, polymer resins, wood,
fiberglass, and petrochemical based products (paints, plastics, sealants and
lubricants) and participates in the paint supply contract negotiated by Truck
Accessories. 

MIC Group performs a broad
range of services including computer-controlled precision machining and
welding, electrostatic discharge machining, electron beam welding, trepanning,
gun drilling and investment casting. MIC Group utilizes ferrous and non-ferrous
materials including stainless steel, alloy steels, nickel-based alloys,
titanium, brass, beryllium-copper alloys and aluminum.  

EFP s products are manufactured
from a wide variety of materials including expandable polystyrene,
polypropylene, polyethylene and resins which are subject to cost fluctuations
based on changes to the price of oil in the international markets.  

Specialty Manufacturing s backlog at December 31,
2005 was $35.7 million compared to $12.6 million at December 31,
2004.   Materials
are obtained from a variety of sources and Specialty Manufacturing has not
experienced significant shortages in materials.   

Industry.          Specialty
Vehicle Group s funeral products are used by funeral operators, and sales
generally increase with the introduction of new models by the OEM.  The VIP limousines and small to medium sized
buses are purchased by livery companies, churches and small tour bus operators
whose businesses are influenced by the general economy.     

MIC Group s services are
particularly demanded by companies involved in oil and gas exploration. The
demand for equipment and services supplied to the oilfield service industry
and, in turn, sales of related manufactured parts are directly correlated to
the level of worldwide oil and gas drilling activity.  

The majority of EFP s products
are manufactured for use by other industries; economic conditions that affect
those other industries will generally affect its operations.  

8  

In particular, growth or a
downturn in the general economy, specifically the entertainment, automotive,
electronics, furniture or appliance industries generally would have a
corresponding effect on Specialty Manufacturing s business.  

Competition.          Specialty
Vehicles competes with one other major manufacturer of funeral coaches and with
a number of other businesses engaged in the manufacture of limousines and     passenger shuttle/executive buses. 

MIC Group competes with a large
number of other businesses engaged in the machining, casting and manufacturing
of parts and equipment utilized in the oil and gas exploration, aerospace and
general industries.  

EFP competes with a large
number of other molded, expandable plastic producers. Some of its competitors
may be larger and have more resources.  

Price, delivery times,
technological know-how, design and capacity are the primary competitive factors
in Specialty Manufacturing s industries.  

Trademarks and patents   

We own rights to certain
presentations of Truck Accessories  Leer brand name, which we believe are
valuable because we believe that Leer is recognized as being a leading brand
name.  We own rights to the Federal Coach
name.  We also own rights to certain
other trademarks and trade names, including certain presentations of Morgan s
name. Although these and other trademarks and trade names used by us help
customers differentiate our product lines from those of competitors, we believe
that the trademarks or trade names themselves are less important to customers
than the quality of the products and services. Our subsidiaries, principally
Morgan, EFP and Eagle Coach, hold, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries,
patents on certain products and components used in the manufacturing processes.
We do not believe that the loss of any one patent would have a material adverse
effect on us.  

Employees   

At December 31, 2005, we
had approximately 4,000 full-time employees and an average of 3,600 full time
employees throughout the year. Personnel are unionized in EFP s Decatur,
Alabama facility (covering approximately 60 persons, with a contract expiring
in August 2006) and Truck Accessories  Raider Industries facilities in
Canada (covering approximately 214 persons, with a contract that expires in
April 2008). We believe that relations with our employees are good.  

Environmental matters   

Our operations are subject to a variety of federal,
state and local environmental, and health and safety statutes and regulations,
including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to water,
treatment, storage and disposal of waste and remediation of contaminated sites.
In certain cases, these requirements may limit the productive capacity of  our  operations. Certain laws, including the
Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980, as amended ( Superfund ) impose strict, and under certain circumstances,
joint and several, liability for costs to remediate contaminated sites upon
designated responsible parties including site owners or operators and, persons
who dispose of wastes at, or transport wastes to, such sites. Some of our
operations also require permits which may restrict our activities and which are
subject to renewal, modification or revocation by issuing authorities. In
addition, we generate non-hazardous wastes, which are also subject to
regulation under applicable environmental laws.  

From time to time, we have
received notices of noncompliance with respect to our operations which have
typically been resolved by investigating the alleged noncompliance, correcting
any noncompliant conditions and paying minor fines, none of which individually
or in the aggregate has had a material adverse effect on us.    Further, we cannot ensure that we have been or will be at all times in
compliance with all of these requirements, including those related to reporting
or permit restrictions or that it will not incur material fines, penalties,
costs or liabilities 

9  

in connection with such requirements or a failure to
comply with them.   However, we expect that the nature of our
operations will continue to make us subject to increasingly stringent
environmental regulatory standards. Although we believe we have made sufficient
capital expenditures to maintain compliance with existing laws and regulations,
future expenditures may be necessary, as compliance standards and technology
change or as unanticipated circumstances arise. Unforeseen and significant
expenditures required, for example, to comply with new or more aggressively
enforced requirements or newly discovered conditions could limit expansion or
otherwise have a material adverse effect on the our business and financial
condition.   

Morgan Olson s two manufacturing sites in Sturgis,
Michigan overlie, or are in close proximity to, a regional plume of volatile
organic compound groundwater contamination. Available information indicates
that one of the sites was a likely source of part of the groundwater
contamination, and that groundwater contamination is present under the second
site. In August 2003, Morgan Olson submitted applications for Baseline
Environmental Assessments for each site to the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality ( MDEQ ). In October 2003, the MDEQ accepted these
applications and granted to it a liability exemption for any pre-acquisition
releases of volatile organic compounds from these sites that may have
contributed to the regional groundwater contamination subject to certain
conditions, including an agreement not to use chlorinated solvents and to
implement certain engineering controls to minimize future releases at the
sites. Based on the granting of the liability exemption, Morgan Olson does not
believe that it has any responsibility for the investigation or remediation of
the regional groundwater contamination. However, the exemption does not apply
to other applicable laws or regulations, and there can be no guarantee that
newly discovered conditions or future activities at the sites will not result
in significant costs.  

In
June 2005, Morgan Olson was notified by the MDEQ that it had failed to file
certain reports related to its air permit, wastewater discharge, and chemical
inventory.  Morgan Olson is in
discussions with MDEQ to correct and settle these alleged violations.  At this point it is not known if the MDEQ
will take enforcement action against it, and the financial impact of such an
enforcement action, if any, cannot be estimated. The ultimate financial impact
is not expected to be material, however.  

In
July 2005, Morgan notified the United States Environmental Protection Agency ( USEPA )
that it had failed to file certain reports required pursuant to Section 313 of
the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, and regulations
promulgated there under.  All necessary
reports were subsequently completed and filed with the USEPA.  At this point Morgan does not know if the
USEPA will take enforcement action against it, and the financial impact of such
an enforcement action, if any, cannot be estimated but could be material.  

In
January 2006, EFP Corporation was notified by the Tennessee Department of
Environment and Conservation ( TN DEC ) that a penalty was being assessed
related to an inspection in January 2005 that indicated it had failed to
maintain proper records and to file a report related to its air permit.  EFP immediately updated its records and
confirmed the report filing and are in discussions with TN DEC to settle these
alleged violations.  The proposed penalty
is $6,000 and is not considered material.  

Reports to Security Holders   

Since
all of the Company s equity securities are privately held, the Company is not
required by the SEC s proxy rules or regulations, or stock exchange
requirements, to send an annual report to security holders. Nonetheless, the
Company will send to each security holder annually a copy of its Annual Report
on Form 10-K and quarterly a copy of each Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  

Item 1A.                 Risk Factors   

An investment in our securities is subject to a
number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in
evaluating this investment. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks
and uncertainties that we do not know about now or that we do not think are
important, could seriously harm our business and financial results and cause
the value of our securities to decline, which in turn could cause investors to
lose all or part of their investment.  

10  

Our businesses are highly cyclical. An economic
downturn could adversely affect our ability to generate cash and make required
payments on our debt.   

Our
business depends on various factors that are particularly sensitive to general
economic conditions, including:  

corporate profitability; 

     interest rates; 

     fuel costs; 

     consumer preferences; 

     consumer spending patterns; 

     sales of truck chassis and new pickup
trucks; and 

     levels of oil and gas exploration activity. 

In
addition, we sell our products to customers in inherently cyclical industries,
such as the trucking industry and the energy services industry, which
experience significant downturns which could result in lower demand for our
products. As a result of an economic recession and adverse conditions in the
trucking and energy services industries, we experienced substantially lower sales
in our Morgan segment during 2001 and 2002 that rebounded in 2003. We
experienced substantially lower sales in our Specialty Manufacturing segment in
2002, which did not rebound until 2004. As a result of these conditions, we did
not project to have enough cash to be able to pay the holders of our unsecured
senior notes, initially issued by us in 1994, when they were due to mature in
2004. We therefore exchanged these unsecured notes for certain secured notes in
June 2003 and extended the maturity to 2007. These secured notes were
subsequently redeemed by us in March 2004. Another prolonged economic
downturn or recession would result in a significant decrease in our sales and
would materially and adversely affect our operating cash flows and our ability
to make required payments on our debt.  

Demand for our truck body products depends largely on
the replacement cycle of delivery trucks.   

Morgan
and Morgan Olson produce and sell truck bodies for new delivery trucks,
primarily in the general freight, moving and storage, parcel delivery and
distribution industries. Demand for these products is driven by customers
deciding to replace older vehicles in their delivery truck fleets. These
customers often decide to postpone their purchases of new delivery trucks during
economic downturns. During the most recent economic downturn, Morgan s sales
decreased substantially, as a result of lower demand from its truck dealer,
truck leasing and truck fleet customers.  

If
economic conditions or other factors, including longer useful lives of delivery
trucks, cause our customers to reduce their capital expenditures and decrease
investments in their delivery truck fleets, our sales would be materially and
adversely affected. As a result, our ability to generate cash and make required
payments on our debt would be materially and adversely affected.  

The cyclicality of pickup truck sales could cause a
decline in Truck Accessories  sales.   

Truck
Accessories  sales depend highly on the sales of new pickup trucks in North
America. A decline in pickup truck sales would likely cause a decline in Truck
Accessories  sales, which would materially and adversely affect our ability to
generate cash and make required payments on our debt. The automotive industry
and sales of pickup trucks are characterized by periodic fluctuations in demand
for vehicles due to, among other things, changes in general economic
conditions, interest rates, fuel costs, new model introductions, consumer
spending levels and consumer preferences. These fluctuations generally result
in corresponding fluctuations in demand for Truck Accessories  products.  

We have a substantial amount of debt
outstanding and can incur more debt, which could hurt our future prospects,
limit cash flow available from our operations and prevent us from fulfilling
our obligations under the 8.75% Notes and our other debt obligations.   

We are significantly leveraged and will continue to be significantly
leveraged. We had $9.7 million of stockholder's equity at December 31, 2005
compared to $4.6 million at December 31, 2004. Of our debt, $3.4 million is
secured indebtedness and capital lease obligations. In addition, we had $29.7
million of secured debt available to borrow under our revolving credit
facility. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt
in the future.  

We may not be able to compete favorably in our
industries.   

We
face direct competition in each of our product lines. Some competitors may have
greater financial and other resources than we have. We face competition from
existing competitors with entrenched positions and could face  

11  

competition
from new competitors. Changes in the nature of our industries and our business
could bring competition from different sources. We could face competition in
our truck body business from competitors producing truck bodies constructed
from materials other than fiberglass-reinforced plywood or aluminum. Pickup
truck manufacturers could determine to produce their own truck caps and
tonneaus in competition with us.  

Although
we face a small number of competitors in some of our businesses, we face
significant competition in these areas. The principal competitive factors
include price, quality, delivery terms, service, production capacity,
technological know-how, product design and innovation. We may not be able to
compete successfully in our industries. Increased competition may have a
material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and ability to make
required payments on our debt by reducing our sales or margins.  

Most of our businesses rely on a small number of
customers, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.   

Most
of our businesses rely on a small number of customers to generate significant
revenues.  

Morgan s two largest customers, Penske and
Ryder, together accounted for 41% of Morgan s net sales in 2003, 46% in 2004
and 47% in 2005 and accounted for 22% of our consolidated net sales during
2003, 25% in 2004 and 24% in 2005. 

One customer accounted for 15% of Specialty
Manufacturing s net sales during 2003, 18% in 2004 and 15% in 2005. 

Our top ten customers accounted for 34% of
our consolidated net sales in 2003, 40% in 2004 and 35% in 2005. 

Because
of the relative importance of a few large customers and the high degree of
concentration in the industries we serve, we are subject to a high degree of
risk. We may not be able to maintain these customer relationships or maintain
our historical levels of sales to these customers. Because of the size and
importance of these customers, these customers may be able to exert pressure on
us to lower our prices, which may reduce our margins and operating cash flow.
If one of these customers were to experience financial difficulties, our
ability to collect receivables from it or generate new sales to it would be
materially and adversely affected. The loss of, or significant reduction of
business from, any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on
our ability to generate cash and make required payments on our debt.  

Disruptions in delivery of truck chassis to us could
impact the profitability of our business.   

Morgan
and Morgan Olson mount their truck bodies on truck chassis delivered from truck
chassis manufacturers. If truck chassis manufacturers experience disruptions in
their businesses, Morgan and Morgan Olson may be unable to sell or deliver
their products. Several of the largest manufacturers of truck chassis have
unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by the large
truck manufacturers that supply truck chassis could result in delays or
slowdowns in our ability to deliver products to our customers. As a result, our
sales, operating cash flows and ability to make required payments on our debt
could be materially and adversely affected.  

Environmental and health and safety liabilities and
requirements could require us to incur material costs.   

Our
operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental
and health and safety statutes and regulations, including those relating to
emissions to the air, discharges to water, treatment, storage and disposal of
waste and remediation of contaminated sites. In certain cases, these
requirements may limit the productive capacity of our operations. Certain laws,
including the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act of 1980, as amended ( Superfund ) impose strict, and under
certain  

12  

circumstances,
joint and several, liability for costs to remediate contaminated sites upon
designated responsible parties including site owners or operators and, persons
who dispose of wastes at, or transport wastes to, such sites.  

From
time to time, we have received notices of noncompliance with respect to our
operations, which have typically been resolved by investigating the alleged
noncompliance, correcting any noncompliant conditions and the payment of minor
fines. We have from time to time been identified as a potentially responsible party,
or a PRP, at various Superfund sites, which, based on available information, we
do not expect to result in material liability. However, new environmental
requirements or more aggressive enforcement of existing ones or discovery of
presently unknown conditions could require material expenditures or result in
liabilities which could limit expansion or otherwise have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and our
ability to make required payments on our debt.  

For
a description of current environmental issues, see  Item 1.   Business   Environmental Matters   

We may incur material losses and costs as a result of
product liability and warranty claims that may be brought against us.   

We
face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of our
current and formerly manufactured products result, or are alleged to result, in
personal injury and/or property damage. If we manufacture a defective product,
we may experience material product liability losses in the future. In addition,
we may incur significant costs to defend product liability claims. We could
also incur damages and significant costs in correcting any defects, lose sales
and suffer damage to our reputation. Our product liability insurance coverage
may not be adequate for any liabilities we could incur and may not continue to
be available on terms acceptable to us.  

We
are also subject to product warranty claims in the ordinary course of our
business. If we produce poor quality products or receive defective materials,
we may incur unforeseen costs in excess of what we have reserved in our
financial statements. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our
business, operating cash flows and ability to make required payments on our
debt.  

We depend on the services of key management personnel,
the loss of whom would materially harm us.   

Our
ability to compete successfully and implement our business strategy depends on
the efforts of our senior management personnel, including those of John
Poindexter, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of
the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect
on our business. We do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on any of
our executives.  

We may be unable to realize our business strategy of
improving operating performance and generating savings.   

We
have either implemented or plan to implement strategic initiatives designed to
improve our operating performance. The failure to achieve the goals of these
initiatives would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may decide
to make significant capital and related expenditures in an effort to streamline
our operations, including combining some of our operations at existing facilities.
We may not be able to successfully implement or realize the expected benefits
of any of these initiatives. We also may not be able to sustain improvements
made to date. We may decide to alter or discontinue some aspects of our
strategy and may adopt alternative or additional strategies, which may not be
in the best interests of our note holders.  

13  

We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions
or successfully integrate acquisitions into our business.   

Our
business strategy includes growing through strategic acquisitions of other
businesses with complementary products, manufacturing capabilities or
geographic markets. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses successfully
into our existing businesses, or incur unforeseen expenses in consummating
future acquisitions, we could incur unanticipated expenses and losses.  

We
must successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations to take
advantage of projected benefits from those acquired businesses. The integration
of future acquisitions into our operations could result in operating
difficulties and divert management and financial resources that would otherwise
be available for the development and maintenance of our existing operations. Our
ability to make future acquisitions may be constrained by our ability to obtain
additional financing and by the provisions of the indenture governing our
outstanding 8.75% Notes and by the terms of our revolving credit facility.  

Acquisitions
may involve a number of special risks, including:  

unexpected losses of key employees or
customers of the acquired business; 

conforming the standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired
businesses with those of our existing operations; 

coordinating our product and process
development; 

hiring additional management and critical
personnel; and 

increasing the scope, geographic diversity
and complexity of our operations. 

Future
acquisitions could result in our incurrence of additional debt and contingent
liabilities, including environmental, tax, pension or other liabilities. These
liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability
to generate cash and ability to make required payments on our debt.  

If we are unable to meet future capital requirements,
our competitive position may be adversely affected.   

As
a manufacturer, we are required to expend significant amounts of capital for
engineering, development, tooling and other costs. Generally we seek to recover
these costs through pricing over time, but we may be unsuccessful due to
competitive pressures and other market constraints. We expect to fund capital
expenditures through operating cash flows, borrowings under our revolving
credit facility or other sources of borrowing such as capital leases. We may
not have adequate funds or borrowing availability to make all the necessary
capital expenditures. We may be required to expend more than we anticipated on
necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to make necessary capital
expenditures, our business and our competitive position will be materially and
adversely affected.  

As a
privately-held company, we are subject to less stringent corporate governance
requirements than a company with public equity. This provides less protection
to our investors.    

While
we are subject to certain requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we
will not be subject to many of its provisions, including rules requiring us to
have independent directors or an audit committee composed of independent
directors. Three of our four directors, John Poindexter, Stormy Hicks, our
President and Stephen Magee, the chairman of the Audit Committee of our board
of directors, are not independent. We will not be subject to the same corporate
governance standards as a company with public equity or a company listed on a
national exchange and our security holders will not have the protections
provided by having independent directors or audit committee members.  

14  

Item
1B.                 Unresolved Staff
Comments   

None   

Item 2.                    Properties   

We own or lease the following manufacturing, office and
sales facilities as of December 31, 2005:  

We believe that our facilities
are adequate for our current needs and are capable of being utilized at higher
capacities to supply increased demand, if necessary.  

*Acquired January 3, 2006  
**Acquired March 17, 2006  

15  

Item 3.            Legal Proceedings   

We are involved in various lawsuits,
which arise in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management,
the ultimate outcome of these lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect
on us.  

Item
4.            Submission of Matters to a
Vote of Security Holders    

No
matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the twelve months
ended December 31, 2005 covered by this report.   

PART II    

Item
5.                                              Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer  Purchases
of Equity Securities   

The registrant s common equity
is privately held and not publicly traded. 
As of March 23, 2006, John Poindexter owned all of the registrant s
issues and outstanding common equity. 
During the last three fiscal years, the Company paid no cash dividends.  

The indenture regarding the
8.75% Notes, dated as of March 15, 2004 and the Revolving Credit Facility, as
amended and dated as of March 15, 2004 with LaSalle Bank National Association,
restrict the Company s ability to pay dividends on its common equity.  

The Company has no securities
authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.  

16  

Item
6.                    Selected Financial
Data    

The following table sets forth
our selected consolidated historical financial data for each of the five years
in the period ended December 31, 2005. We derived the selected
consolidated financial data as of December 31, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and
2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005
from our consolidated financial statements. 
The following selected consolidated financial data as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, have
been derived from our consolidated audited financial statements included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  The
selected consolidated financial data as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 and
for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 have been derived from our
consolidated financial statements not included or incorporated by reference in
this Form 10-K. The historical results presented are not necessarily indicative
of future results and  you
should read this financial data in conjunction with the section in this Form
10-K entitled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  and our consolidated financial statements and related
notes. 

(a)               For the purpose of calculating the ratio of
earnings to fixed charges, earnings consist of net income (loss) plus income
taxes and fixed charges (excluding capitalized interest). Fixed charges consist
of interest expense, amortization of debt issuance costs and the estimated
portion of rental expenses deemed a reasonable approximation of the interest
factor. 

(b)              Earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges by $6.9 million
for 2002. 

17  

(c)                EBITDA  is net income from continuing
operations increased by the sum of interest expense, income taxes, depreciation
and amortization and other non-cash items for those operations defined as restricted
subsidiaries in the indenture pertaining to the 8.75% Notes.  EBITDA is not included herein as operating
data and should not be construed as an alternative to operating income
(determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States) as an indicator of the Company s operating performance.  The Company has included EBITDA because it is
relevant for determining compliance under the Indenture and because the Company
understands that it is one measure used by certain investors to analyze the
Company s operating cash flow and historical ability to service its
indebtedness.   The following are the
components of the Company s EBITDA: 

(d)               Consolidated Coverage Ratio  is the ratio of EBITDA to interest
expense of the Company and its subsidiaries that guarantee the 8.75%
Notes.  It is used in the Indenture to
limit the amount of indebtedness that the Company may incur.  All the Company s subsidiaries are restricted
under the terms of the indenture and guarantee the 8.75% Notes. 

Item
7.                                                            Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Overview   

We have four operating segments:  

Morgan,
which manufactures and sells truck bodies; 

Morgan
Olson, which manufactures and sells step van bodies; 

Truck
Accessories, which manufactures and sells pickup truck caps and tonneau covers
; and 

Specialty
Manufacturing, which manufactures specialty vehicles through its Specialty
Vehicle Group, primarily funeral coaches, limousines and specialized buses,
provides contract manufacturing services and manufactures expandable foam
products for packaging and other applications. 

Factors influencing results
of operations    .  Demand for our products is highly cyclical
and our results of operations are affected by general economic conditions and
conditions specific to the industries in which we and our customers operate. 

Morgan s and Morgan Olson s
sales depend on the replacement cycle for delivery trucks and step vans primarily
in the general freight, moving and storage, parcel delivery and distribution
industries. We estimate that customers typically replace delivery trucks every
six to seven years. However, the replacement cycle is directly impacted by
general economic conditions in the United States. In a weaker economy, our
customers will often defer purchases of new delivery trucks or retire old
delivery trucks without replacement. In the early stages of a stronger economy,
customers typically replace delivery trucks at a faster than normal rate,
making purchases that were deferred in prior  

18  

years. We expect general
economic conditions to cause significant variability in Morgan s and Morgan
Olson s future results of operations and we cannot predict the impact of that
variability on our operations.  

Some of Morgan s sales are also
seasonal. Approximately 24% of Morgan s unit sales are to companies that rent
trucks on a short-term basis to consumers. 
The substantial majority of these Consumer Rental sales are made during
the first half of each calendar year.  

Truck Accessories  sales are
directly related to sales of new pickup trucks. Pickup truck sales are cyclical
and depend on general economic conditions and factors that affect the
automotive industry, such as consumer preferences, fuel costs, consumer
spending levels, new model introductions and interest rates. General economic
conditions and the above factors have in the past caused variability in Truck
Accessories  results of operations. We expect these factors will cause
variability in the future, although we cannot predict the extent of such
variability.  

Specialty Manufacturing s sales
of funeral coaches and related limousines are influenced by new product
introductions by the major U.S. car manufacturers.  Delays in the introduction of a new model can
result in a delay in the ordering new funeral vehicles by the end user.  

The
following table shows our net sales, operating income and operating income as a
percentage of net sales for each segment for the years ended December 31, 2003,
2004 and 2005.  

The following is a discussion of the key components
of our results of operations:  

Source of revenues.      We
derive revenues from: 

Morgan s
sales of truck bodies, parts and services. 

Morgan
Olson s sales of step van truck bodies, parts and services. 

Truck
Accessories  sales of pickup truck caps and tonneaus; 

19  

Specialty
Manufacturing s sales of specialty vehicles, primarily funeral coaches,
contract manufacturing services, packaging and other products. 

Discounts, returns and
allowances.      Our gross sales are reduced by discounts we
provide to customers and returns and allowances in the ordinary course of our
business.  We provide discounts as deemed
necessary to generate sales volume and remain price competitive. Discounts
include payment term discounts and discretionary discounts from list price. 

Cost of sales.      Cost
of sales represents the costs directly associated with manufacturing our
products and generally varies with the volume of products produced. The
components of cost of sales are materials, labor and overhead. We have
experienced significant increases in the cost of materials, such as aluminum,
steel, fiberglass-reinforced plywood, lumber, fiberglass resin, plastic
beads and truck cap windows that have affected our operating profit
margins.  However, increased sales and
the prices we charge for our products have mitigated the impact on our
financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we enter into
supply contracts for some materials at a fixed price for up to one year and in
some cases pre-buy bulk quantities of materials to manage materials costs.
Overhead costs are allocated to production based on labor costs and include the
depreciation and amortization costs associated with the assets used in
manufacturing. 

Selling, general and
administrative expenses.      Selling, general and
administrative expenses are made up of the costs of selling our products and
administrative costs such as information technologies, accounting, finance,
human resource and engineering. Costs include personnel and related costs
including travel, equipment and facility rent expense and professional services
such as audit fees. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include
our costs at corporate headquarters to manage and provide support to our
operating subsidiaries. 

Other income and expense.     
Income and expenses that we incur during the year that are nonrecurring
in nature and not directly comparable to the prior year are included in other
income and expense or are separately identified such as debt issuance costs. 

Basis of financial
statements   

Various items in our financial statements have been
restated for all prior periods, as described below.  

On March 15, 2004, we acquired from John
Poindexter, the sole shareholder of the Company, the stock of Morgan Olson that
he had acquired effective July 15, 2003. The results of operations for all
periods presented have been restated to reflect the merger on a basis similar
to a pooling of interests so as to combine the financial statements of both
companies for the period they were under common control.  

During 2004, MIC Group, which is included in
Specialty Manufacturing, reclassified certain manufacturing overhead costs from
selling, general and administrative expense to cost of sales, consistent with
our other subsidiaries.  

In 2004, we sold the Midwest Truck Aftermarket
operations of Truck Accessories.  In
2003, we sold the GemTop operations of Truck Accessories. Accordingly, all of
these operations have been treated as discontinued in the consolidated
financial statements for all periods presented, as described below in  Discontinued
Operations .  Income we received, or
expenses we incurred, from previously disposed of operations are also reported
in  Discontinued Operations.   

Critical accounting policies
and estimates   

The discussion and analysis of
financial condition and the results of operations are based upon our
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  The preparation of these consolidated
financial statements requires the use of estimates that affect the reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. The estimates are evaluated continually,
including those related to warranties offered on products, self-insurance  

20  

reserves, bad debts, inventory
obsolescence, investments, intangible assets and goodwill, income taxes,
financing operations, workers  compensation insurance and contingent
liabilities. The estimates are based on historical experience and on various
other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances,
the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
assumptions or conditions.  

We believe the following are the most critical
accounting policies used in the preparation of our financial statements.  

Revenue Recognition.     
Revenue is recognized upon shipment of the product to customers, except
for Morgan and Morgan Olson where revenue is recognized when title transfers to
the customer upon final body assembly, quality inspection and customer
notification. We classify amounts billed to customers related to shipping and
handling as revenue. The costs associated with the shipping and handling
revenue are included in cost of sales. 

Warranties.      Reserves for costs associated with fulfilling warranty
obligations offered on Truck Accessories, Morgan, Morgan Olson and Specialty
Vehicles Group products are established based on historical experience and an
estimate of future claims. Increases in the incidence of product defects would
result in additional reserves being required in the future and would reduce
income in the period of such determination. 

Self-Insurance risks.      We
utilize a combination of insurance coverage and self-insurance programs for
property, casualty, workers  compensation and health care insurance. We record
an actuarially determined, fully developed self-insurance reserve to cover the
self-insured portion of these risks based on known facts and historical
industry trends. Changes in the assumptions used by the actuary could result in
a different self-insurance reserve. 

Income taxes.      We estimate our income taxes in each of the
jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our current
tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the
differing treatment of items for tax and financial reporting purposes. These
differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included
in the consolidated balance sheet. We then assess the likelihood that the
deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the
extent recovery is not likely, a valuation allowance is established thus
reducing the deferred tax asset. When an increase in this allowance within a
period is recorded, we include an expense in the tax provision in the
consolidated statements of operations. Management s judgment is required in
determining the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities
and any valuation allowance recorded against the net deferred tax assets. During
2005, we utilized net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
$7.2 million that were outstanding as of December 31, 2004.  We had a capital loss carryforward deferred
tax asset of approximately $1.4 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and
recorded a valuation allowance of an equal amount against the asset as it is
uncertain as to whether we will generate future capital gains necessary to
utilize the loss carryforward.  At
December 31, 2005, we had a state tax net operating loss carryforward deferred
tax asset of $3.4 million and recorded a valuation allowance of $2.4 million
against the portion of which it is uncertain as to whether it will be
realized.  We recognized a reduction in
the valuation allowance of $1.0 million, which reduced the tax provision by an
equal amount for the year.  While our
deferred tax assets, net of the valuation allowance, are considered realizable,
actual amounts could be reduced if future taxable income is not achieved. 

Inventory valuation.      Our inventories mainly consist of raw
materials, vehicles prior to conversion, supplies and work-in-progress. Because
our largest segments, Morgan, Morgan Olson and Truck Accessories primarily
produce products to their customers  orders, we maintain a relatively small
stock of finished goods inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of
cost (first-in, first-out method) or market. We record reserves against the
value of inventory based upon our determination that the inventory is not
usable in our products. These reserves are estimates, which could vary
significantly, either favorably or unfavorably, from actual requirements if
future economic conditions, customer inventory levels or competitive conditions
differ from our expectations. 

Accounts receivable.      We provide credit to our customers in the
ordinary course of business. We are not aware of any significant credit risks
related to our customer base and do not generally require collateral or other
security to 

21  

support customer receivables.  Specialty Vehicles sells to certain customers
on extended terms and retains title to the vehicle until payment is complete.
The carrying amount of our accounts receivable approximate the fair value of
the receivables because of their short-term nature with payment typically due
within 30 days after an invoice is sent. We establish an allowance for
doubtful accounts on a case by case basis when we believe that we are unlikely
to receive payment in full of amounts owed to us. We make a judgment in these
cases based on available facts and circumstances and we may record a reserve
against a customer s account receivable. We re-evaluate the reserves and adjust
them as we obtain more information regarding the account. The collectibility of
trade receivables could be significantly reduced if there is a greater than
expected rate of defaults or if one or more significant customers experience
financial difficulties or are otherwise unable to make required payments.  

Goodwill and long-lived
assets impairment.      We perform a test of our goodwill for
potential impairment annually as of October 1 as prescribed by Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,    Goodwill
and Other Intangibles.    The fair values of our reporting units are
based on multiples of earnings derived from information and analysis of recent
acquisitions in the market place for companies with similar operations. Changes
in the assumptions used in the fair value calculation could result in an
estimated reporting unit fair value that is below the carrying value, which may
give rise to an impairment of our goodwill. 
In addition to the annual review, we also test for impairment of our
long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets should events or
circumstances indicate a potential reduction in the fair value of those assets
below their carrying value. 

Comparison of 2005 to 2004   

Sales.             Our    consolidated net sales increased $83.2
million, or 14.2%, to $668.1 million for 2005 compared to
$584.9 million for 2004. 

Morgan s
net sales increased $42.8 million, or 13.6%, to $358.2 million for 2005
compared to $315.5 million for 2004. 
Excluding Commercial Babcock, which was acquired in December 2004, net
sales increased $22.6 million or 7.2%. 
Truck body sales increased $24.7 million or 8.4%.  The increase was due primarily to a 16.0%
increase in the average unit price of a truck body partly offset by a 6.6%
decline in the number of units shipped. 
Sales of truck bodies to the commercial divisions of leasing companies,
companies with fleets of delivery vehicles, truck dealers and distributors or  Commercial 
sales, which represented 86% of Morgan s net sales this year, increased $36.4
million or 14.4% to $289.1 million. 
Shipments of Commercial units increased approximately 2% during 2005;
however, compared to a 44% increase last year, this increase could indicate an
unfavorable change in the replacement cycle of our major fleet company
customers.  Consumer Rental sales
decreased $11.7 million or 27.8% on a 35% decline in unit shipments.  Commercial Babcock s net sales were $20.9
million during 2005.  Sales of parts and
services decreased $4.9 million or 31.3% due primarily to the transfer of the
parts business to Morgan Olson.  Discounts
decreased slightly to $10.6 million in 2005 or 2.9% of net sales compared to
$10.8 million or 3.3% of net sales in 2004. 

Morgan
Olson s net sales decreased $10.2 million or 14.4% to $60.8 million for
2005.  Step van body sales decreased
$14.7 million or 25.1% on a 33.6% decline in unit shipments.  The reduction in unit shipments was due
primarily to a 42% reduction in sales to UPS from 1,200 units this year
compared to approximately 1,800 units in 2004 with a 56% decline in the fourth
quarter of 2005.  This trend has not
continued into 2006 as orders from UPS have increased to 3,200 units for
delivery in 2006.  Parts and service
sales increased $4.5 million to $17.1 million compared to $12.6 million in
2004; the increase was due to the transfer of the Morgan parts business to
Morgan Olson. 

Truck
Accessories  net sales increased $18.3 million, or 13.5% to $153.7 million for
2005 compared to $135.4 million for 2004. 
The increase was due primarily to the acquisition of Pace Edwards in
November of 2004, which contributed $16.1 million to 2005 net sales compared to
$2.7 million in 2004.  Sales of caps and
tonneaus, excluding Pace Edwards, increased by 3.7% or $4.9 million on a 3.3%
decrease in unit shipments.  Pickup truck
sales in the United States and Canada decreased 1% during 2005 compared to a 3%
increase in 2004 with sales increasing 10% during the first, second and third
quarters of 2005 and declining 9% in the fourth quarter. 

22  

Specialty
Manufacturing s net sales (excluding Federal Coach) increased by
$8.7 million, or 13.5%, to $73.0 million for 2005 compared to
$64.3 million for 2004.  Sales to
customers in the energy services business increased 28.9% to $28.6 million
compared to $22.2 million during 2004 due to an increase in demand in the
oil and gas industry.  Federal Coach s
net sales were $22.6 million for the six month period subsequent to its
acquisition in 2005. 

Backlog     .     Consolidated backlog was $143.6 million
as of December 31, 2005 compared to $127.2 million as of December 31, 2004.  

Morgan s backlog at December 31, 2005 was $94.7 million compared to
$101.9 million at December 31, 2004. The decrease from a year earlier was
due primarily to the timing of the receipt of fleet orders from its two largest
customers. 

Morgan Olson s backlog was $9.3 million at
December 31, 2005 compared to $8.1 million at December 31, 2004. 

Truck Accessories  backlog of approximately two weeks of production was
$3.9 million at December 31, 2005 compared to $4.6 million as of
December 31, 2004. 

Specialty Manufacturing s backlog at December 31, 2005 increased $23.1
million to $35.7 million compared to $12.6 million at December 31,
2004.  Excluding Federal Coach s backlog
of $6.6 million at December 31, 2005, the backlog of machining services
increased $16.5 million over last year. 

Cost
of sales and gross profit.          Our     consolidated cost of sales increased by $79.6
million or 15.5%, to $593.1 million for 2005 compared to $513.5 million
for 2004. Consolidated gross profit increased by $3.5 million, or 5.0%, to
$75.0 million (11.2% of net sales) for 2005 compared to $71.5 million
(12.2% of net sales) for 2004. 

Morgan s
gross profit increased by $4.5 million, or 12.9% to $39.6 million (11.1%
of its net sales) for 2005 compared to $35.1 million (11.1% of its net sales)
for 2004.  Excluding Commercial Babcock,
Morgan s gross profit increased $1.6 million or 4.7% on higher sales this year. 

Morgan
Olson s gross profit declined by $4.8 million, or 68.2%, to
$2.2 million (3.7% of its net sales) for 2005 compared to
$7.1 million (9.9% of its net sales) for 2004.  The decline in gross profit and gross profit
margins was due to lower labor productivity and higher overhead expenses
relative to sales. 

Truck
Accessories  gross profit increased by $1.4 million, or 7.0%, to
$21.6 million (14.0% of its net sales) for 2005 compared to
$20.2 million (14.9% of its net sales) for 2004. Gross profit increased
$4.1 million as a result of the incremental gross profit of Pace Edwards, which
was part of Truck Accessories for the twelve months of 2005 and only two months
of 2004, partially offset by a $2.7 million decrease in gross profits at the
remaining Truck Accessories  operations due primarily to increased raw material
costs and delivery costs.  Delivery costs
increased approximately $2.8 million in 2005 mainly due to increased fuel
prices. 

Specialty
Manufacturing s gross profit increased $2.4 million, or 26.4%, to $11.6 million
(12.1% of its net sales) for 2005 compared to $9.2 million (14.2% of its
net sales) for 2004.  The acquisition of
Federal Coach in June of this year added $1.9 million to gross profits for the
year and the remaining increase was due to higher sales of machining services. 

Selling, general and
administrative expenses.      Our consolidated selling, general and
administrative expenses increased $9.4 million, or 23.2%, to
$50.0 million (7.5% of net sales) for 2005 compared to $40.6 million (7.0%
of net sales) for 2004. 

23  

Morgan s
selling, general and administrative expenses increased $3.4 million, or
22.2%, to $18.9 million (5.3% of its net sales) for 2005 compared to
$15.4 million (4.9% of its net sales) for 2004.  $2.4 million of the increase was due to the
addition of Commercial Babcock late in 2004 and to increased commissions and
promotional expenses related to efforts to increase sales. 

Morgan
Olson s selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by
$0.7 million, or 14.3%, to $4.2 million (6.9% of its net sales) for
2005 compared to $4.9 million (6.9% of its net sales) for 2004.  A reduction in general and administrative
expenses of $1.0 million was partly offset by a $0.3 million or 16.2% increase
in selling expense primarily due to an increase in sales personnel from 17 to
21. 

Truck
Accessories  selling, general and administrative expenses increased by
$2.9 million, or 30.2%, to $12.6 million (8.2% of its net sales) for 2005
from $9.7 million (7.1% of its net sales) for 2004. Costs increased primarily
due to the incremental expenses of $2.6 million from the acquisition of Pace
Edwards. 

Specialty
Manufacturing s selling, general and administrative expenses increased by
$2.4 million, or 36.3%, to $9.2 million (9.6% of its net sales) for
2005 from $6.8 million (10.5% of its net sales) for 2004. The acquisition
of Federal Coach added $1.7 million of expenses this year. 

Corporate
selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $1.4 million, or
38.2%, to $5.1 million (0.8% of consolidated net sales) for 2005 from
$3.7 million (0.6% of consolidated net sales) for 2004, primarily due to
additional personnel and related costs of approximately $0.8 million. 

Loss on extinguishment of debt     .   
During 2004, we wrote-off deferred loan costs of $2.4 million as a
result of the refinancing of our then outstanding debt. 

Closed and excess facility costs.     In the third quarter of 2005, we decided to consolidate the Truck
Accessories plants in Canada which resulted in a write-down in the carrying
value of our Drinkwater facility.  The
non cash write-down of $377,000 was recorded as closed and excess facility
costs for 2005. 

Operating income.      Due to the effect of the factors summarized
above, consolidated operating income decreased by $4.4 million, or 15.2%
to $24.5 million (3.7% of net sales) for 2005 from $28.9 million
(4.9% of net sales) for 2004. 

Morgan s
operating income increased by $1.2 million, or 5.9%, to $20.8 million
(5.8% of its net sales) for 2005 compared to $19.6 million (6.2% of its
net sales) for 2004.  Commercial Babcock s
operating income was $0.7 million (3.4% of its net sales) for 2005. 

Morgan
Olson s operating income decreased by $3.8 million to a $1.9 million
operating loss for 2005 compared to operating income of $1.9 million for 2004. 

Truck
Accessories  operating income decreased by $2.2 million, or 20.9%, to
$8.3 million (5.4% of its net sales) for 2005 compared to $10.5 million
(7.8% of its net sales) for 2004.  Pace
Edwards  operating income was $1.4 million for the 2005 period. 

Specialty
Manufacturing s operating income decreased by $0.3 million, or 10.8%, to
$2.5 million (2.6% of its net sales) for 2005, compared to
$2.8 million (4.3% of its net sales) for 2004. 

Corporate
expenses decreased $0.8 million to $5.1 million for 2005, compared to $5.9
million for 2004.  The loss on
extinguishment of debt of $2.4 million in 2004 was included in corporate
expenses for that period. 

24  

Interest expense.           I    nterest expense increased $4.0 million, or
27.5% to $18.5 million (2.8% of net sales) for 2005 compared to
$14.5 million (2.5% of net sales) for 2004.  The increase was due to a $56.1 million
increase in average debt outstanding during 2005, primarily as a result of the
additional 8.75% Note offering totaling $45 million in January of 2005.  We earned $1.6 million of interest on our
cash and short term investments during 2005. 

Income
taxes.    The 2005 income tax rate approximated the statutory
rate. A reduction in the valuation allowance of $1.0 million reduced the rate
but was offset by recurring state income tax provisions and various other
items. In 2004, the income tax
provision was approximately 28% of pre-tax income. The rate was reduced by a
$0.5 million reduction in the valuation allowance and various other items. 

Comparison of 2004 to 2003   

Sales.             Our    consolidated net sales increased
$149.4 million, or 34.3%, to $584.9 million for 2004 compared to
$435.5 million for 2003. 

Morgan s
net sales increased $92.3 million, or 41.4%, to $315.5 million for
2004 compared to $223.2 million for 2003. The increase resulted from a
32.7% increase in the number of units shipped to approximately 38,000 units.
Net sales increased by a greater percentage than number of units shipped
because of a greater increase in higher priced commercial unit shipments and
price increases on all products.  The
average price increase across all products was 4.5% for 2004 compared to
2003.  Shipment of units to Consumer
Rental companies that are historically large production runs completed in the
first and second quarters of the year, and generally command a lower unit
price, increased approximately 31% in 2004 compared to 2003 including a 136%
increase in the fourth quarter of 2004 as 2005 production was accelerated into
2004. Shipments of commercial units that represented about 80% of Morgan s
total sales in 2004, increased by 44% to $252.7 million in 2004 from
$175.4 million in 2003 as Morgan s major fleet customers, distributors and
dealers increased new truck body purchases from Morgan. This increase in
commercial sales reflected an improvement in general economic conditions. The
increase in purchases by the major fleet companies reflected a favorable change
in the replacement cycle of their fleets. Discounts remained flat at
$10.8 million and decreased to 3.3% of gross sales compared to 4.6% during
2003.  The acquisition of Commercial
Babcock in December of 2004 added $0.7 million of sales in Canada for 2004. 

Morgan
Olson s net sales for 2004 were $71.0 million compared to $34.6 million
for 2003.  This significant increase was
largely due to sales for the six month period ended June 30, 2004 of $25.8
million for which we do not have sales for the comparable period in 2003 as we
acquired Morgan Olson out of bankruptcy in July 2003.  Sales for the six months ended December 31,
2004 increased $10.6 million or 30.8% compared to the same period of 2003 due
to sales to UPS of $23.0 million offset by a decrease in sales to the United
States Postal Service. 

Truck
Accessories  net sales increased $9.9 million, or 8.1%, during 2004 compared to
2003, excluding Pace Edwards that was acquired in November 2004.  Net sales for 2004 were $135.4 million,
compared to $122.8 million for 2003, and included $2.7 million of net sales by
Pace Edwards.  The increase was due to a
3.2% increase in unit shipments in 2004 compared to 2003, a 4.9% increase in
net sales price and changes in the mix of products sold.  Sales of pickup trucks in the United States
and Canada, a leading indicator of Truck Accessories  business, rose by
approximately 3.3% over the same period. 

Specialty
Manufacturing s net sales increased by $9.4 million, or 17.1%, to
$64.3 million for 2004 compared to $54.9 million for 2003. Sales to
customers in the energy services business represented 28% of Specialty
Manufacturing s sales during 2004, and sales to these customers increased 15%
to $22.2 million compared to $19.3 million during 2003. The increase
resulted from increased oil and gas exploration activity during 2004. Other
sales increased by 18.3% to $42.2 million during 2004 compared to
$35.7 million during 2003.  Sales of
plastic based packaging products increased $4.2 million or 19.3% on increased
demand from customers in the consumer electronics industry. 

25  

Backlog     .     Consolidated backlog was $127.2 million
as of December 31, 2004 compared to $100.2 million as of December 31, 2003.  

Morgan s backlog at December 31, 2004 was $101.9 million compared
to $72.0 million at December 31, 2003. The increase from a year earlier
was due primarily to additional commercial unit orders from Morgan s major
fleet customers during 2004. 

Morgan Olson s backlog was $8.1 million at
December 31, 2004 compared to $13.7 million at December 31, 2003. The
backlog at the end of 2003 included orders for step vans for the United States
Postal Service supplied under a contract that was completed in the first
quarter of 2004. 

Truck Accessories  backlog of approximately two weeks of production was
$4.6 million at December 31, 2004 compared to $4.3 million as of
December 31, 2003. 

Specialty Manufacturing s backlog at December 31, 2004 was
$12.6 million compared to $10.2 million at December 31, 2003. 

Cost of sales and gross
profit.          Our     consolidated cost of sales increased by
$139.7 million, or 37.4%, to $513.5 million for 2004 compared to
$373.8 million for 2003. Consolidated gross profit increased by
$9.7 million, or 15.7%, to $71.4 million (12.2% of net sales) for
2004 compared to $61.7 million (14.2% of net sales) for 2003. 

Morgan s
gross profit increased by $4.4 million, or 14.5%, to $35.1 million
(11.1% of its net sales) for 2004 compared to $30.6 million (13.7% of its
net sales) for 2003.  The decrease in the
gross margin as a percentage of net sales was due to an increase in material
costs partially offset by the improved absorption of overhead and improved
labor efficiency on higher sales. 
Material cost increases reflect material used to manufacture product
that had been booked into backlog prior to product price increases taking
effect. During 2004, Morgan implemented a 6% price increase on truck body
products during the second quarter, a 3.5% cost pass-through on certain options
during the third quarter and a 3.8% increase on truck bodies during the fourth
quarter. However, the industry practice of honoring price quotes to customers
for 30 days, an unusually large increase in orders late in 2003 and early
2004, and long production lead times due to chassis delivery schedules,
significantly reduced the benefit of the price increases. Morgan estimated that
the unrecovered increases in raw material costs reduced operating income by
approximately $8.0 million or by approximately $0.8 million in the first
quarter, $4.2 million in the second quarter and $3.0 million in the
third quarter. An additional 5% increase on truck bodies was implemented in
February 2005. 

Morgan
Olson s gross profit increased by $2.3 million, or 47.0%, to $7.1 million
(9.9% of its net sales) for 2004 compared to $4.8 million (13.9% of its
net sales) for the period from July 15, 2003, the date of its acquisition,
to December 31, 2003.  The decline
in the gross profit margin was due primarily to a four percentage point
increase in labor costs relative to sales caused by high labor turnover, hiring
and training costs, and increased wage rates all associated with a ramp-up in
production to meet higher sales demand. 

Truck
Accessories  gross profit increased by $1.5 million, or 8.0%, to
$20.2 million (14.9% of its net sales) for 2004 compared to
$18.7 million (15.2% of its net sales) for 2003. 

Specialty
Manufacturing s gross profit increased $1.5 million, or 20.0%, to $9.2
million (14.2% of its net sales) for 2004 compared to $7.6 million (13.9%
of its net sales) for 2003.  Increased
material costs were more than offset by improved absorption of overhead on
higher sales. 

Selling, general and
administrative expenses.      Our consolidated selling, general and administrative
expenses increased $3.7 million, or 10.0%, to $40.6 million (6.9% of
net sales) for 2004 compared to $36.9 million (8.5% of net sales) for
2003. 

26  

Morgan s
selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.0 million, or
6.9%, to $15.5 million (4.9% of its net sales) for 2004 compared to
$14.5 million (6.5% of its net sales) for 2003. The increase was due
primarily to increased managerial personnel and related costs.  Control of administrative costs in general
reduced the level of expense relative to sales. 

Morgan
Olson s selling, general and administrative expenses increased by
$0.9 million, or 23.0%, to $4.9 million (7.0% of its net sales) for
2004 compared to $4.0 million (11.6% of its net sales) for the period from
July 15, 2003, the date of its acquisition, to December 31,
2003.  Expenses for 2003 included a $0.8
million management fee paid to Southwestern Holdings, Inc. for services provided
by John Poindexter. 

Truck
Accessories  selling, general and administrative expenses increased by
$0.5 million, or 4.9%, to $9.7 million (7.1% of its net sales) for
2004 from $9.2 million (7.5% of its net sales) for 2003. The acquisition
of Pace Edwards in November 2004 added $0.6 million of expenses to 2004. 

Specialty
Manufacturing s selling, general and administrative expenses increased by
$0.8 million, or 12.7%, to $6.8 million (10.5% of its net sales) for
2004 from $6.0 million (10.9% of its net sales) for 2003. 

Corporate
selling, general and administrative expenses during the 2004 period increased
$0.6 million or 17.9% to $3.7 million from $3.1 million for 2003
primarily as a result of additional personnel and their associated costs of
$0.3 and additional audit fees of approximately $0.2 million. 

Loss on
extinguishment of debt    . Effective with our offering on March 15,
2004 of $125.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 8.75% Notes, we repaid
our then outstanding revolving loan facilities and, effective April 15,
2004, we repaid the 12.5% senior secured notes that were due 2007. As a result,
the remaining debt issuance costs of $2.4 million associated with those
borrowings were written off to expense. Effective June 10, 2003, we completed
an exchange offer of our then outstanding 12.5% senior notes due 2004 for an
equal amount of 12.5% senior secured notes due 2007 and expensed the
refinancing costs associated with the offer of $0.8 million for 2003.   Effective
September 29, 2003, we recorded a $0.4 million gain on the purchase and cancellation
of $9.1 million principal amount of outstanding 12.5% senior secured notes due
2007. 

Other income     .    Our
other income during the period ended December 31, 2004 of $0.4 million was
primarily a death benefit from a life insurance policy on the life of a former
executive of Specialty Manufacturing. 

Operating income.      Due to the effect of the factors summarized
above, consolidated operating income increased by $4.5 million, or 18.4%,
to $28.9 million (4.9% of net sales) for 2004 from $24.4 million (5.6%
of net sales) for 2003. 

Morgan s
operating income increased by $3.6 million, or 22.5%, to
$19.6 million (6.2% of its net sales) for 2004 compared to
$16.0 million (7.2% of its net sales) for 2003.  The decline in operating income as a
percentage of sales was due to increased raw material costs. 

Morgan
Olson s operating income increased by $1.1 million, or 137.5%, to
$1.9 million (2.7% of its net sales) for 2004 compared to
$0.8 million (2.3% of its net sales) for the period from July 15,
2003, the date of its acquisition, to December 31, 2003.  However, excluding the management fee of $0.8
million paid to Southwestern Holdings, Inc. in 2003, operating income increased
$0.3 million or 19%. 

Truck
Accessories  operating income increased by $1.1 million, or 11.7%, to
$10.5 million (7.8% of its net sales) for 2004 compared to
$9.4 million (7.7% of its net sales) for 2003. 

27  

Specialty
Manufacturing s operating income increased by $1.0 million, or 55.6%, to
$2.8 million (4.3% of its net sales) for 2004, compared to
$1.8 million (3.3% of its net sales) for 2003, on increased gross profits
from both its machining services and plastics based packing material
operations. 

Corporate
expenses increased $2.3 million to $5.9 million for 2004, compared to $3.6
million for 2003.  The increase was due
primarily to the loss on extinguishment of debt of $2.4 million. 

Interest expense.      Consolidated interest expense increased $2.1
million, or 16.9% to $14.5 million (2.5% of net sales) for 2004 compared to
$12.4 million (2.9% of net sales) for 2003.  The increase was primarily as a result of a
$44.5 million increase in average total debt during 2004 compared to 2003 and approximately
$0.8 million of additional interest on the 2007 senior secured notes that we
retired on April 15, 2004, thirty days after the issuance of our $125.0 million
8.75% Notes, offset by a 2.7% decrease in the effective interest rate on our
debt. 

Discontinued Operations.     Our loss from discontinued operations of $0.5 million, net of an income
tax benefit, for 2004, consisted primarily of the operating losses of Midwest
Truck Aftermarket, a division of Truck Accessories, of $0.2 million and
goodwill of $0.3 million, which was written off to expense. 

Tax provision.      Our income tax provision for 2004 and 2003
differ from amounts computed based on the federal statutory rate due to state
and foreign taxes in jurisdictions where our net operating loss carry forwards
that were otherwise available were not available to reduce current period
income.  During 2004, the impact of the
reversal of the valuation allowance reduced the provision for income taxes by
$0.5 million.  The 2004 provision was
also reduced by various other items.  During
2003, we reduced the amount of the valuation allowance by $0.8 million and
reduced other tax reserves by $0.9 million for prior year income tax
provision to return differences, which reduced the provision for income taxes
by $1.7 million. 

Discontinued operations   

Truck Accessories-Midwest
Truck Aftermarket or MTA.      MTA was a wholesale distribution
operation that Truck Accessories acquired in 1997 and included it in its
distribution division. Truck Accessories disposed of almost all of its
distribution businesses during 1999 and 1998 as part of a strategic decision to
concentrate on manufacturing however, MTA and three retail locations were
retained. A buyer for MTA was identified during 2004 and we sold the assets
effective May 28, 2004. We realized cash proceeds of approximately
$1.3 million and wrote off goodwill of $0.3 million, less an income
tax benefit of $0.1 million, as a loss on sale of discontinued operations. For
2004 and 2003 MTA had sales of $4.1 million and $10.0 million,
respectively, and a loss before income tax benefits of $0.3 million and $0.1
million, respectively. 

Truck Accessories-GemTop
Operations.      During the fourth quarter of 2002, we
committed to a plan to sell principally all of the assets, less certain of the
liabilities of GemTop, a division of Truck Accessories. The sale was completed
effective February 28, 2003. We realized net cash proceeds of
approximately $0.8 million from the sale. 
During 2004 and 2003, net sales of the GemTop division were $0, and
$0.9 million, respectively, and the loss before income tax benefit was
$0.2 million for both years.  The loss
during 2004 was due to the cost of funding a defined benefit pension plan,
sponsorship of which was assumed by Truck Accessories.  The plan has been frozen and there are
approximately 30 participants.  We are
evaluating various courses of action including canceling the plan and
purchasing annuities for the participants. 

Other discontinued
operations.      During 2003, we received a settlement from a
class action suit of approximately $0.3 million and proceeds from a
surrendered life insurance policy of approximately $0.1 million that were
related to operations sold in 1999. Income before income taxes of $0.4 million
from these transactions was included in loss from discontinued operations for 2003. 

28  

Liquidity and capital
resources   

Historically we have funded our
operations with cash available from the proceeds of our senior notes, cash
generated from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility,
as needed.  Working capital at December
31, 2005 was $114.9 million compared to $75.8 million at
December 31, 2004.  Our cash, cash
equivalents and short term investments increased $31.7 million this year
compared to last year due primarily to proceeds from the $45.0 million 8.75%
Note offering in the first quarter of 2005 and cash flows from operations of
$14.6 million partially offset by the cash paid for Federal Coach of $12.3
million and capital expenditures of $15.5 million.  Excluding cash and short term investments,
working capital increased $7.4 million primarily as a result of working capital
acquired with the acquisition of Federal Coach of $6.1 million and an
investment in working capital over the year of $3.2 million.  Average accounts receivable days sales
outstanding at December 31, 2005 were approximately 27 compared to 32 at
December 31, 2004, and inventory turns during the year were approximately 10.4
compared to 11.0 during 2004.  Inventory
turns declined due to the addition of Federal Coach this year.  Federal Coach s inventory as of December 31,
2005 included approximately $2.5 million of vehicle chassis that remain in
inventory for extended periods of time due to a four to six week production
cycle.  

Operating cash flows.       Operating activities
during 2005 generated cash of $14.6 million compared to $11.8 million
during 2004 and $13.2 million during 2003. The increase in net cash generated
by operating activities was due primarily to a smaller investment in working
capital this year.  

The decrease in cash from
operating activities during 2004 compared to 2003 was due to an increase in the
investment in working capital of approximately $7.3 million substantially
offset by higher net income, non cash financing charges and an increase in
deferred tax benefits during 2004.  

Investing cash flows.       Net cash used in
investing activities increased $1.8 million to $38.0 million for 2005 compared
to $36.2 million for 2004.  The increase
was due primarily to a $10.3 million increase in short-term investments and an
increase in capital expenditures of $6.1 million offset by a decrease in cash
spent for acquisitions and insurance collateral deposits.  

We acquired Federal Coach
during the second quarter of 2005 using cash proceeds of approximately $12.3
million from our 8.75% Note offerings. 
Capital expenditures for 2005 were $15.5 million that included $6.1
million of new machine tools and presses for Specialty Manufacturing, $2.4
million of new product molds at Truck Accessories and a $1.5 million investment
in information technology assets.   We
acquired approximately $1.0 million of equipment under capital lease that is
not included in capital expenditures.  

As of December 31, 2005, we had
no significant open commitments for capital expenditures.  

Net cash used in investing
activities increased to $36.2 million during 2004 compared to $16.4 million
during 2003.  

We acquired two new businesses
during the fourth quarter of 2004 using cash from the proceeds of our 8.75%
Note offering of approximately $17.9 million. 
Capital expenditures for 2004 were $9.4 million, which included Morgan s
purchase of its manufacturing facility in Georgia for $2.2 million and new
production equipment of $2.0 million. Specialty Manufacturing acquired production
equipment of $1.2 million and Truck Accessories invested in $2.2 million of new
production molds.  We acquired
approximately $2.2 million of production equipment for Specialty Manufacturing
under capital leases that are not included in capital expenditures.  Our capital expenditures during 2003 were
primarily for the replacement of equipment and product molds of $1.7 million
for Truck Accessories.  

Cash generated from investing
activities during 2004 and 2003 by discontinued operations was made up of primarily
the proceeds from the sale of MTA during 2004 and Gem Top during 2003.  

During the fourth quarter of
2004, we substituted a cash collateral deposit for stand-by letters of credit
that had been used to secure our liabilities under our casualty insurance
programs.  We deposited $5.5 million of
cash into an account restricted by the terms of a trust agreement in favor of
our insurance carrier.  The insurance
carrier has the  

29  

right to demand payment from
the trust in the event that we are unable to pay our liabilities for previously
incurred insurance claims.  

We acquired Morgan Olson
effective July 15, 2003 for cash of approximately $13.9 million. On
May 5, 2003, Morgan acquired certain assets, primarily inventory, of a
truck body manufacturer located in Riverside, California. Morgan paid
approximately $0.4 million in cash for the assets and assumed certain
liabilities of approximately $0.2 million. Morgan also sold its Monterrey,
Mexico facility during 2003 and realized proceeds of $0.9 million that are
included in proceeds from the disposition of business property, plant and
equipment.  

Financing cash flows.      We generated $45.0 million of cash from
financing activities for 2005 compared with $43.8 million and $3.6 million
for 2004 and 2003, respectively.  During
January 2005, we issued $45.0 million in aggregate principal amount of  8.75% Notes  due 2014 (see below) at a 5%
premium and the net proceeds of approximately $46.4 million increased cash and
short term investments.  During 2004 we
issued $155.0 million of  8.75% Notes  due
2014 and used the net proceeds to repay term and revolving debt of
$112.9 million and pay accrued interest on the retired debt of
$3.9 million. 

During 2003, we borrowed approximately
$10.0 million of long-term debt secured against Morgan Olson s assets to
finance the acquisition of Morgan Olson. In addition, we borrowed
$4.1 million on our revolving credit facilities to fund operations. During
2003, we repaid $10.3 million of long-term debt and capital lease
obligations from available cash. In addition, during 2003, we completed the
exchange of $85.0 million, 12.5% Senior Notes for the same principal amount of
12.5% senior secured notes and paid costs of $2.9 million that included an
exchange offer consent fee of $2.6 million. 
As a result of the contribution of Morgan Olson to us during 2003 our
capital in excess of par account increased by $3 million.  

Long-term debt.          At
December 31, 2005 our long-term debt was $205.4 million and was comprised of
$202.0 million of our      8.75% Notes     , which
included the unamortized premium on sale of $2.0 million and $3.4 million of
capital lease obligations.  On January
27, 2005, we completed an offer to sell $45.0 million of our      8.75% Notes      at a
premium of 5% over par on the same terms as the original issue.  Net proceeds of approximately $46.4 million
increased cash and short-term investments. 
    On
March 15, 2004, we issued $125.0 million in aggregate principal
amount of  8.75% Notes , the proceeds
of which we used to repay existing debt, including (i) $79.8 million
of our 12.50% senior secured notes due 2007, which amount included accrued
interest of $3.9 million, (ii) borrowings under our then revolving
loan agreement of approximately $22.0 million and (iii) Morgan Olson
debt of approximately $14.3 million. Concurrently with issuing
$125.0 million in aggregate principal amount of  8.75% Notes , we entered into a new revolving credit facility that
provides for available borrowings of up to $30.0 million in revolving
loans. 

Effective May 15, 2004 we completed an
additional sale of $30.0 million in aggregate principal amount of  8.75% Notes  with net proceeds of
approximately $30.0 million going to cash. Other financing activities
during 2004 included $4.9 million of costs associated with our  8.75% Notes  and the negotiation of our new
revolving credit facility.  

During June 2003, we successfully completed the
exchange of $85.0 million of our then outstanding 12.50% senior notes due
2004 for the same principal amount of 12.50% senior secured notes due 2007,
which resulted in an extension of the maturity of the principal portion of our
long-term debt by three years at that time. The consent fee of approximately
$2.6 million paid in cash at the time of closing of the exchange offer to
the holders was treated as deferred loan costs to be amortized over the
remaining term of the exchange notes. 
During September 2003, we made an offer to purchase up to
$12.5 million of our 12.50% senior secured notes due 2007 at a price
between $870 and $920 per $1,000 principal amount and we purchased and
cancelled $9.1 million aggregate principal amount of the notes at $920 per
$1,000 principal amount using borrowings under our revolving loan agreement.  

At December 31, 2005, the Consolidated Coverage
Ratio, as defined in the indenture relating to our 8.75% Notes, was 2.1 to 1.0.
As a result, we are able to incur additional borrowings including borrowings
for capital expenditures. Our revolving loan agreement and indenture restrict our
ability to incur debt, pay dividends and  

30  

undertake certain corporate activities. We are in
compliance with the terms of the revolving loan agreement and indenture.  

The revolving credit facility
provides for available borrowings of up to $30.0 million in revolving
loans. We have the option, subject to certain conditions, to increase the
amount we are permitted to borrow under the facility to $50.0 million. As
of December 31, 2005, we believe we have satisfied those conditions. Available
borrowings are subject to a borrowing base of eligible accounts receivable,
inventory, machinery and equipment and real estate. Borrowings under our
revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets and
the assets of our existing subsidiaries. Our revolving credit facility also
includes a subfacility for up to $15.0 million of letters of credit. As of
December 31, 2005, we had $2.3 million of letters of credit outstanding
and our borrowing base would have supported debt borrowings of the entire
$30.0 million under our revolving credit facility.  

In addition, the revolving
credit facility includes covenants that place various restrictions on us,
including limitation, on our ability to:  

incur
additional debt; 

create
or become subject to liens or guarantees; 

make
investments or loans; 

pay
dividends or make distributions; 

prepay
the  8.75% Notes  or other debt; 

merge
with other entities or make acquisitions or dissolve; 

sell
assets; 

change
fiscal year or amend organizational documents or terms of any subordinated
debt; 

enter
into leases; and 

enter
into transactions with affiliates. 

We believe that we will have
adequate resources to meet our working capital and capital expenditure
requirements consistent with past trends and practices for at least the next
12 months. Cash generated from operations is a principal source of
liquidity for us. Additionally, we believe that our cash and borrowing
availability under the revolving credit facility will satisfy our cash
requirements for the coming year, given our anticipated capital expenditures,
working capital requirements and known obligations. Our ability to make
payments on our debt, including the 8.75% Notes, and to fund planned capital
expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is
subject to general economic conditions, other factors influencing the
industries in which we operate and circumstances that are beyond our control.  We cannot assure you that we will generate
sufficient cash flows, and, if we do not generate sufficient cash flows we may
have to engage in other activities such as the sale of assets to meet our cash
requirements. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt or take other actions
to generate the necessary cash to pay our debt on commercially reasonable terms
or at all. Furthermore, one of our strategies is to pursue acquisitions. Any
future acquisition or similar transaction will require additional capital,
which may not be available to us.  

31  

Commitments and capital
expenditures   

We entered into a letter of
intent to buy 100% of the stock of Eagle Coach on October 6, 2005 and completed
the acquisition on January 3, 2006.  Eagle
Coach is located in Amelia, Ohio and manufactures funeral coaches.  It is operated with Federal Coach as part of
the Specialty Vehicles Group.  We paid
approximately $7.5 million for Eagle Coach using funds from the proceeds of our
8.75% Note offerings.   Eagle Coach had sales of approximately $15.0
million and pro forma operating income of approximately $0.5 million for 2005. 

We entered into a letter of
intent to buy 100% of the stock of State Wide Aluminum, Inc., ( State Wide ) on
November 8, 2005 and Truck Accessories completed the acquisition on March 17,
2006.  State Wide is located in Elkhart,
Indiana and is one of Truck Accessories  two principal suppliers of windows and
doors, used in the manufacture of pick-up truck caps.  State Wide is operated as a subsidiary of
Truck Accessories.  We paid approximately
$6.4 million for State Wide using proceeds from our 8.75% Note offerings.   State Wide s sales were approximately $26.0 million and pro forma
operating income was approximately $1.2 million for 2005. 

We have entered into an
agreement with a major paint manufacturer whereby Truck Accessories, Morgan,
Morgan Olson and Specialty Vehicles Group are committed to buying principally
all of their automotive paint requirements from this manufacturer for five
years.  We will receive favorable pricing
in return for the commitment.  We
estimate that we will purchase approximately $6.5 million of paint products
during 2006 from this manufacturer. 
Also, we committed to the purchase of certain amounts of aluminum based
on expected levels of future production. 
As of December 31, 2005, Morgan had committed to purchase $4.8 million
of aluminum for consumption in 2006.  We
did not have any material commitments to acquire new capital equipment as of
December 31, 2005.  

Certain c ash contractual obligations of ours as of
December 31, 2005 are summarized in the table below.  

Other matters   

We are significantly leveraged
and will continue to be significantly leveraged. We had $9.7 million of
stockholder s equity at December 31, 2005 compared to $4.6 million at
December 31, 2004. We operate in cyclical businesses and the markets for
our products are highly competitive. In addition, we have two customers that
accounted for 25% of 2005 consolidated net sales and our top ten customers
accounted for 35% of our 2005 consolidated net sales. The combination of these
factors, some of which are outside our control, cause us to be subject to
changes in economic trends and new business developments.  

We continually evaluate,
depending on market conditions, the most efficient use of our capital and
contemplate various strategic options, which may include, without limitation,
restructuring our business, indebtedness or capital structure. Accordingly, we
or our subsidiaries may from time to time consider, among other things,
purchasing, refinancing or otherwise retiring certain outstanding indebtedness
(whether in the open market or by other means), public or private issuances of
debt or equity securities, joint venture transactions, acquisitions or
dispositions, new borrowings, tender offers, exchange offers or any combination
thereof, although there can be no assurances that such financing sources will
be available on commercially reasonable terms. There can be no assurances that
these strategic options, if pursued, will be consummated or, if consummated,
what effect they will have on us.  

We utilized net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $7.2 million during 2005 for U.S. federal
income tax purposes.  The Company has
alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of approximately $3.0 million at
December 31, 2005 for U.S. federal tax purposes, which may be carried forward
indefinitely.  In addition, the Company
has a capital loss carry forward of approximately $3.6 million at December 31,
2005 for U.S. federal  

32  

income tax purposes, which may
only be carried forward for five years.  At
December 31, 2005 and  2004,
we had state tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $63.0
million and recognized a deferred tax asset of $3.4 million.  At December 31, 2005, the state net operating
loss carryforwards expire at varying dates ranging from one to 20 years.  At December 31, 2004, we recorded a valuation
allowance of $3.4 million against this deferred tax asset as it was uncertain
as to whether it would be realized in the future.  During 2005, we re-evaluated the $3.4 million
deferred tax asset and determined that $1.0 million was realizable and reduced
the valuation allowance by that amount. 
The reduction in the valuation allowance reduced the tax provision for
2005 by an equal amount or $1.0 million.  
 Utilization of these operating and
capital loss carryforwards is dependent on future taxable income.  

Historically, inflation has not
materially affected our business; however, a rapid acceleration of material
price inflation reduced our operating profit margins during 2005 and 2004.  We believe that we have increased our selling
prices to levels necessary to offset the raw material cost inflation that has
been experienced during both 2005 and 2004. 
We have implemented further price increases at Morgan, Truck Accessories
and Specialty Manufacturing during the first quarter of 2006 but cannot predict
the impact, if any, of future raw material price increases on our
profitability.  Operating expenses, such
as salaries and employee benefits, are subject to normal inflationary
pressures.  

We pay fees to Southwestern
Holdings, Inc., which is wholly-owned by Mr. Poindexter, for
services provided by Mr. Poindexter. Mr. Poindexter does not receive
a salary from us.  

Recently issued accounting standards   

In November 2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 151,    Inventory Costs   an amendment of APB No.
43, Chapter 4.     This standard
states that idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material
be accounted for as current-period expense regardless of whether they meet the
criterion of  abnormal,  as previously defined. 
The effective date for the Company is fiscal year 2006.  The adoption of this standard is not expected
to have any significant impact on the Company s financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.   

In December 2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 153,    Exchange of Non-monetary Assets   an
amendment of APB Opinion No. 29.    The standard eliminates certain
exceptions that were contained in APB Opinion No. 29 to the principle that
exchanges of non-monetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of
assets exchanged.  The effective date for
the Company is for fiscal year 2006.  The
adoption of this standard is not expected to have any significant impact on the
Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

In May 2005, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 154    Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections .    SFAS 154 changes the requirements for the
accounting for and reporting of voluntary change in accounting principle, and
for changes required by an accounting pronouncement that does not have a
specific transition provision.  When
recognizing a change in accounting principle, retrospective application of the
principle to the prior period s financial statements is generally
specified.  The effective date for the
Company is for fiscal year 2006. The adoption of the standard is not expected
to have any significant impact on the Company s financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.   

Item 7a.                   Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk   

We
are subject to certain market risks, including interest rate risk and foreign
currency risk. The adverse effects of potential changes in these market risks
are discussed below. The sensitivity analyses presented do not consider the
effects that such adverse changes may have on overall economic activity, nor do
they consider additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such
changes. Actual results may differ. See the notes to our consolidated financial
statements elsewhere in this 10K for a description of our accounting policies
and other information related to these financial instruments.  

Variable-rate debt.       We currently have no
borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. The interest rates
on the revolving credit facility are based upon a spread above either the prime
interest rate or the London Interbank Overnight Rate (LIBOR), which rate used
is determined at our option.  

33  

Fixed-rate debt.       As of December 31, 2005,
the Company had $200.0 million of 8.75% Notes outstanding, with an
estimated fair value of approximately $169.0 million based upon the traded
value at December 31, 2005. Market risk, estimated as the potential increase in
fair value resulting from a hypothetical 1.0% decrease in interest rates, was
approximately $9.9 million as of December 31, 2005  

Foreign currency.       We have two
manufacturing plants in Canada, which generated revenues of approximately
$46.0 million during 2005. The functional currency of our Canadian
operations is the Canadian dollar. We do not currently employ risk management
techniques to manage this potential exposure to foreign currency
fluctuations.  A significant amount of
our production is exported to customers in the United States. Therefore, a
weakening of the United States dollar in relation to the Canadian dollar may
have the effect of decreasing our gross margins in Canada, assuming that the
United States sales price remains unchanged.  

34  

Item
8.                    Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data   

35  

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

Board of Directors and Stockholder of 
J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.  

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. and subsidiaries
(Company) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholder s equity (capital deficiency), and cash flows
for the years then ended.  These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.  

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.  

36  

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

Board of Directors and Stockholder of 
J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.  

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
statements of income, stockholder s equity (capital deficiency), and cash flows
of J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. and subsidiaries for the year ended December
31, 2003. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audit.  

We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated results of
operations of J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. and subsidiaries and its cash
flows for the year ended December 31, 2003 in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.  

As discussed in Note 1, the accompanying consolidated
statements of income, stockholder s equity (capital deficiency), and cash flows
for the year ended December 31, 2003, have been restated to include the
financial statements of Morgan Olson for the period that both the Company and
Morgan Olson were under common control.  

37  

J.B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   

(Dollars in Thousands)   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.   

38  

J.B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

   (Dollars in Thousands)   

The accompanying notes are
an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

39  

J.B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
STOCKHOLDER S EQUITY (CAPITAL DEFICIENCY)   

   (Dollars in Thousands)   

The accompanying notes are
an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

40  

J.B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS   

   (Dollars in Thousands)   

The accompanying notes are
an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   

41  

J.B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

   (dollars in thousands)   

1.                       Organization   Business 

J.B. Poindexter  
Co., Inc. ( JBPCO ) and its subsidiaries (the  Subsidiaries , and together
with JBPCO, the  Company ) operate primarily manufacturing businesses
principally in North America. JBPCO is owned and controlled by John Poindexter.  

On March 15, 2004, the
Company acquired from John Poindexter (see Note 4), the sole shareholder
of the Company, the stock of Morgan Olson that he had acquired effective
July 15, 2003. The historical financial statements of the Company were
restated to reflect the merger on a basis similar to a pooling of interests so
as to combine the financial statements of both companies for the period they
were under common control.  

On November 5, 2004, the
Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Pace Edwards Company, a
Washington State manufacturer of pickup truck accessories.  On December 15, 2004, the Company acquired
the stock of Commercial Babcock Inc., a Canadian manufacturer of truck bodies
(see Note 4).  

On June 6, 2005, the Company
acquired 100% of the membership interests of Federal Coach LLC, an Arkansas
based manufacturer of funeral coaches, limousines and specialty buses (see Note
4).  

Morgan Corporation ( Morgan )      manufactures truck
bodies in the United States and Canada for dry freight and refrigerated trucks
and vans (excluding those made for pickup trucks and tractor-trailer trucks).  Morgan s operations include Commercial
Babcock, Inc.  The truck bodies are
attached to truck chassis provided by its customers.  Customers include rental companies, truck
dealers and companies that operate fleets of delivery vehicles. The principal raw
materials used by Morgan include steel, aluminum, fiberglass reinforced
plywood, hardwood and oil acquired from a variety of sources.  

Morgan Olson Corporation ( Morgan
Olson )      manufactures step van bodies for parcel, food, vending,
uniform, linen and other delivery applications. Step vans are specialized
vehicles designed for multiple stop applications and enable the driver of the
truck to easily access the cargo area. Morgan Olson manufactures the complete
truck body, including the installation of windows, doors, instrument panels,
seating, wiring and painting. The step van bodies are installed on truck
chassis provided by Morgan Olson s customers. The principal raw materials used
by Morgan Olson include steel and aluminum.  

Truck Accessories
Group, Inc. ( Truck Accessories )      manufactures pickup
truck caps and tonneau covers, which are fabricated enclosures that fit over
the open beds of pickup trucks, converting the beds into weatherproof storage
areas. Truck Accessories includes Leer, Century Fiberglass ( Century ), Raider
Industries Inc. ( Raider ), and Pace Edwards Company. The principal raw
materials used by Truck Accessories include resin, fiberglass, paint, and
manufactured locks and windows.  

Specialty Manufacturing
Division ( Specialty Manufacturing )      comprises the Specialty
Vehicle Group, MIC Group, Inc. ( MIC Group ), and EFP Corp ( EFP ). The
Specialty Vehicle Group comprises Federal Coach LLC (see note 4) and Eagle
Specialty Vehicles, Inc., which was acquired effective January 3, 2006 (see note
19).  The Specialty Vehicle Group
manufactures funeral coaches, limousines and specialty buses.  MIC Group is a manufacturer, investment
caster and assembler of precision metal parts for use in the worldwide oil and
gas exploration, automotive and aerospace industries and other general
industries. EFP molds, fabricates and markets expandable foam products which
are used as packaging, shock absorbing and materials handling products
primarily by the automotive, electronics, furniture, construction, appliance
and other industries. It also manufactures products used as thermal insulators.
The principal raw materials used by Specialty Manufacturing are expandable
polystyrene, polypropylene, polyethylene, resins, ferrous and non-ferrous
materials including stainless steel, alloy steels, nickel-based alloys,
titanium, brass, beryllium-copper alloys and aluminum.  The Specialty Vehicle Group purchases vehicle
chassis from the major automotive manufacturers  dealers for modification and
sale to its customers.  

42  

2.                       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Principles of Consolidation.    The consolidated financial statements have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States.  All intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents.    Cash and all highly liquid
investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase,
including short term deposits and government agency and corporate obligations,
are classified as cash and cash equivalents. 

Short Term Investments.    Short-term investments,
considered to be available-for-sale investments, include auction rate municipal
bond securities with original maturities beyond three months.  Available-for-sale investments are those
which the Company may decide to sell if needed for liquidity, asset-liability
management or other reasons.  Available-for-sale
investments are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses included
as a separate component of equity.  There
were $89 of unrealized gains or losses on these investments at December 31,
2005.  Interest and dividend income, adjusted
by amortization of purchase premium or discount, is included in earnings.  Realized gains or losses are determined based
on the amortized cost of the specific investment sold and are included in
earnings.  There were no realized gains
or losses on the sale of investments included in the determination of net
income for 2005, 2004 and 2003. 

Revenue Recognition  .  Revenue is recognized upon
shipment of the product to customers, except for Morgan and Morgan Olson where
revenue is recognized when title transfers to the customer upon final body
assembly, quality inspection and customer notification.  Amounts billed to customers related to
shipping and handling is classified as revenue. 
The costs associated with the shipping and handling revenue are included
in cost of sales. 

Accounts Receivable.    The Company sells to customers as is
customary in its industries and typically extends its customers 30 day payment
terms.  Interest is not normally charged
on accounts receivable.  Accounts
receivable is stated net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $1,490 and
$933 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  The Company establishes an allowance for
doubtful accounts receivable on a case by case basis when it believes that the
required payment of specific amounts owed is unlikely to occur.  The activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts
for the years ended December 31, was: 

The carrying amounts of trade accounts receivable approximate fair
value because of the short maturity of those instruments.  The Company is not aware of any significant
credit risks related to its customer base and does not generally require
collateral or other security to support customer receivables.  

Inventories.    Inventories are stated at the lower of cost
or market.  Cost is determined by the
first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. 

Property, Plant and Equipment.    Property, plant and equipment, including
property under capital leases, are stated at cost.  The cost of property under capital leases
represents the present value of the future minimum lease payments at the
inception of the lease.  Depreciation and
amortization is computed by using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives of the applicable assets. 
The cost of maintenance and repairs is charged to 

43  

operating expense as incurred and the cost of major replacements and
significant improvements is capitalized. 
The Company records impairment losses on long-lived assets used in
operations when events and circumstances indicate that the assets may be
impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those
assets are less than the carrying amounts of those assets.  

Debt Issuance Costs.    Debt issuance costs are amortized using the
effective interest method over the term of the related debt, which ranges from
four to ten years. Amortization of debt issuance costs are included in interest
expense. 

Evaluation of Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.    In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS )
No. 144,    Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets   ,
the Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets whenever
significant events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of
these assets may be impaired.  The
Company evaluates potential impairment of long-lived assets by comparing the
carrying value of the assets to the expected net future cash flows resulting
from the use of the assets.  Management
believes no material impairment of long-lived assets exists at December 31, 2005
and 2004. 

Warranty.    Morgan provides product warranties for
periods up to five years.  Morgan Olson
provides a warranty period, which is one year or 12,000 miles for components,
three years or 36,000 miles for paint and five years or 50,000 miles for the
van body structure.  Truck Accessories
provides a warranty period, exclusive to the original truck owner, which is, in
general but with exclusions, one year for parts, five years for paint and
lifetime for structure.  The Specialty
Vehicle Group provides a warranty on its products for a period of 36 months or
36,000 miles on the section of the body and parts manufactured for funeral
coaches and funeral limousines, 12 months or 12,000 miles on the body and parts
manufactured for bus bodies and 24 months or 24,000 miles on the section of the
body and parts manufactured for limousines. 
The remaining operations of Specialty Manufacturing do not provide a
warranty on their products.  A provision
for warranty costs is included in cost of sales when goods are sold based on
historical experience and estimated future claims.  The Company had accrued warranty costs of
$4.3 million and $4.2 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  The activity in the accrued warranty cost
accounts for the years ended December 31, was: 

Advertising and Research and Development Expense.    The
Company expenses advertising costs and research and development ( R D )
costs as incurred.  During the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, advertising expense was approximately
$3.3 million,     $2.4 million and $2.0 million,
respectively and R D expense was approximately $2.2 million, $1.6 million
and $1.5 million, respectively. 

Income Taxes.    The Company accounts for income taxes under
the provisions of SFAS No. 109,    Accounting for Income
Taxes.     Under SFAS
No. 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are computed based on the
difference between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and
liabilities using the enacted tax rates. 

The Company s management believes that it is more likely than not that
current and long-term deferred tax assets will reduce future income tax
payments.  The Company has considered
on-going prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in making this
assessment. There are significant assumptions inherent in the Company s prudent
and feasible tax planning strategies. 
Changes in these assumptions would impact the estimated amount of
deferred tax assets realized by these tax planning strategies.  Should the Company determine that it is more
likely  

44  

than not unable to realize all or part of the net deferred tax asset in
the future, a valuation allowance, necessary to reduce the deferred tax asset
to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized,  would reduce income in the period such
determination was made.  

Self-Insurance
Risks  .  The Company utilizes a combination of
insurance coverage and self-insurance programs for property, casualty,
including workers  compensation and health care insurance.  The Company records an actuarially
determined, fully developed self insurance reserve to cover the self insured
portion of these risks based on known facts and historical industry trends.  Changes in the assumptions used by the
actuary could result in a different self-insurance reserve. 

Contingent
Liabilities.    Reserves are established for estimated
environmental and legal loss contingencies when a loss is probable and the
amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. 
Revisions to contingent liabilities are reflected in income in the
period in which different facts or information become known or circumstances
change that affect the previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or
amount of loss.  Reserves for contingent
liabilities are based upon the assumptions and estimates regarding the probable
outcome of the matter.  Should the
outcome differ from the assumptions and estimates, revisions to the estimated
reserves for contingent liabilities would be required. 

Comprehensive Income.   Comprehensive income consists of net income and other comprehensive
income.  Other comprehensive income
includes foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and
losses on available-for-sale investments, which are also recognized as separate
components of equity. 

Translation of Foreign Financial Statements.    Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at year-end
rates of exchange, and the income statements are translated at the average
rates of exchanges for the year.  Gains
or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements are
accumulated in a separate component of stockholder s equity until the foreign
operations are sold or substantially liquidated.  Gains or losses resulting from foreign
currency transactions (transactions that require settlement in a currency other
than the Company s functional currency) are included in net income. 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments  .  The
Company s financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents,
receivables, and debt.  Fair values of
cash and cash equivalents and receivables approximate carry values for these
financial instruments since they are relatively short-term in nature.  The carrying amount of debt, except for the
Company s 8.75% Notes (See Note 10), approximates the fair value due either to
length of maturity or existence of variable interest rates that approximate
prevailing market rates. 

Use of Estimates.   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period.  Actual
results could differ from those estimates. 
Significant estimates subject to change include the valuation of
goodwill and other intangible assets, the allowances for doubtful accounts and
shrinkage and excess and obsolete inventory, the valuation of deferred tax
assets, and the allowances for self-insurance risks, warranty claims, and
environmental claims. 

New Accounting Standards
to be Adopted.     In
November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,    Inventory
Costs   an amendment of APB No. 43, Chapter 4.     This standard states that idle facility
expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material be accounted for as
current-period expense regardless of whether they meet the criterion of
 abnormal,  as previously defined.  The
effective date for the Company is fiscal year 2006.  The adoption of this standard is not expected
to have any significant impact on the Company s financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.  

45  

In December 2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 153,    Exchange of Non-monetary Assets   an
amendment of APB Opinion No. 29.    The standard eliminates certain
exceptions that were contained in APB Opinion No. 29 to the principle that
exchanges of non-monetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of
assets exchanged.  The effective date for
the Company is for fiscal year 2006.  The
adoption of this standard is not expected to have any significant impact on the
Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

In May 2005, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 154    Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections .    SFAS 154 changes the requirements for the
accounting for and reporting of voluntary change in accounting principle, and
for changes required by an accounting pronouncement that does not have a
specific transition provision.  When
recognizing a change in accounting principle, retrospective application of the
principle to the prior period s financial statements is generally
specified.  The effective date for the
Company is for fiscal year 2006.  The
adoption of the standard is not expected to have any significant impact on the
Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   

Reclassifications.    Certain prior year amounts have
been reclassified to conform to the classifications used in fiscal 2005. 

3.                       Segment Data 

The
Company operates and manages its subsidiaries within the separate business
segments described in Note 1.  The
Company evaluates performance and allocates resources based on the operating
income of each segment.  The accounting
policies of the reportable business segments are the same as those described in
the summary of significant accounting policies.  

The
following is a summary of the business segment data for the years ended
December 31:  

46  

Morgan
has two customers (truck leasing and rental companies) that accounted for, on a
combined basis, approximately 47%, 46% and 41% of Morgan s net sales during
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.   Accounts receivable from these customers totaled
$4.7 million and $5.7 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.   Specialty
Manufacturing has one customer in the international oil field service industry
that accounted for approximately 15%,     18% and 15% of
Specialty Manufacturing s net sales during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.   Accounts
receivable from this customer totaled $1.8 million and $1.3 million at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.   

Morgan Olson was acquired effective July 15, 2003
and is operating as a separate segment. Morgan Olson had three customers that
accounted for approximately 38% and 53% of Morgan Olson s net sales during 2005
and 2004, respectively.  Accounts
receivable from these customers totaled $0.3 million and $2.3 million at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 
 During 2003,
Morgan Olson supplied step vans to the United States Postal Service that
accounted for 62% of sales during that year.   Morgan Olson manufactured and shipped truck bodies for Commercial
Babcock and charged Commercial Babcock $0.5 million during the year ended
December 31, 2005 for the products . 
In addition, Morgan Olson sold $0.3 million of parts to Morgan for the
year ended December 31, 2005. 

The
Company, on a consolidated basis, has two customers that accounted for
approximately 25%, 25% and 21% of total net sales during 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.  Accounts receivable from
these customers totaled $4.7 million and $5.7 million at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. These are customers of Morgan.  

The Company s operations are located principally in the United
States.  However, Morgan and Truck
Accessories have operations located in Canada. 
Long-lived assets relating to these foreign operations were $9.6 million
and     $9.0 million at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively.  Consolidated net
sales included $21.5 million, $17.2 million and     $15.1
million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, of sales to customers outside the
United States.  

JBPCO
(Corporate) operating expenses for all periods comprise the costs of the parent
company office and personnel that provide strategic direction and support to
the subsidiary companies.   The JBPCO (Corporate) costs of $5.1 million,
$5.9 million and $3.6 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively,
included the loss on   

47  

extinguishment of debt of $2.4 million during the
2004 period and refinancing costs of $831 less a gain of $368 on the retirement
of debt during the 2003 period.  

Total assets as of December 31, 2005 increased
$55.6 million compared to December 31, 2004 due primarily to net cash
proceeds of approximately $46.4 million from the sale of an additional
$45.0 million of 8.75% Notes (see Note 10) on January 21, 2005, and the
addition of approximately $18.0 million of total assets from the acquisition of
Federal Coach made during the second quarter of 2005 (see Note 4).  

4.                       Acquisitions 

Effective March 15, 2004, the Company acquired from John Poindexter,
the sole shareholder of the Company, the stock of Morgan Olson, a truck body
manufacturing company that he acquired effective July 15, 2003.  Mr. Poindexter acquired certain assets of
Morgan Olson from Grumman Olson Industries, Inc. in a bankruptcy proceeding and
contributed those assets to the Company. 
Mr. Poindexter paid approximately $13.9 million for the assets including
$3.0 million in cash that he contributed as equity of Morgan Olson and assumed
certain liabilities of approximately $1.5 million.  The purchase price was allocated to the
assets based on the estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition.  There was no goodwill recorded with the
acquisition. The historical financial statements of the Company have been
restated to reflect the merger on a basis similar to a pooling of interests so
as to combine the financial statements of both companies for the period they
were under common control.  

The cash purchase price was
allocated to the acquired net assets based on the estimated fair values as of
the date of the original acquisition as follows:  

Effective November 5, 2004 the Company acquired
substantially all of the assets of Pace Edwards Company ( Pace Edwards ).  The results of Pace Edward s operations have
been included in the consolidated financial statements since that date.  Pace Edwards is located in Washington State
and is a leading manufacturer of retractable tonneau covers in the pickup truck
accessories business.  Pace Edwards
operates as a division of Truck Accessories and continues to utilize the
purchased assets in the same manner as prior to the acquisition.  

48  

The aggregate purchase price was approximately
$9.6 million for the assets of Pace Edwards.  The acquisition has been accounted for as a
purchase and, accordingly, the acquired assets and liabilities assumed have
been recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition and
approximated the following:  

Effective
December 15, 2004 the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of
Commercial Babcock Inc. ( Commercial Babcock ), a Canadian company located in
Brampton, Ontario. The results of Commercial Babcock s operations have been
included in the consolidated financial statements since that date.  Commercial Babcock is a manufacturer and
marketer of medium-duty truck bodies for the eastern Canadian market.  Commercial Babcock operates as a division of
Morgan and continues to utilize the purchased assets in the same manner as
prior to the acquisition.  

The
aggregate purchase price was $8.9 million for the outstanding stock of
Commercial Babcock.   The acquisition has been accounted for as a
purchase and, accordingly, the acquired assets and liabilities assumed have
been recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition and
approximated the following:   

Effective June 6, 2005, the Company acquired 100% of the membership
interests in Federal Coach LLC ( Federal Coach ).  The results of Federal Coach s operations
have been included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company
since that date.  Federal Coach is
located in Fort Smith, Arkansas and is a manufacturer of funeral coaches,
limousines and mid-sized buses.  Federal
Coach operates as a division of the Specialty Manufacturing Group and continues
to utilize the purchased assets in the same manner as prior to the acquisition.
The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and the aggregate purchase
price was approximately $12.3 million. 
The following summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition;   

49  

The
combined results of operations of the Company for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 and Morgan Olson, Pace Edwards, Commercial Babcock and
Federal Coach for the periods prior to their acquisition on an unaudited pro
forma basis would be as follows:  

5.                       Inventories 

Consolidated
net inventories consisted of the following:  

Inventories are stated net of an allowance for excess and obsolete
inventory of $2.5 million and     $2.8 million
at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 
The activity in the allowance for excess and obsolete inventory accounts
for the years ended December 31, was:  

50  

6.                       Property, Plant and Equipment 

Property, plant and equipment, as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, consisted of the following:   

Machinery and Equipment included approximately $4.3 million and $3.3
million of equipment at cost recorded under capital leases as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively, and accumulated depreciation of approximately $1.4
million and $600 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

In the third quarter of 2005, the Company decided to consolidate its
truck accessories group in Canada which resulted in a write-down of its
Drinkwater facility.  The write-down of
$377 has been recorded as closed and excess facility costs.  

Depreciation expense was $9.7 million,     $9.1
million and $8.9 million and included $742, $324 and $153 for assets recorded
under capital leases, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.  

7.                            Goodwill, Intangibles and Other Assets 

Goodwill represents the excess of costs over fair value of net assets
of businesses acquired.  Pursuant to SFAS
No. 142,    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   ,
goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination and
determined to have an indefinite life are not amortized, but instead tested for
impairment at least annually.  

The Company completed its annual impairment review effective October 1,
2005, 2004 and 2003, which indicated that there was no impairment.  The fair value of our reporting units is
based on acquisition multiples, which are derived from information and analysis
of recent acquisitions in the market place for companies with similar
operations.  

SFAS No. 142 also requires that intangible assets with estimable useful
lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives and reviewed
for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144,    Accounting
for Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  .   

The Company records impairment losses on long-lived assets used in
operations when events and circumstances indicate that the assets may be
impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those
assets are less than the carrying amounts of those assets.  At December 31, 2005 goodwill comprised of
approximately $7.4 million, $11.4 million and $6.0 million for the Morgan,
Truck Accessories, and Specialty Manufacturing reporting units, respectively.  

Effective November 5, 2004 the Company acquired substantially all of
the assets of Pace Edwards Company, a manufacturing company in the pickup cap
and tonneau business (see Note 4) that was combined with the Truck   

51  

Accessories segment.  Goodwill of
$1.0 million and acquired intangibles estimated to be approximately $3.5
million were assigned to Truck Accessories.  

Effective December 15, 2004 the Company acquired all of the outstanding
stock of Commercial Babcock Inc., a Canadian company located in Ontario,
Canada. Commercial Babcock is a manufacturer and marketer of truck bodies in
the Eastern Canada market and was combined with the Morgan segment (see Note
4).  Goodwill of approximately $5.4
million and acquired intangibles estimated to be approximately $2.7 million
were assigned to Morgan.  

Effective June 6, 2005 the Company acquired all of the membership
interests in Federal Coach LLC, located in Fort Smith, Arkansas.  Federal Coach is a manufacturer of funeral
coaches, limousines and specialty buses, and was combined with the Specialty
Manufacturing segment.  Goodwill of
approximately $1.8 million and acquired intangibles of approximately $3.7
million were assigned to Specialty Manufacturing.  

Effective May 28, 2004, the
Company sold principally all of the assets of the distribution business of
Truck Accessories and accordingly it was presented as a discontinued
operation.  The Company wrote down
goodwill of $300 associated with the operation (see Note 18).  

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 were:  

Intangible
assets (all acquired in connection with the acquisitions described in Note 4)
and the related accumulated amortization as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 were:  

52  

The amortization of intangible assets was $523, $422 and $260 for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Estimated
amortization expense for each of the subsequent five years ending December 31
is as follows: 2006- $602, 2007-$477, 2008-$477, 2009-$475 and 2010-$434.  

Other assets, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
consisted of the following:  

The amortization of debt
issuance costs was $598, $592 and $714 for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003.  Estimated amortization
expense for each of the subsequent five years ending December 31 is $840 per
year.  

During 2004, the Company created a trust in favor of its insurance
carrier to secure its liabilities under its self insured, casualty insurance
program including workmen s compensation insurance.  The liabilities were previously secured by an
irrevocable stand-by letter of credit that was cancelled upon the deposit of
approximately $5.5 million into the trust.  

8.         Floorplan
Notes Payable   

The Company has floorplan
financing agreement with Ford Motor Credit Company for financing part of its chassis
inventory at Federal Coach.  Floorplan
notes payable reflect the monetary value of the chassis that are in the
Company s possession as of December 31, 2005. 
These obligations are reflected on the accompanying balance sheet as
accounts payables as a current liability.  

The total amount financed
under these agreements was $2.7 million as of December 31, 2005.  These borrowings bear interest at the prime
rate plus 150 basis points on the balances outstanding over 90 days.  As of December 31, 2005 the weighted average
interest rate on all outstanding floorplan notes payable was 1.6%.  The interest rate on the liabilities that
bear interest was 8.75% at December 31, 2005.  

53  

9.      
Revolving Credit Facility   

On March 15, 2004, concurrently with the  8.75% Note  offering discussed in Note 10, the Company entered
into a secured revolving credit agreement (the  Revolving Credit Facility )
that expires March 15, 2008.  The
Revolving Credit Facility currently provides for borrowings by the Company of
up to $30.0 million, which may be increased to $50.0 million at the Company s
option. The Revolving Credit Facility allows the Company to borrow funds up to
the lesser of $30.0 million or an amount based on the sum of: 1) advance rates
applied to the total amounts of eligible accounts receivable and inventories of
the Subsidiaries and 2) up to $20.0 million secured by the fixed assets of the
Company.  The advance rates are 85% for
eligible accounts receivable and 60% for eligible inventory, as defined.  Borrowings against inventory may not exceed
$20 million.  The Company is entitled to
include initially in the borrowing base up to an additional $20 million of
fixed assets, as defined.  The availability
of funds secured by the fixed assets will amortize to zero over 60 months for
that portion secured by machinery and equipment and 120 months for real estate
or the remaining term of the Revolving Credit Facility, whichever is
shorter.  The Revolving Credit Facility
includes a sub-facility for up to $15 million of letters of credit.  

The Revolving Credit Facility provides for borrowing at variable rates
of interest, based on either LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate, which was
4.8%     at December 31, 2005) plus a margin of
1.75% or the bank s base rate (the greater of the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5%
or it s prime rate, which was 7.25%     at December
31, 2005).  Interest is payable monthly
including a fee of 0.375% on the portion of the maximum amount of borrowings of
the $50.0 million total commitment, including the option to increase the
commitment, that remain unused during the period.  The Subsidiaries are also guarantors of the  8.75% Notes  defined in Note 10.  

The Revolving Credit Facility contains provisions
allowing the lender to accelerate the repayment of debt upon the occurrence of
an event the lender determines to represent a material adverse change.  The Revolving Credit Facility also contains
restrictive covenants, which, among other things, restrict the use of proceeds
from the sale of assets, the ability of the Company to incur additional debt or
pay dividends and restrict certain other corporate activities.  In addition, the Company is subject to a
financial covenant requiring it to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage
ratio, as defined, of a 1.0 to 1.0 should availability fall below $10
million.  At December 31, 2005, the
Company was in compliance with all covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility.
In the event that the Company s borrowing availability is below $20.0 million
the Company s cash balances will become restricted.  

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had no borrowings
outstanding and $2.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively, in standby letters
of credit (see Note 16) and had unused gross borrowing availability, based on
eligible accounts receivable and inventory, in excess of the $30.0 million
borrowing limit under the Revolving Credit Facility.  

10.          Long-term Debt and  8.75% Note  Offering   

Long-term debt as of December 31, 2005 and 2004
consisted of:  

54  

On March 15, 2004 the Company completed a note offering of $125.0
million, 8.75% senior notes due in 2014 (the   8.75%
Notes  ) with interest payable semiannually.  The proceeds, net of costs, of the note
offering of approximately $121.6 million were used to: (1) redeem the Company s
12.5% senior secured notes due 2007 in the amount of $79.8 million including
accrued interest through the redemption date of April 15, 2004 of  $3.9 million, (2) repay outstanding revolver
debt of the Company of  $22.0 million
including interest, (3) repay outstanding term and revolver debt of Morgan
Olson of $14.0 million including accrued interest and prepayment penalties, (4)
repay Specialty Manufacturing s outstanding term loan of $773 including accrued
interest and (5) provide temporary cash collateral for stand by letters of
credit of $6.1 million.  The cash
collateral for stand-by letters of credit was subsequently refunded upon the
cancellation of the letters of credit. 
On May 17, 2004, and January 21, 2005, the Company completed offers to
sell an additional $30.0 million and $45.0 million, respectively, of  8.75% Notes .  The additional $30.0 million of  8.75% Notes  were issued at par and the
$45.0 million of  8.75% Notes  were
issued at a 5% premium.  The additional  8.75% Notes  were issued on the same terms
as the original issue.  Net proceeds from
the additional offerings of approximately $46.4 million increased the Company s
cash balance.  The  8.75% Notes  mature on March 15, 2014 and
bear interest at an annual rate of 8.75% payable each September 15 and March
15, to the holders of record on September 1 and March 1 immediately preceding
the interest payment date.  Costs
associated with the $45 million offering of 8.75% Notes totaling approximately
$1.3 million have been capitalized as debt issuance costs (see Note 7) and will
be amortized over the term of the 8.75% Notes. 
The debt issuance costs related to the retired 12.5% senior secured notes
due 2007 of approximately $2.4 million were expensed during the year ended
December 31, 2004.  

On May 11, 2005, the Company completed an offer to exchange ( 2005
Exchange Offer ) $200 million principal amount of its 8.75% Notes which have
been registered under the Securities Act, for any and all of its outstanding
unregistered 8.75% Notes.  

The  8.75% Notes  are
subordinated to borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility (see Note 9) and
other secured indebtedness to the extent of the assets securing the debt.  Also, the Company s obligations under the  8.75% Notes  are guaranteed by each
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the  Subsidiary Guarantors ).  Each guarantee is a senior unsecured
obligation of the Subsidiary providing such Guarantee.  The Subsidiary Guarantors are also borrowers
under the Revolving Credit Facility (see Note 9).  

The Company has the option to redeem the  8.75% Notes  at any time on or after March 15, 2009, at a defined
premium plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.  The Company may redeem up to 35% of the  8.75% Notes  prior to March 15, 2007, at a
defined premium plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, in
connection with an Equity Offering, as defined.  

The  8.75% Notes   indenture
includes covenants that limit the ability of the Company to: incur additional
debt, including sale and leaseback transactions; pay dividends or distributions
on its capital stock or repurchase capital stock; issue stock of subsidiaries;
make certain investments; create liens on its assets to secure debt; enter into
transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate with another company; and
transfer and sell assets.  As noted, the
indenture contains a covenant to limit the incurrence of additional
indebtedness as measured by its Consolidated Coverage Ratio, as defined.  The Company may incur indebtedness if this
ratio is greater than 2.0 to 1.0 and there is no other event of default, as
defined.  At December 31, 2005, the
Consolidated Coverage Ratio, as defined, was 2.1 to 1.0.  

The Company estimates the fair value of the  8.75% Notes  at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was approximately
$169.0 and $162.8 million, based on their market value at that date compared to
a recorded amount of $200 million and $155.0 million, respectively.  

Effective June 10, 2003 the Company successfully completed the exchange
( 2003 Exchange Offer ) of $85.0 million of its 12.5% senior notes due 2004 for
$85.0 million of 12.5% senior secured notes due 2007.  Costs associated with the 2003 Exchange Offer
of $831 were expensed during the year ended December 31, 2003.  

55  

The Company s obligation under capital leases is due in varying
maturity dates through 2009.  The capital
leases are secured by certain equipment with a net book value of approximately
$2.9 million and $2.7 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

Maturities.   
Aggregate principal cash payments on long-term debt based on scheduled
maturities for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2005,
are as follows:       

11.                      Operating
Leases 

The Company leases certain manufacturing facilities and equipment under
non-cancelable operating leases certain of which contain renewal options.  The future minimum lease payments subsequent
to December 31, 2005 are as follows:  

Total rental expense included in continuing operations under all
operating leases was approximately $8.1 million, $9.2 million and $9.6 million
for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

12.          Supplemental Cash
Flow Information   

The supplemental cash flow information for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows:  

56  

13.          Income Taxes   

The income tax provision from continuing operations
consists of the following for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003:  

The following table reconciles the differences
between the federal statutory income tax rate and the effective tax rate for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:  

The domestic and foreign components of income (loss)
from continuing operations before income taxes and discontinued operations
were:  

57  

Deferred income taxes are based on the estimated future tax effects of differences
between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and liabilities given
the provisions of the enacted tax laws. 
The net deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2005
and 2004 were:  

The Company had alternative
minimum tax credit carryforwards of approximately $3.0 million and $1.4 million
at December 31, 2005 and 2004 for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may
be carried forward indefinitely.  The Company
had a capital loss carryforward of approximately $3.6 million at December 31,
2005 and 2004 for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may be carried
forward for five years.  During 2005, we
utilized net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal tax purposes of
approximately $7.2 million that were outstanding as of December 31, 2004.  At December 31, 2004, the Company had a
valuation allowance of approximately $1.4 million against the capital loss
carryforward deferred tax asset of $1.4 million.  At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company
had state tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $63.0 million
and recognized a deferred tax asset of $3.4 million.  At December 31, 2005, the state net operating
loss carryforwards expire at varying dates ranging from one to 20 years.  At December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a
valuation allowance of $3.4 million against this deferred tax asset as it was
uncertain as to whether it would be realized. 
During 2005, the Company re-evaluated the $3.4 million deferred tax
asset and determined that $1.0 million was realizable and reduced the valuation
allowance by that amount.  The reduction
in the valuation allowance reduced the tax provision for the year by an equal
amount or $1.0 million.  The Company
believes, based on available evidence, that it is more likely than not that the
Company s net deferred tax asset will be realized in the future.  

14.                      Common
Stock 

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, there were
100,000 shares authorized and 3,059 shares issued and outstanding of JBPCO
common stock with a par value of $.01 per share.  JBPCO was incorporated in Delaware.  No other classes of common stock, preferred
stock or common stock equivalents exist.  

58  

15.                      Employee
Benefit Plans 

Employee Incentive Plans  .  The Company has an  incentive compensation plan for members of upper
management of each of the Subsidiaries to provide for the payments of annual
bonuses based upon the attainment of performance-based goals. Eligible
employees are entitled to receive a bonus if the subsidiary attains or
surpasses a stated percentage of that subsidiary s earnings before interest and
taxes, with the amount of bonus being tied to the subsidiary s actual pre-tax
profits. Individual bonuses are then allocated among the eligible employees
based upon their individual achievement of stated performance objectives
including working capital performance objectives. The Company incurred expenses
related to this plan totaling $1,539, $1,508 and $2,223 for the years ended December
31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

JBPCO 401(k) Defined Contribution Plan.   The JBPCO-sponsored 401(k) savings plan
allows participating employees to contribute through salary deductions up to
100% of gross compensation and provides for Company matching contributions up
to three percent of the first six percent of gross pay as well as the
opportunity for an annual discretionary contribution.  The Company increased the matching percentage
to three percent from two and one-half percent effective June 1, 2005.  The Company has not made discretionary
contributions.  Vesting in the Company
matching contribution is 20% per year over the first five years.  The Company incurred related employer
matching contribution and administrative expenses of $1.4 million,     $1.0 million and $0.7 million during the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

Defined Benefit Plan.       Truck Accessories assumed future sponsorship
of a defined benefit plan (the  Plan ) covering hourly employees at its Gem Top
division that was sold and all the employees terminated effective February 28,
2003.  The plan was frozen effective
March 31, 1996 and at December 31, 2005 and 2004 the plan was underfunded by
approximately $33 and $48, respectively. 
The Company s funding policy for the Truck Accessories plan is to make
the minimum annual contributions required by applicable regulations. 

The Plan has invested its assets through a group annuity contract with
an insurance company.  The targeted
composition is set by the Company and is reallocated periodically.  The long-term portfolio is chosen based on
the duration of the Plan s individual population and is set towards funding for
benefits payable in the future.  The fair
value of the Plan s assets was $286 and $217 as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  The pension expense
recognized was $39, $28 and $51 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively. Based on immateriality of the Plan, Management does not
believe expanded disclosure is necessary.  

16.                      Commitments
and Contingencies 

Claims and Lawsuits.    The Company is involved in
certain claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of business.  In the opinion of management, the ultimate
resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the
financial position or results of operations of the Company. 

Letters of Credit and Other Commitments.        The Company had $2.3 million and $0.3 million
in standby letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
primarily securing the Company s insurance programs.  During 2004, the Company deposited $5.5
million into a trust account in favor of its insurance carrier (See Note
7).  The funds will be held in trust to
secure the Company s insurance programs. 
Income from the trust accrues to the Company. 

During 2004, the Company entered into an agreement with a key paint supplier,
whereby it will exclusively purchase inventory from this supplier for five
years, in return for favorable pricing. 
The Company estimates that it will purchase approximately $6.5 million
from this supplier in 2006.  

Consigned Chassis Inventories.    The Company obtains vehicle chassis for
certain units produced at Morgan and Commercial Babcock directly from the
chassis manufacturer under a bailment pool agreement with General Motors
Acceptance Corporation.  Chassis are
obtained directly from the manufacturer based on orders from customers, which
are typically manufacturer 

59  

dealers.  The agreements generally provide that the
Company is restricted to producing certain conversions or upfittings on these
chassis.  The manufacturer does not
transfer the certificate of origin to the Company and, accordingly, the Company
accounts for the chassis as consigned inventory belonging to the
manufacturer.  Under these agreements, if
the chassis is not delivered to a customer within a specified timeframe, the
Company is required to pay a finance charge based on the value of the chassis.  The finance charges incurred on consigned
chassis inventories, included in interest expense in the consolidated
statements of income totaled $28, $0 and $0 for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  Total
consigned chassis inventory totaled $1.4 million and $0 at December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively.  

Environmental Matters  .          The
Company s operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local
environmental and health and safety statutes and regulations, including those
relating to emissions to the air, discharges to water, treatment, storage and
disposal of waste and remediation of contaminated sites. In certain cases,
these requirements may limit the productive capacity of  the Company  s operations. Certain laws, including the Federal
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980,
as amended ( Superfund ) impose strict, and under certain circumstances, joint
and several, liability for costs to remediate contaminated sites upon
designated responsible parties including site owners or operators and, persons
who dispose of wastes at, or transport wastes to, such sites. Some of the
Company s operations also require permits which may restrict its activities and
which are subject to renewal, modification or revocation by issuing authorities.
In addition, the Company generates non-hazardous wastes, which are also subject
to regulation under applicable environmental laws. 

From time to time, the Company
has received notices of noncompliance with respect to its operations, which
have typically been resolved by investigating the alleged noncompliance,
correcting any noncompliant conditions and paying minor fines, none of which
individually or in the aggregate has had a material adverse effect on the
Company.   Further, the Company cannot ensure that it
has been or will be at all times in compliance with all of these requirements,
including those related to reporting or permit restrictions or that it will not
incur material fines, penalties, costs or liabilities in connection with such
requirements or a failure to comply with them. 
 However, the Company expects that the
nature of its operations will continue to make it subject to increasingly
stringent environmental regulatory standards. Although the Company believes it
has made sufficient capital expenditures to maintain compliance with existing
laws and regulations, future expenditures may be necessary, as compliance
standards and technology change or as unanticipated circumstances arise.
Unforeseen and significant expenditures required, for example, to comply with
new or more aggressively enforced requirements or newly discovered conditions
could limit expansion or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the
Company s business and financial condition.  

Morgan Olson s two manufacturing sites in Sturgis,
Michigan overlie, or are in close proximity to, a regional plume of volatile
organic compound groundwater contamination. Available information indicates
that one of the sites was a likely source of part of the groundwater
contamination, and that groundwater contamination is present under the second
site. In August 2003, Morgan Olson submitted applications for Baseline
Environmental Assessments for each site to the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality ( MDEQ ). In October 2003, the MDEQ accepted these
applications and granted to Morgan Olson a liability exemption for any
pre-acquisition releases of volatile organic compounds from these sites that
may have contributed to the regional groundwater contamination subject to
certain conditions, including an agreement not to use chlorinated solvents and
to implement certain engineering controls to minimize future releases at the
sites. Based on the granting of the liability exemption, Morgan Olson does not
believe that it has any responsibility for the investigation or remediation of
the regional groundwater contamination. However, the exemption does not apply
to other applicable laws or regulations, and there can be no guarantee that
newly discovered conditions or future activities at the sites will not result
in significant costs.  

In June 2005, Morgan Olson was notified by the MDEQ that it had failed
to file certain reports related to its air permit, wastewater discharge, and
chemical inventory.  The Company is in
discussions with the MDEQ to correct and settle these alleged violations.  At this point it is not known if the MDEQ
will take enforcement action against  

60  

Morgan Olson, and the financial impact of such an enforcement action,
if any, cannot be estimated. The ultimate financial impact is not expected to
be material, however.  

In
July 2005, Morgan notified the United States Environmental Protection Agency
( USEPA ) that it had failed to file certain reports required pursuant to
Section 313 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, and
regulations promulgated there under.  All
necessary reports were subsequently completed and filed with the USEPA.  At this point the Company does not know if
the USEPA will take enforcement action against Morgan, and the financial impact
of such an enforcement action, if any, cannot be estimated but could be
material.  

In
January 2006, EFP was notified by the Tennessee Department of Environment and
Conservation that a penalty was being assessed related to an inspection in
January 2005 that indicated it had failed to maintain proper records and to
file a report related to its air permit. 
The Company has immediately updated its records and confirmed the report
filing and is in discussions with TN DEC to settle these alleged
violations.  The proposed penalty is $6
and is not considered material.  

17.          Related Party
Transactions   

The Company is party to a
Management Services Agreement with Southwestern Holdings, Inc.
( Southwestern ), a corporation owned by Mr. Poindexter.  Pursuant to the Management Services
Agreement, Southwestern provides services to the Company, including those of
Mr. Poindexter.  The Company pays to Southwestern
a base fee of approximately $46 per month for these services, subject to annual
automatic increases based upon the consumer price index.  The Company may also pay a discretionary
annual bonus to Southwestern subject to certain limitations; none was paid in
2005 and 2004, and $200 was paid in 2003. The Company paid Southwestern $569,
$549 and $749 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, for all these services.  

Under the terms of a
Management Services Agreement between Morgan Olson and Southwestern Holdings,
Morgan Olson paid Southwestern Holdings $800 during the year ended December 31,
2003, for certain management and administrative services that was included in
selling general and administrative expenses. 
The agreement between Morgan Olson and Southwestern Holdings was
terminated effective with the acquisition of Morgan Olson by the Company.  

Effective July 18, 2004, Morgan acquired from a
partnership, of which Mr. Poindexter and Mr. Magee were partners, a certain
real property located in Georgia.  Morgan
paid approximately $2.2 million for the property, which was determined to be
the fair market value of the property. 
The property had been leased from the partnership since 1990 and is used
by Morgan for manufacturing truck bodies. 
 Morgan paid $0,
$174, and $286     in rent to the partnership in
2005, 2004 and 2003 pursuant to such lease. 

On November 7, 2003, Mr. Poindexter exercised the buy-out
option for certain equipment valued at $201 under lease to Specialty
Manufacturing by a third party. 
Specialty Manufacturing made interest only payments to Mr. Poindexter of
$10 during 2004, when Specialty Manufacturing purchased the equipment from Mr.
Poindexter for $201.  

18.          Discontinued
Operations   

Effective
May 28, 2004, Truck Accessories sold principally all of the assets of Midwest
Truck Aftermarket ( MTA ), its remaining distribution operation.  Truck Accessories realized cash proceeds of
approximately $1.3 million.  MTA s total
assets and liabilities totaled approximately $2,178 and $652, respectively, at
December 31, 2003.  The Company wrote off
related goodwill of $300, less income tax benefit of $125, as a loss on sale of
discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.  Truck Accessories disposed of principally all
of its distribution operations in 1999. 
MTA and three retail stores, of which one was disposed of in 2002,
comprised  

61  

the
remaining distribution operations.  MTA s
net sales were $4.1 million and $10.0 million for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003, respectively.  MTA s loss
before income tax benefit was $319 and $147 for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003, respectively.  MTA s loss
before income tax benefit included interest expense of $0 and $20 for the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to the borrowings of
MTA under the Revolving Credit Facility. 
The borrowings were repaid using the proceeds from the sale.  

During
2003, the Company received a settlement from a class action suit of
approximately $280 and proceeds from a surrendered life insurance policy of
approximately $86 that were related to operations sold in 1999.  Income before income taxes from these
transactions of $366 was included in loss from discontinued operations for the
year ended December 31, 2003.  

The
results of operations of all of the discontinued operations described above
have been reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial
statements for the periods presented.  In
addition, the net assets and liabilities which were disposed of have been
segregated within the consolidated balance sheet and $630 and $619 included in
other current liabilities as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

The loss from discontinued operations during the years ended December
31, 2004, and 2003, were as follows:  

19.          Subsequent Events   

Effective January 3, 2006 the company acquired
Kellerman Coach Inc., located in Amelia, Ohio. 
Kellerman Coach does business as Eagle Coach Company and the name was
changed to Eagle Specialty Vehicles Inc., ( Eagle Coach ) effective February
14, 2006.  Eagle Coach manufactures
funeral coaches and will be operated as part of Specialty Vehicles along with
Federal Coach.  The Company paid
approximately $7.5 million for Eagle Coach using funds from the proceeds of the
 8.75% Notes  offerings.  Eagle Coach s sales were approximately $15.0
million and unaudited pro forma operating income was approximately $0.5 million
for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

Effective March 17, 2006, Truck Accessories acquired
State Wide Aluminum, Inc., ( State Wide ) located in Elkhart, Indiana.  State Wide manufactures windows and doors
used in the manufacture of pick-up truck caps and is a supplier to Truck
Accessories.  Truck Accessories paid
approximately $6.4 million for State Wide using funds from the proceeds of  8.75% Notes  offerings and will operate the
business as its subsidiary.  State Wide s
sales were approximately $26.0 million and unaudited pro forma operating income
was approximately $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

Management is in the process of analyzing the
purchase price allocations for these acquisitions and will include its
preliminary assessment in its first quarter 2006 financial statements filed on
Form 10-Q.  

62  

20.          Selected
Quarterly Information (Unaudited)    

The Company s accounting records are maintained on the basis
of four 13 week quarters.  Shown below
are the selected unaudited quarterly data.    

63  

Item 9.            Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

None.   

Item 9A.         Controls and Procedures   

Pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Rule 13a 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
( Exchange Act ) promulgated there under, the Company s chief executive officer
and principal financial officer have evaluated the effectiveness of disclosure
controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report (the
 Evaluation Date ).  Based on such
evaluation, the Company s chief executive officer and principal financial
officer have concluded that disclosure controls and procedures were effective
as of the Evaluation Date to ensure that information required to be disclosed
in reports that are filed or submitted under the Exchange Act are recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the required time periods.  There have been no changes in internal
controls over financial reporting during the period covered by this report that
were identified in connection with the evaluation referred to above that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal
control over financial reporting.  

Item 9B.         Other Information   

None.  

PART III   

Item 10.         Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant   

The Company s directors and executive officers are
set forth below. All directors hold office until the next annual meeting or
until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The executive officers
are appointed by the Board of Directors annually and serve at the discretion of
the Board of Directors.  

Name   

Age   

Position   

John B. Poindexter  

61  

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

Stormy T.W. Hicks  

59  

Director, President and Chief Operating Officer  

Stephen P. Magee  

58  

Director  

William J. Bowen  

84  

Director  

Andrew E. Foskey  

39  

Vice President Business Development  

Robert S. Whatley  

54  

Vice President Finance, Secretary and Treasurer  

Larry T. Wolfe  

57  

Vice President Administration and Assistant Secretary  

John B. Poindexter has served
as Chairman of the Board and Directors since 1988 and Chief Executive Officer
since 1994.  He was President from
November 2002 until September 2005.  From
1985 through 1994, Mr. Poindexter was the majority limited partner of J.B.
Poindexter   Co., L.P., a privately held, long-term equity investment
and management firm formed by Mr. Poindexter in 1985. From 1983 through
1985, he was co-managing partner of KD/P Equities, a privately held equity
investment firm that he co-founded. From 1976 through 1983, Mr. Poindexter
worked for Smith Barney, Harris Upham   Co. While with Smith Barney,
he became a senior vice president for its Smith Barney Venture Corporation and
Smith Barney Capital Corporation affiliates and a partner in First Century
Partnership II, an investment fund managed by Smith Barney Capital.  

Stormy
T.W. Hicks has served as President and Chief Operating Officer and a member of
the Board since joining the Company in September 2005.  Following his retirement from Ford Motor
Company after a 20 year career, he served as the Vice President and General
Manager of a division of Eaton Aeroquip for two and one half years followed by
four years as President of the Fluid Handling Division of ITT Automotive.  

64  

Stephen P. Magee served as
Director since the Company was formed in 1988, as Treasurer from 1988 to 2001
and as Chief Financial Officer from 1994 to 2001. Mr. Magee also serves as
Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  

William J. Bowen retired in
1992 as the Chairman of the Board of Transco Energy Company, a diversified
energy company based in Houston, Texas. Mr. Bowen served as Chief
Executive Officer of Transco Energy from 1974 until his retirement from that
position in 1987. Mr. Bowen serves on the Company s Audit Committee.  

Andrew E. Foskey has served as
Vice President Business Development since July 2001. He is responsible for
the Company s acquisition efforts. He has 13 years of experience in
accounting, financial management, banking and investment banking. Before
joining J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc., Mr. Foskey served as
Chief Financial Officer of Consolidated Equipment Companies in Houston, Texas
and as Director of Corporate Finance for Comerica Bank in Detroit, Michigan.  

Robert S. Whatley has served as
Vice President since June 1994. He served as Chief Financial Officer of a
petrochemical trading company and Vice President of Finance and Treasurer of
Weatherford International, an energy services company. He is a Certified Public
Accountant and a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England
and Wales.  

Larry T. Wolfe has served as
Vice President of Administration since May of 1995. He previously served as
Vice-President of Human Resources and Administrative Services for Transco
Energy Company.  

Directors who are officers or
employees do not receive fees for serving as directors. The Company pays
$20,000 per year as director s fees to each outside director. Mr. Magee
receives $8,000 per year as Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors.  

Audit Committee   

The Audit Committee is a standing committee of the
Board of Directors. The primary purposes of the Committee is to assist the
Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibility relating to (1)
the integrity of our financial statements and financial reporting process and
our systems of internal accounting and financial controls; (2) the performance
of the internal audit services function; (3) the annual independent audit of
our financial statements, the engagement of the independent auditors and the
evaluation of the independent auditors  qualifications, independence and
performance; and (4) the compliance by the Company with legal and regulatory
requirements, including disclosure controls and procedures. The Committee also
reviews the Company s critical accounting policies, annual and quarterly
reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, and earnings releases before they are
published. The Committee has sole authority to engage, evaluate and replace the
independent auditor. The Committee also has the authority to retain special
legal, accounting and other consultants it deems necessary in the performance
of its duties. The Committee meets regularly with our management, independent
auditors and internal auditors to discuss internal controls and financial
reporting process and also meets regularly with the independent auditors and
internal auditors in private.  

The current members of the Audit Committee are
Messrs. Magee (chairman) and Bowen. Since the Company is not a publicly traded
company, on a listed exchange, the Board of Directors has not designated a
member of the Audit Committee as an  audit committee financial expert  who is
independent as the term is used in Item 7(d)(3)(iv) of Schedule 14A under the
Exchange Act.  

65  

Other significant persons   

Although not an executive officer, each of the
following persons is an officer of the referenced subsidiary or division
thereof and is an important contributor to operations:  

Name   

Age   

Position   

Nelson Byman  

58  

President of Specialty Manufacturing Group  

Bruce Freeman  

52  

President of Truck Accessories  

Bill Flint Jr.  

56  

President of EFP Corporation  

Norbert Markert  

45  

President of Morgan Corporation  

Nelson Byman became President
of MIC Group in June of 1998 and President of Specialty Manufacturing in
January 2001. Previously, Mr. Byman was Vice President/General
Manager of a domestic division of Weatherford/Enterra, a manufacturer of
oilfield related equipment.  

Bruce Freeman was named Senior
Vice President of Operations of J.B Poindexter   Co., Inc. on
November 15, 2001 and became President of Truck Accessories during
July 2002. Previously, Mr. Freeman spent 20 years with the
General Electric Company in a variety of operations and senior management
assignments followed by four years as President of AEC Sterling and later was a
Senior Vice President with NorthWestern Growth Corporation.  

Bill Flint was named President
of EFP Corporation on October 6, 2003. Previously Mr. Flint was
President and Chief Operation Officer of Flambeau Corporation, a plastics
manufacturing company.  

Norbert
Markert became the President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Corporation
in November 2005.  Previously he served
two years as the President of Autoliv of North America after having been the
President of Pilkington Automotive North America for four years.  

Code of Ethics   

The Board of Directors has
adopted a code of ethics that applies to its executive officers. Management
does not believe that a code of ethics is a substitute for an obligation to
always act in an honest and ethical fashion.  

66  

Item 11.             Executive Compensation   

The following table sets forth
certain information regarding the compensation paid to the Chief Executive
Officer and the Company s four most highly compensated executive officers
(including executive officers of the Company s subsidiaries) other than the
Chief Executive Officer, at the end of the last completed fiscal year
(collectively, the  named officers ).  

Summary Compensation Table   

(a)
Mr. Poindexter does not receive a salary from us. His services are provided to
us pursuant to a Management Services Agreement. See   Management services
agreement.   

The Company s incentive
compensation plan covering certain of its staff executive officers is similar
to the Subsidiary Incentive Plans described below. Additionally, during 1999,
the Company implemented a long-term compensation plan in order to provide the
opportunity for certain key management personnel to be further rewarded with
financial incentives for achieving financial objectives. Awards under the plan
vest over a three year period provided certain financial objectives have been
met. Amounts vested to date under this plan are approximately $121,000.
Mr. Poindexter is not eligible to participate in this plan.  

Mr. Poindexter is covered by the various
employee insurance programs provided by Morgan to its employees.  

Management Services
Agreement   

The Company entered into a
Management Services Agreement with Southwestern Holdings, Inc.
( Southwestern ) owned by Mr. Poindexter. Pursuant to the Management
Services Agreement, Southwestern provides services to the Company, including
those of Mr. Poindexter who serves as Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer. The Company paid to Southwestern approximately $569,000,
549,000 and $749,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
for the services of Mr. Poindexter. The annual fee is subject to annual
automatic increases based upon the consumer price index.  

67  

Subsidiary Incentive Plans   

The Company has adopted an
incentive compensation plan for members of upper management of each of the
subsidiaries ( Subsidiary Incentive Plans ) to provide for the payments of
annual bonuses based upon the attainment of performance-based goals.
Eligible employees are entitled to receive a bonus if the subsidiary attains or
surpasses a stated percentage of that subsidiary s earnings before interest and
taxes, with the amount of bonus being tied to the subsidiary s actual pre-tax
profits. Individual bonuses are then allocated among the eligible employees
based upon their individual achievement of stated performance objectives including
working capital performance objectives. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company
paid an aggregate $1,508,000, $2,223,000, and $527,000 to employees pursuant to
these plans.  

The subsidiaries also maintain certain other benefit
plans for respective officers and employees.  

Item 12.                                                         Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters  

The following table sets forth information regarding
beneficial ownership of the Company s common stock as of December 31, 2005 for
(i) each person who beneficially owns 5% or more of the Company s outstanding
common stock and (ii) all other executive officers and directors as a
group.  No class of the Company s
securities is registered pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange
Act.  

Directors, officers and 5% stockholders   

Title of Class   

Beneficial 
  number of shares   

Ownership 
  percent of class   

John
  Poindexter (director and named executive officer)  

Common Stock  

3,059  

100  

%  

All other
  directors and executive officers as a group (6 persons)  

Mr. Poindexter has sole voting and investment
power with respect to all shares of common stock that he beneficially owns and
is the only person who beneficially owns 5% or more of outstanding common
stock.  His address is
1100 Louisiana St., Suite 5400, Houston, Texas 77002.  

Item 13.         Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions   

Mr. John Poindexter owns
100% of  the Company s  outstanding capital stock. Mr. Stephen Magee
is a director. A corporation owned by Mr. Poindexter, of which
Mr. Magee is the president, is the general partner of a partnership that
leased certain real property in Georgia to Morgan.  The Company  paid $286,000 in rent to the partnership in 2003
and $174,000 in 2004.   The Company  believes that the rent paid by Morgan to Bartow
in the past was a competitive market rate for the location. Effective
July 18, 2004, Morgan acquired the real property located in Georgia.  Morgan paid approximately $2.2 million for
the property, which was determined to be the fair market value of the property.  

The Company  has
entered into a Management Services Agreement with Southwestern
Holdings, Inc., which is owned by Mr. Poindexter and for which Mr.
Magee, one of  the Company s  directors,
serves as President. Pursuant to the Management Services Agreement,
Southwestern Holdings, Inc. provides services to  the Company , including those of Mr. Poindexter.  The
Company  pays to Southwestern
Holdings, Inc. approximately $46,000 per month for these services, subject
to annual automatic increases based upon the consumer price index.  The
Company  may pay a discretionary annual bonus
to Southwestern Holdings, Inc. or raise the annual increases above normal
adjustments subject to certain limitations. For all services,  the
Company  paid Southwestern
Holdings, Inc. $749,000 in 2003, $549,000 in 2004 and $569,000 in 2005. In
addition to the base consulting fee, Mr. Poindexter is covered under
Morgan s employee insurance plan and is reimbursed for travel and other
miscellaneous expenses.   

68  

In connection with the Morgan
Olson contribution in March 2004, Mr. Poindexter contributed all of
his shares of Morgan Olson to the Company. 
Mr. Poindexter previously owned 100% of Morgan Olson. Effective
with his acquisition of Morgan Olson,  the Company , through Morgan, agreed
to provide certain management services to Morgan Olson pursuant to a Management
Services Agreement between Morgan Olson and  the Company .  The Company  charged Morgan Olson management fees of approximately $362,000 and
$160,000 during 2003 and 2004, respectively. 
Morgan purchased certain materials for and provided the services of
certain key personnel to Morgan Olson for which it was reimbursed at cost.
Morgan charged Morgan Olson approximately $956,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2003 and approximately $22,000 for the period January 1,
2004 through March 15, 2004. As of December 31, 2003, Morgan Olson
owed  the Company  approximately
$272,000, all of which was paid subsequently. In addition, at December 31,
2003, Morgan Olson owed approximately $142,000 to Southwestern
Holdings, Inc.  

Under the terms of a Management
Services Agreement between Morgan Olson and Southwestern Holdings, Morgan Olson
paid Southwestern Holdings $800,000 during the year ended December 31, 2003,
for certain management and administrative services that was included in
selling, general and administrative expenses. 
The agreement between Morgan Olson and Southwestern Holdings was terminated
effective with the acquisition of Morgan Olson by the Company.  

On November 7, 2003,
Mr. Poindexter exercised the buy-out option for certain equipment
valued at $201,000 under lease to Specialty Manufacturing by a third party.
Specialty Manufacturing made interest only payments to Mr. Poindexter of
$10,200 during 2004, when Specialty Manufacturing purchased the equipment from
Mr. Poindexter for $201,000.  

Mr. Magee provided  the Company  consulting
services in 2003, 2004 and 2005.  The Company  paid him $3,600 in 2003, $44,400 in 2004 and $180,955 in 2005 for those
services and reimbursements for related business expenses.  

Mr. Poindexter previously
held $4.5 million in aggregate principal amount of the 12.5% senior
secured notes due 2007 and Mr. Magee previously held $0.1 million in
aggregate principal amount of theses senior secured notes.  The Company  redeemed
the notes with the proceeds of  the  initial
offering of $125 million in aggregate principal amount of 8.75% Notes, and
paid them 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest.  

Item 14.         Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

Audit Fees.     For the year ending December 31, 2005, the Company incurred aggregate
professional fees from Crowe Chizek and Company LLC ( CCC ) in the amount of
(i) $261,000 for the audit of the Company s annual financial statements and
review of financial statements included in the Company s Form 10-Qs, (ii)
$140,000 for assurance and related services, including accounting advice
related to debt offerings in 2005 and (iii) $20,000 for the audit of the
Company s 401(k) Defined Contribution Plan for the year ended December 31,
2004. These fees were pre-approved by the Audit Committee under the procedures
described below.  

Pre-Approval Procedures   

The
Company s Audit Committee is responsible for the engagement of the independent
auditors and for approving, in advance, all auditing services and permitted
non-audit services to be provided by the independent auditors. The Audit
Committee maintains a policy for the engagement of independent auditors that is
intended to maintain the independence from the Company of the independent
auditors. In adopting this policy, the Company s Audit Committee considered the
various services that independent auditors have historically performed or may
be needed to perform in the future for the Company. Under this policy, which is
subject to review and re-adoption at least annually by the Audit Committee:   

The Audit Committee approves the performance by the independent
auditors of audit-related services, subject to restrictions in certain cases,
based on the Audit Committee s determination that this would not be likely to
impair the independence of the independent auditors from the Company;  

69  

The Company s management must obtain the specific prior approval of the
Company s Audit Committee for each engagement of the independent auditors to
perform any auditing or permitted non-audit services; provided however, that
specific prior approval by the Company s Audit Committee is not required for
any auditing services that are within the scope of a pre-approved engagement
and are consistent with other services provided by the auditor in the past; and
provided further that specific prior approval is not required for permitted
non-audit services that:  

(i)                                          in the aggregate do not total more than $25,000;  

(ii)                                       were not recognized by the Company at the time of the engagement to be
non-audit services; and  

(iii)                                    are promptly brought to the attention of the Company s Audit Committee
and approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with this policy prior to the
completion of the audit.  

The performance by the independent auditors of certain types of
services (bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or
financial statements of the Company; financial information systems design and
implementation; appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or
contribution-in-kind reports; actuarial services; internal audit outsourcing
services; management functions or human resources; broker or dealer, or
investment adviser or investment banking services; legal services and expert
services unrelated to the audit; and any other service that the applicable
federal oversight regulatory authority determines, by regulation, is
impermissible) is prohibited due to the likelihood that their independence
would be impaired.  

Any approval required under
this policy must be given by the Company s Audit Committee, by the chairman of
the Audit Committee in office at the time, or by any other Audit Committee member
to whom the Audit Committee has delegated that authority. The Company s Audit
Committee will not delegate its responsibilities to approve services performed
by the independent auditors to any member of management.  

The standard applied by the
Company s Audit Committee in determining whether to grant approval of an
engagement of the independent auditors is whether the services to be performed,
the compensation to be paid for such services and other related factors are
consistent with the independent auditor s independence under guidelines of the
Securities and Exchange Commission and applicable professional standards.
Relevant considerations include, but are not limited to, whether the work
product is likely to be subject to, or implicated in, audit procedures during
the audit of the Company s financial statements; whether the independent
auditors would be functioning in the role of management or in an advocacy role;
whether performance of the service by the independent auditors would enhance
the Company s ability to manage or control risk or improve audit quality;
whether performance of the service by the independent auditors would increase
efficiency because of their familiarity with the Company s business, personnel,
culture, systems, risk profile and other factors; and whether the amount of
fees involved, or the proportion of the total fees payable to the independent
auditors in the period that is for tax and other non-audit services, would tend
to reduce the ability of the independent auditors to exercise independent
judgment in performing the audit.  

70  

Part IV   

Item 15.         Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
and Reports on Form 10-K   

1.             Financial Statements:  

The following
financial statements are included within the text of this report  

2.             Financial Statement Schedules:  

Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts disclosures have been incorporated in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.  

3.             Exhibits  

The following exhibits
are included with this report  

71  

4.6(5)  

Registration Rights
  Agreement dated May 17, 2004, among J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc., certain
  guarantors listed therein and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.  

4.7(5)  

Registration Rights
  Agreement dated January 27, 2005, among J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.,
  certain guarantors listed therein and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.  

4.8*  

Second Supplemental
  Indenture dated June 10, 2005, to the Indenture dated as of March 15, 2004,
  with respect to J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. s 8.75% Senior Notes due
  2014, among J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc., the subsidiary guarantors named
  therein and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee.  

4.9*  

Third Supplemental
  Indenture dated January 9, 2006, to the Indenture dated as of March 15, 2004,
  with respect to J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. s 8.75% Senior Notes due
  2014, among J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc., the subsidiary guarantors named
  therein and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee.  

10.1(4)  

Loan and Security
  Agreement dated March 15, 2004, among J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.,
  certain subsidiaries thereof, certain other loan parties signatories thereto
  and LaSalle Bank National Association, a national banking association, for
  itself, as a lender, and as the agent for the lenders.  

10.2(4)  

First Amendment to Loan
  and Security Agreement dated May 13, 2004, among J.B. Poindexter   Co.,
  Inc., certain subsidiaries thereof, certain other loan parties signatories
  thereto and LaSalle Bank National Association, a national banking
  association, for itself, as a lender, and as the agent for the lenders.  

10.3(5)  

Limited Consent and Second
  Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement dated November 3, 2004, among J.B.
  Poindexter   Co., Inc., certain subsidiaries thereof, certain other loan
  parties signatories thereto and LaSalle Bank National Association, a national
  banking association, for itself, as a lender, and as the agent for the
  lenders.  

10.4(5)  

Third Amendment to Loan
  and Security Agreement dated January 20, 2005, among J.B. Poindexter  
  Co., Inc., certain subsidiaries thereof, certain other loan parties
  signatories thereto and LaSalle Bank National Association, a national banking
  association, for itself, as a lender, and as the agent for the lenders.  

10.5(4)  

Sales Agreement dated
  October 1, 2004 between E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and Morgan
  Trailer Mfg. Co.  

10.6(4)  

Sales Agreement dated
  October 1, 2004 between E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and Truck
  Accessories Group, Inc.  

#   

10.7 (1)  

Form of Incentive Plan for
  certain employees of the subsidiaries of J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.  

#   

10.8 (1)  

Morgan Trailer Mfg. Co.
  Long-Term Management Equity Appreciation Program dated May 10, 1990.  

#   

10.9(5)  

Management Services
  Agreement dated as of May 23, 1994, between J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.
  and Southwestern Holdings, Inc.  

72  

#   

10.10 (3)  

Management Services
  Agreement effective as of December 19, 2003, between J.B. Poindexter  
  Co., Inc., Morgan Trailer Mfg. Co., and Morgan Olson.  

10.11 (6)  

Fourth Amendment to Loan
  and Security Agreement dated April 25, 2005, among J.B. Poindexter   Co.,
  Inc., certain subsidiaries thereof, certain other loan parties signatories
  thereto and LaSalle Bank National Association, a national banking
  association, for itself, as a lender, and as the agent for the lenders.  

*  

12  

Computation of Ratio of
  Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

*  

21  

List of subsidiaries of
  J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.  

*  

31.1  

Rule 13(a)-14(a)/15d-14(a)
  Certificate of the Chief Executive Officer.  

*  

31.2  

Rule 13(a)-14(a)/15d-14(a)
  Certificate of the Chief Financial Officer  

**  

32.1  

Section 1350 Certificate
  of the Chief Executive Officer  

**  

32.2  

Section 1350 Certificate of the Chief Financial
  Officer  

*                    Filed
herewith. 

  **             Furnished
herewith. 

  #                    Management
contracts or compensatory plans. 

  (1)             Incorporated
by reference to J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. s Registration Statement on
Form S-1 (No. 33-75154) as filed with the SEC on February 10, 1994 

  (2)             Incorporated
by reference to J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1994, as filed with the SEC on March
31, 1995. 

  (3)             Incorporated
by reference to J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2003, as filed with the SEC on
November 14, 2003. 

  (4)             Incorporated
by reference to J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. s Registration Statement on
Form S-4 (No. 333-123598) as filed with the SEC on March 25, 2005. 

  (5)             Incorporated
by reference to J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. s Registration Statement as
amended on Form S-4A (No. 333-123598) as filed with the SEC on April 7, 2005. 

  (6)             Incorporated
by reference to J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, as filed with the SEC on
November 14, 2005. 

73  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements
of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.  

J.B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC.   

Date: March 29, 2006  

By  

/s/ John B. Poindexter   

John B. Poindexter,
  Chairman of the Board,  

Chief Executive Officer  

(Principal Executive
  Officer)  

Pursuant to the requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.  

Date: March 29, 2006  

By  

/s/ John B. Poindexter   

John B. Poindexter,
  Chairman of the Board,  

Chief Executive Officer  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

Date: March 29, 2006  

By  

/s/ Stephen P. Magee   

Stephen P. Magee, Director  

Date: March 29, 2006  

By  

/s/ William J. Bowen  

William J. Bowen, Director  

Date: March 29, 2006  

By  

/s/ Stormy T.W. Hicks  

Stormy T.W. Hicks, President,
  Chief Operating  

Officer and Director  

Date: March 29, 2006  

By  

/s/ Robert S. Whatley  

Robert S. Whatley, Vice
  President Finance,  

Secretary and Treasurer  

(Principal Financial and
  Accounting Officer)  

74  

<EX-4.8>
 2
 a06-2525_1ex4d8.htm
 INSTRUMENTS DEFINING THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS, INCLUDING INDENTURES

Exhibit 4.8   

J.
B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC.   

As Issuer   

THE
SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS NAMED HEREIN   

As Guarantors   

WILMINGTON
TRUST COMPANY   

As Trustee   

SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE   

Dated
as of June 10, 2005   

to  

INDENTURE   

Dated as
of March 15, 2004   

8 3 / 4 
% Senior Notes Due 2004   

SECOND
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE,   dated as of June 10, 2005,
(herein called this   Supplemental Indenture  ) among   J.B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC.  ,
a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (herein called the   Company  ), having its principal office at
1100 Louisiana Street, Suite 5400, Houston, Texas  77002, each of   MORGAN TRAILER MFG. CO.,   a New Jersey corporation (  Morgan  ),
  TRUCK ACCESSORIES GROUP, INC., formerly
known as Leer, Inc.  , a Delaware corporation (  TAG  ),   LOWY GROUP, INC.,   a Delaware
corporation (  Lowy  ),   EFP CORPORATION  ,
a Delaware corporation (  EFP  ),   MAGNETIC
INSTRUMENTS CORP.  , a Delaware corporation (  MIC  ),   RAIDER INDUSTRIES, INC.  , a
Saskatchewan corporation (  Raider  ),   SWK
HOLDINGS, INC., formerly known as KWS Manufacturing Company, Inc.  ,     a Texas corporation (  SWK  ),   UNIVERSAL BRIXIUS, INC.  , a Wisconsin
corporation (  Brixius  ),   MORGAN
TRAILER FINANCIAL CORPORATION  , a Nevada corporation (  MTFC  ),
  MORGAN TRAILER FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, L.P.  ,
a Texas limited partnership (  MTFMLP  ),   MORGAN OLSON
CORPORATION  , a Delaware corporation ( MOC ), and   COMMERCIAL BABCOCK INC  ., an Ontario corporation (  CB  ),
(Morgan, TAG, Lowy, EFP, MIC, Raider, SWK, Brixius, MTFC, MTFMLP, MOC and CB
are collectively called the  Subsidiary Guarantors ), and   FEDERAL
COACH LLC.  , a limited liability company organized under the laws of the
state of Delaware (the  Additional Guarantor ), and   WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY  , a Delaware banking corporation,
having its principal corporate trust office at Rodney Square North, 1100 North
Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware, as Trustee (herein called the   Trustee  ) 

R E
C I T A L   

WHEREAS  ,
the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee are parties to that
certain Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2004, as amended by the First
Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 14, 2004 (the   Indenture  ),
governing the Company s 8  % Senior Notes due 2014 (the   Securities  )
issued thereunder; 

WHEREAS  ,
Section 9.01(4) of the Indenture provides that, without the consent
of any Holders, the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, and the Trustee, at any
time and from time to time, may supplement the Indenture, in form satisfactory
to the Trustee, for the purpose of allowing the Additional Guarantor to become
a Subsidiary Guarantor of the obligations of the Company and those of each
other Subsidiary Guarantor under the Indenture and the Securities;  provided 
such action pursuant to Section 9.01 shall not adversely affect the
interests of the Holders in any material respect; 

WHEREAS  ,
the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that making the Additional
Guarantor a Subsidiary Guarantor of the Indenture does not adversely affect the
interests of the Holders in any material respect; 

WHEREAS  ,
the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors pursuant to the foregoing authority,
propose in and by this Supplemental Indenture to amend and supplement the
Indenture as provided in this Supplemental Indenture, and requests the Trustee
to enter into this Supplemental Indenture; and 

1  

WHEREAS  ,
all things necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of
the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the Additional Guarantor and the
Trustee and a valid amendment of and supplement to the Indenture have been
done; 

NOW,
THEREFORE,   for and in consideration of the premises, it is
mutually covenanted and agreed for the equal and proportionate benefit of all
Holders of the Securities: 

SECTION 1.                                 Definitions .
All terms used in this Supplemental Indenture which are not defined in this
Supplemental Indenture and which are defined in the Indenture shall have the
meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. 

SECTION 2.                                 Agreement
to Guarantee . The Additional Guarantor hereby agrees and confirms that, by
its execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture, it will be
deemed to be a  Guarantor  for all purposes of the obligations of the Company
and those of each other Subsidiary Guarantor under the Indenture and the
Securities, and shall have all the obligations of a Subsidiary Guarantor
hereunder with the same effect as if it had been named a Subsidiary Guarantor
in the Indenture and the Securities. The Additional Guarantor hereby ratifies,
as of the date hereof, and agrees to be bound by, all of the terms, provisions
and conditions in the Indenture and the Securities applicable to a Subsidiary
Guarantor. 

SECTION 3.                                 Incorporation
of Supplemental Indenture . All provisions of this Supplemental Indenture
shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture,
and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture,
shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. 

SECTION 4.                                 Headings .
The Article and Section headings of this Supplemental Indenture are
for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. 

SECTION 5.                                 Counterparts .
This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts,
each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 

SECTION 6.                                 Conflict
with Trust Indenture Act . If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or
conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required under
such Act to be part of and govern this Supplemental Indenture, the latter
provision shall control. If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture
modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be
so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this
Supplemental Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be. 

SECTION 7.                                 Successors
and Assigns . All covenants and agreements in this Supplemental Indenture by
the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor shall bind its respective successors
and assigns, whether so expressed or not. 

SECTION 8.                                 Separability
Clause . In case any provisions in this Supplemental Indenture shall be
invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of
the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 

2  

SECTION 9.                                 Benefits
of Supplemental Indenture . Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, express
or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, and their
successors hereunder and the Holders of Securities, any benefit or any legal or
equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture. 

SECTION 10.                           Governing
Law . This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New York.  

THE REMAINDER OF THIS
PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK   

3  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  ,
the parties have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, and
their respective corporate seals to be hereunder affixed and attested, all as
of the date and year first above written. 

Attest:  

J. B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

MORGAN TRAILER MFG. CO.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

TRUCK ACCESSORIES GROUP, INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

EFP CORPORATION   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

MAGNETIC INSTRUMENTS CORP.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

4  

Attest:  

LOWY GROUP, INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

RAIDER INDUSTRIES, INC.   

a Saskatchewan corporation  

By:  

Robert S Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

SWK HOLDINGS, INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

UNIVERSAL BRIXIUS, INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

MORGAN TRAILER FINANCIAL   

CORPORATION   

Attest:  

By:  

Thomas Daly  

President  

5  

MORGAN TRAILER FINANCIAL   

MANAGEMENT, L.P.   

Attest:  

By:   

Morgan Trailer Mfg. Co., its general   

partner   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

MORGAN OLSON CORPORATION   

Attest:  

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

COMMERCIAL BABCOCK INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

FEDERAL COACH LLC   

Attest:  

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

Attest:  

WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

6  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of J. B. Poindexter  
Co., Inc., a Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in
and which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name
thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me
duly sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Morgan Trailer Mfg.
Co., a New Jersey corporation, one of the corporations described in and which
executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

7  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Truck Accessories Group, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in and which executed
the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by authority of
the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Lowy Group, Inc., a
Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in and which executed
the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by authority of
the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

8  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of EFP Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in and which executed
the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by authority of
the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Magnetic Instruments
Corp., a Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in and which
executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

9  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of SWK Holdings, Inc.,
a Texas corporation, formerly known as KWS Manufacturing Company, Inc.,
one of the corporations described in and which executed the foregoing
instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by authority of the Board of
Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Raider Industries Inc.,
a corporation formed in Saskatchewan, Canada, one of the corporations described
in and which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name
thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

10  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Universal Brixius, Inc.,
a Wisconsin corporation, one of the corporations described in and which
executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Morgan Trailer Mfg. Co.,
a New Jersey corporation and the general partner of Morgan Trailer Financial
Management, L.P., a Texas limited partnership, one of the legal entities
described in and which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed
his name thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of the Morgan Trailer
Mfg. Co. as General Partner of Morgan Trailer Financial Management, L.P.  

Notary Public  

11  

STATE OF CALIFORNIA   

ss.   

COUNTY OF                              

On the
        day of December 2004, before me
personally came Thomas Daly, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did
depose and say that he is President of Morgan Trailer Financial Management
Corporation, a Nevada corporation, one of the corporations described in and
which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Morgan Olson
Corporation, a Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in and
which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

12  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of June 2005,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Commercial Babcock, Inc.,
a corporation formed in Ontario, Canada, one of the corporations described in
and which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name
thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF DELAWARE   

ss.   

COUNTY OF                              

On the       
day of June 2005, before me personally came Robert S. Whatley to me known,
who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of
Federal Coach LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, one of the
corporations described in and which executed the foregoing instrument, and that
he signed his name thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said
limited liability company.  

Notary Public  

13  

STATE OF DELAWARE   

ss.   

COUNTY OF

On the       
day of December 2004, before me personally came
                                      
to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that [he   she] is                                                                    
of Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee described in and which executed the
foregoing instrument, and that [he   she] signed [his   her] name thereto by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

14  

</EX-4.8>

<EX-4.9>
 3
 a06-2525_1ex4d9.htm
 INSTRUMENTS DEFINING THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS, INCLUDING INDENTURES

Exhibit 4.9   

J.
B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC.   

As Issuer   

THE
SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS NAMED HEREIN   

As Guarantors   

WILMINGTON
TRUST COMPANY   

As Trustee   

THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE   

Dated
as of January 9 , 2006   

to  

INDENTURE   

Dated as
of March 15, 2004   

8 3 / 4  % Senior Notes Due 2014   

THIRD
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE,   dated as of January 9, 2006,
(herein called this   Supplemental Indenture  ) among   J.B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC.  ,
a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (herein called the   Company  ), having its principal office at
1100 Louisiana Street, Suite 5400, Houston, Texas  77002, each of   MORGAN CORPORATION,   formerly
known as Morgan Trailer Mfg. Co.)     a
New Jersey corporation (  Morgan  ),   TRUCK
ACCESSORIES GROUP, INC., formerly known as Leer, Inc.  , a
Delaware corporation (  TAG  ),   LOWY
GROUP, INC.,   a Delaware corporation (  Lowy  ),   EFP CORPORATION  , a Delaware corporation (  EFP  ),
MIC GROUP, INC., formerly known as Magnetic Instruments Corp., a Delaware
corporation (  MIC  ),   RAIDER INDUSTRIES, INC.  ,
a Saskatchewan corporation (  Raider  ),   SWK
HOLDINGS, INC., formerly known as KWS Manufacturing Company, Inc.  ,     a Texas corporation (  SWK  ),   UNIVERSAL BRIXIUS, INC.  , a Wisconsin
corporation (  Brixius  ),   MORGAN
TRAILER FINANCIAL CORPORATION  , a Nevada corporation (  MTFC  ),
  MORGAN TRAILER FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, L.P.  ,
a Texas limited partnership (  MTFMLP  ),   MORGAN OLSON
CORPORATION  , a Delaware corporation ( MOC ),   COMMERCIAL
BABCOCK INC  ., an Ontario corporation (  CB  ),    FEDERAL COACH LLC  .,
a limited liability company organized under the laws of the state of Delaware ( FEDERAL ),
(Morgan, TAG, Lowy, EFP, MIC, Raider, SWK, Brixius, MTFC, MTFMLP, MOC, CB and
Federal are collectively called the  Subsidiary Guarantors ), and   KELLERMAN COACH CO., INC.,   also known as Eagle Coach  .  , an Ohio corporation (the  Additional Guarantor ), and   WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY  , a Delaware
banking corporation, having its principal corporate trust office at Rodney
Square North, 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware, as Trustee
(herein called the   Trustee  ) 

R E
C I T A L   

WHEREAS  ,
the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee are parties to that
certain Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2004, as amended by the First
Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 14, 2004 and the Second
Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 10, 2005, (the   Indenture  )
governing the Company s 8  % Senior Notes due 2014 (the   Securities  )
issued thereunder; 

WHEREAS  ,
Section 9.01(4) of the Indenture provides that, without the consent
of any Holders, the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, and the Trustee, at any
time and from time to time, may supplement the Indenture, in form satisfactory
to the Trustee, for the purpose of allowing the Additional Guarantor to become
a Subsidiary Guarantor of the obligations of the Company and those of each
other Subsidiary Guarantor under the Indenture and the Securities;  provided 
such action pursuant to Section 9.01 shall not adversely affect the
interests of the Holders in any material respect; 

WHEREAS  ,
the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that making the Additional
Guarantor a Subsidiary Guarantor of the Indenture does not adversely affect the
interests of the Holders in any material respect; 

WHEREAS  ,
the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors pursuant to the foregoing authority,
propose in and by this Supplemental Indenture to amend and supplement the
Indenture 

1  

as provided in
this Supplemental Indenture, and requests the Trustee to enter into this
Supplemental Indenture; and  

WHEREAS  ,
all things necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of
the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the Additional Guarantor and the
Trustee and a valid amendment of and supplement to the Indenture have been
done; 

NOW,
THEREFORE,   for and in consideration of the premises, it is
mutually covenanted and agreed for the equal and proportionate benefit of all
Holders of the Securities: 

SECTION 1.                                 Definitions .
All terms used in this Supplemental Indenture which are not defined in this
Supplemental Indenture and which are defined in the Indenture shall have the
meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. 

SECTION 2.                                 Agreement
to Guarantee . The Additional Guarantor hereby agrees and confirms that, by
its execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture, it will be
deemed to be a  Guarantor  for all purposes of the obligations of the Company
and those of each other Subsidiary Guarantor under the Indenture and the
Securities, and shall have all the obligations of a Subsidiary Guarantor
hereunder with the same effect as if it had been named a Subsidiary Guarantor
in the Indenture and the Securities. The Additional Guarantor hereby ratifies,
as of the date hereof, and agrees to be bound by, all of the terms, provisions
and conditions in the Indenture and the Securities applicable to a Subsidiary
Guarantor. 

SECTION 3.                                 Incorporation
of Supplemental Indenture . All provisions of this Supplemental Indenture
shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture,
and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture,
shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. 

SECTION 4.                                 Headings .
The Article and Section headings of this Supplemental Indenture are
for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. 

SECTION 5.                                 Counterparts .
This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts,
each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 

SECTION 6.                                 Conflict
with Trust Indenture Act . If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or
conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required under
such Act to be part of and govern this Supplemental Indenture, the latter
provision shall control. If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture
modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be
so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this
Supplemental Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be. 

SECTION 7.                                 Successors
and Assigns . All covenants and agreements in this Supplemental Indenture by
the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor shall bind its respective successors
and assigns, whether so expressed or not. 

2  

SECTION 8.                                 Separability
Clause . In case any provisions in this Supplemental Indenture shall be
invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of
the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 

SECTION 9.                                 Benefits
of Supplemental Indenture . Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, express
or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, and their
successors hereunder and the Holders of Securities, any benefit or any legal or
equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture. 

SECTION 10.                           Governing
Law . This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New York.  

THE REMAINDER OF THIS
PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK   

3  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  ,
the parties have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, and
their respective corporate seals to be hereunder affixed and attested, all as
of the date and year first above written. 

Attest:  

J. B. POINDEXTER   CO., INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

MORGAN CORPORATION.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

TRUCK ACCESSORIES GROUP, INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

EFP CORPORATION   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

MIC GROUP, INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

4  

Attest:  

LOWY GROUP, INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

RAIDER INDUSTRIES, INC.   

Attest:  

a Saskatchewan corporation  

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

SWK HOLDINGS, INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

UNIVERSAL BRIXIUS, INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

MORGAN TRAILER FINANCIAL   

CORPORATION   

Attest:  

By:  

Thomas Daly  

President  

5  

MORGAN TRAILER FINANCIAL   

MANAGEMENT, L.P.   

Attest:  

By:   

Morgan Trailer Mfg. Co., its general   

partner   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

MORGAN OLSON CORPORATION   

Attest:  

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

Attest:  

COMMERCIAL BABCOCK INC.   

By:  

Robert S. Whatley  

Vice President  

FEDERAL COACH LLC   

Attest:  

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

Attest:  

WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

6  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 9th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of J. B. Poindexter  
Co., Inc., a Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in
and which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name
thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 9th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me
duly sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Morgan Trailer Mfg.
Co., a New Jersey corporation, one of the corporations described in and which
executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by authority
of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

7  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 9th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Truck Accessories Group, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in and which executed
the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by authority of
the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 9th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Lowy Group, Inc., a
Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in and which executed
the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by authority of
the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

8  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 9th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of EFP Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in and which executed
the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by authority of
the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 9th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Magnetic Instruments
Corp., a Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in and which
executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

9  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 9th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of SWK Holdings, Inc.,
a Texas corporation, formerly known as KWS Manufacturing Company, Inc.,
one of the corporations described in and which executed the foregoing
instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by authority of the Board of
Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 9th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Raider Industries Inc.,
a corporation formed in Saskatchewan, Canada, one of the corporations described
in and which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name
thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

10  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 9th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Universal Brixius, Inc.,
a Wisconsin corporation, one of the corporations described in and which
executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 9th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Morgan Trailer Mfg. Co.,
a New Jersey corporation and the general partner of Morgan Trailer Financial
Management, L.P., a Texas limited partnership, one of the legal entities
described in and which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed
his name thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of the Morgan Trailer
Mfg. Co. as General Partner of Morgan Trailer Financial Management, L.P.  

Notary Public  

11  

STATE OF CALIFORNIA   

ss.   

COUNTY OF

On the
        day of January 2006, before me
personally came Thomas Daly, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did
depose and say that he is President of Morgan Trailer Financial Management
Corporation, a Nevada corporation, one of the corporations described in and
which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 9th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Morgan Olson
Corporation, a Delaware corporation, one of the corporations described in and
which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name thereto by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

12  

STATE OF TEXAS   

ss.   

COUNTY OF HARRIS   

On the 6th day of January 2006,
before me personally came Robert S. Whatley, to me known, who, being by me duly
sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice President of Commercial Babcock, Inc.,
a corporation formed in Ontario, Canada, one of the corporations described in
and which executed the foregoing instrument, and that he signed his name
thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

STATE OF DELAWARE   

ss.   

COUNTY OF

On the       
day of January 2006, before me personally came Robert S. Whatley to me
known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he is Vice
President of Federal Coach LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, one of
the corporations described in and which executed the foregoing instrument, and
that he signed his name thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said
limited liability company.  

Notary Public  

13  

STATE OF DELAWARE   

ss.   

COUNTY OF

On the       day of January 2006,
before me personally came
                                      
to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that [he   she] is                                                       of
Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee described in and which executed the
foregoing instrument, and that [he   she] signed [his   her] name thereto by
authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.  

Notary Public  

14  

</EX-4.9>

<EX-12>
 4
 a06-2525_1ex12.htm
 STATEMENTS REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

Exhibit
12   

J.B. POINDEXTER AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  COMPUTATION OF
RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES       
  (in thousands, except
ratios) 

(1)             Earnings were insufficient to cover fixed
charges by $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 5
 a06-2525_1ex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit 21   

Subsidiaries
of 
     J.B.
POINDEXTER   CO., INC.   

All subsidiaries are owned
100%, either directly or indirectly, by J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.  

(1)                  EFP Corporation, a Delaware corporation,
which also operates under the name Engineered Foam Plastics. 

(2)                  Lowy Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation. 

(3)                  Magnetic Instruments Corp., a Delaware
corporation, which  also operates under
the name MIC Group;  in addition,
Magnetic Instruments Corp. has the following subsidiaries: 

(a)        SWK
Holdings, Inc. a Texas corporation; and  

(b)        Universal
Brixius, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation.  

(4)                  Morgan Trailer Mfg. Co., a New Jersey
corporation, which also operates under the name Morgan Corporation;  in addition, 
Morgan Trailer Mfg. Co. has the following subsidiaries: 

(a)                           Morgan Trailer Financial Corporation, a Nevada corporation; and 

(b)                          Morgan Trailer Financial Management, L.P., a Texas Limited partnership. 

(5)                  Truck Accessories Group, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, f/k/a Leer, Inc., f/k/a Leer Holdings Inc., which also operates
under the following names: 

(a)                           TAG; 

(b)                          20th Century Fiberglass; 

(c)                           Century Fiberglass; 

(d)                          Century; 

(e)                           Leer; 

(f)
       Leer Corporate;  

(g)                          Leer East; 

(h)                          Leer Midwest; 

(i)        Leer
Retail;  

(j)                            Leer Southeast; 

(k)                           Leer Specialty Products; 

(l)                            Leer Truck Accessory Centers; 

(m)                        Leer West; 

(n)                          Mid West Truck Accessories; and 

(o)                          Pace Edwards; and 

in addition, Raider Industries, Inc., a Saskatchewan, Canada
corporation, is a subsidiary of Truck Accessories Group, Inc. and operates
under the following names:  

(a)                           Lo Rider; 

(b)                          Raider; and 

(c)                           Raider US 

in addition, Commercial Babcock Inc  .  , an Ontario,
Canada corporation, is a subsidiary of Raider Industries, Inc., and operates as
a division of Morgan Trailer Mfg. Co.  

(6)                  Morgan Olson Corporation, f/k/a MS Truck Body
Corp., a Delaware corporation. 

(7)                  Federal Coach LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company. 

(8)                  Eagle Specialty Vehicles, Inc., an Ohio
corporation. 

(9)                  State Wide Aluminum, Inc., an Indiana corporation. 

</EX-21>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 a06-2525_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1   

CERTIFICATION  

I,
John B. Poindexter, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer of J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc., certify that:  

1.                                          I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K
of J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc. and subsidiaries as of and for the
year ended December 31, 2005; 

2.                                          Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3.                                          Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4.                                          The registrant s other certifying officer and
I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
for the registrant and have: 

a.                                          designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

b.                                         evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report, based on such evaluation; and 

c.                                          disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s control over financial reporting;
and 

5.                                          The registrant s other certifying officer and
I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
function): 

a.                                          all significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b.                                         any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal controls over financial reporting. 

Date:
  March 29, 2006  

By  

/s/John
  B. Poindexter  

John
  B. Poindexter, Chairman of the Board 
  and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 a06-2525_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2   

CERTIFICATION  

I,
Robert S. Whatley, Vice President Finance of J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.,
certify that:  

1.                                          I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K
of J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.; 

2.                                          Based on my knowledge, this report does not
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3.                                          Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4.                                          The registrant s other certifying officer and
I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
for the registrant and have: 

a.                                          designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared; 

b.                                         evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report, based on such evaluation; and 

c.                                          disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s control over financial reporting;
and 

5.                                          The registrant s other certifying officer and
I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
function): 

a.                                          all significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b.                                         any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal controls over financial reporting. 

Date:
  March 29, 2006  

By  

/s/
  Robert S. Whatley  

Robert
  S. Whatley, Vice President Finance  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 a06-2525_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1   

SECTION 906
CERTIFICATION CEO  

In
connection with the Annual Report of J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.
(the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005
as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ),
I, John B. Poindexter, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

To
the best of my knowledge, after reasonable investigation:  

(1)                                     The Report fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)                                     The information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result
of operations of the Company. 

Date:
  March 29, 2006  

By  

/s/
  John B. Poindexter  

John
  B. Poindexter, Chairman of the Board, 
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

The
foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and is not being filed as part of the
Report or as a separate disclosure document.  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or
other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the
signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this
written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 a06-2525_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.2   

SECTION 906
CERTIFICATION CFO  

In
connection with the Annual Report of J.B. Poindexter   Co., Inc.
(the Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2005
as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ),
I, Robert S. Whatley, Vice President Finance of the Company, certify, pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

To
the best of my knowledge, after reasonable investigation:  

(1)                                     The Report fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)                                     The information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result
of operations of the Company. 

Date:
  March 29, 2006  

By  

/s/
  Robert S. Whatley  

Robert
  S. Whatley, 
  Vice President Finance  

The
foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and is not being filed as part of the
Report or as a separate disclosure document.  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or
other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the
signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this
written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

