<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_908598_0000950134-06-006355_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>534739</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>194515</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>211454</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>41</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-006355.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331120128
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-006355
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AETRIUM INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000908598
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	INSTRUMENTS FOR MEAS & TESTING OF ELECTRICITY & ELEC SIGNALS [3825]
		IRS NUMBER:				411439182
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-22166
		FILM NUMBER:		06726482

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2350 HELEN ST
		CITY:			NORTH ST PAUL
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55109
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6127041800

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2350 HELEN STREET
		CITY:			NORTH ST PAUL
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55109

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 QDFURIdzxYo0tWQKbF2ykEENt3FlYpHjhfSBFpXvk/f9k8BBz8Dzss0ByW0fNw/J
 EUTHcsNsTbMWmw7eRdl0Uw==

 0000950134-06-006355.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 c03145e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 
Commission file number 000-22166 

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
NONE 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.001 PER SHARE 

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, (as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act). Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Large accelerated filer     Accelerated filer    
Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2). Yes     No    

As of June 30, 2005 (the last business day of the Registrant s most recently completed second
fiscal quarter), the aggregate market value of the Common Stock of the Registrant (based upon the
closing price of the Common Stock at that date as reported by the The Nasdaq Stock Market),
excluding outstanding shares beneficially owned by directors and executive officers, was
$26,437,000.

As of March 17, 2006, 9,908,464 shares of Common Stock of the Registrant were outstanding.

Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K incorporates by reference information (to the
extent specific sections are referred to herein) from the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement
for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 24, 2006 (the  2006 Proxy Statement ).

Form 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PART I  

ITEM 1.  

BUSINESS   

1  

ITEM 1A.  

RISK FACTORS   

9  

ITEM 2.  

PROPERTIES   

11  

ITEM 3.  

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   

12  

ITEM 4.  

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

12  

ITEM 4A.  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

13  

PART II  

ITEM 5  

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   

15  

ITEM 6.  

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   

16  

ITEM 7.  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

17  

ITEM 7A.  

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   

24  

ITEM 8.  

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

24  

ITEM 9.  

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   

24  

ITEM 9A.  

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   

25  

ITEM 9B.  

OTHER INFORMATION   

25  

PART III  

ITEM 10.  

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

26  

ITEM 11.  

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   

26  

ITEM 12.  

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT   

26  

ITEM 13.  

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   

26  

ITEM 14.  

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   

27  

PART IV  

ITEM 15.  

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

28  

Commercial Lease    
     Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm's Consent    
     Certification Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification Pursuant to Section 906    

Table of Contents   

PART I 

This Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For this purpose, any statements contained in this Form
10-K that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing, words such as  may,   will,   expect,   believe,   anticipate, 
 estimate  or  continue  or comparable terminology are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. These statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties, and
actual results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including those set forth
under Item 1A below. We undertake no obligation to correct or update any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised,
however, to consult any future disclosures we may make on related subjects in future filings with
the SEC. References in this Form 10-K to  Aetrium,   the company,   we  and  our,  unless the
context otherwise requires, refer to Aetrium Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries and
their respective predecessors.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Overview 

We design, manufacture and market a variety of electromechanical equipment used in the
handling and testing of semiconductor and passive electronic devices, such as integrated circuits,
or ICs, and discrete electronic devices. Our primary focus is on high volume IC device types and
on the latest device package designs. Our products are purchased primarily by semiconductor
manufacturers and their assembly and test subcontractors. Our products are used in the test,
assembly and packaging, or TAP, segment of semiconductor manufacturing (in which we include the
manufacture of both semiconductor and passive electronic devices). Our products automate critical
functions to improve manufacturing yield, raise quality levels, increase product reliability and
reduce manufacturing costs.

We have three principal equipment product lines:

Test Handler Products  . In terms of revenue, this is our largest product line. Our
broad line of test handler products incorporates thermal conditioning, contacting and
automated handling technologies to provide automated handling of ICs and discrete
electronic devices during production test cycles. We also offer change kits to adapt
our test handlers to different device package configurations or to upgrade installed
equipment for enhanced performance. Change kits represent a significant part of our
revenue. 

Semiconductor Automation Products  . Our primary line of semiconductor automation
products is sold to semiconductor manufacturers and is used to automate the loading and
unloading of burn-in boards. We also sell semiconductor automation products to original
equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, to be incorporated as the automated handling
components of such OEMs  own proprietary equipment for a variety of other IC processing
requirements, such as marking, lead scanning, and lead trim and form. 

Reliability Test Equipment  . The primary focus of our reliability test products is
to provide IC manufacturers with structural performance data to aid in the evaluation
and improvement of IC designs and manufacturing processes to increase IC yield and
reliability. 

Test handler products accounted for 41%, 56% and 52% of our net sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. Semiconductor automation products accounted for 8%, 6% and 11% of our net sales in

Table of Contents   

2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Reliability test equipment accounted for 24%, 21% and 20%
of our net sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Change kits and spare parts accounted for
27%, 17% and 17% of our net sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Industry conditions for the semiconductor equipment industry weakened during the second half
of 2004, and these weakened industry conditions continued into 2005. However, by mid 2005 the
semiconductor industry had worked out of the excess inventory position that became apparent by the
second half of 2004, and production capacity utilization rates had risen to a high level. These
factors and continuing growth in demand for ICs began fueling a recovery for the semiconductor
equipment industry, and particularly the TAP segment, that gained momentum during the remainder of
2005. According to Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International, although bookings and
revenues for the TAP segment of the semiconductor equipment industry were down 13.4% and 16.1%,
respectively, over 2004, bookings increased throughout the year, and revenues increased
particularly in the second half of the year. Our results were similar in pattern. Our revenues
declined over the first half of 2005 before beginning to rebound in the second half with sequential
increases of 19% and 51% in the third and fourth quarters, respectively. Our bookings in 2005
declined 9.6% over 2004, but bookings activity gained significant momentum over the year,
particularly in the fourth quarter, and we ended the year with $8.1 million in backlog. Our
improving performance, aided by favorable industry conditions, was augmented by successful
completions of evaluations and follow on orders by new and established customers for our newest
product introductions.

Analysts of the semiconductor industry are generally forecasting continued growth in that
industry throughout 2006. Assuming continued favorable industry conditions, we believe that our
solid product offerings, including our newest product introductions, coupled with our lean cost
structure and our strong working capital base, position us to out perform our industry segment.

All of our product development and manufacturing activities are conducted at either our North
St. Paul, Minnesota or Dallas, Texas facilities. We manufacture products within each of our
principal product lines at both of these facilities.

Our strategy has focused on revenue growth through product line expansion, by both internally
developing and acquiring complementary technologies, businesses or product lines. Technologies,
businesses and product lines that we have acquired in the past pursuant to this strategy have since
been assimilated and consolidated into our current operations.

We were incorporated in Minnesota in December 1982. Our executive offices are located at 2350
Helen Street, North St. Paul, Minnesota 55109. Our telephone number is (651) 770-2000. Our website
address is  www.aetrium.com . We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports
on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to
those reports, as soon as is reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed
with or furnished to the SEC. Our website is not intended to be a part of, nor are we incorporating
it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Financial Information About Segments 

Since our inception, we have operated in the single industry segment of supplying
electromechanical equipment to the semiconductor industry. Our financial results are set forth in
Items 6 and 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

2

Table of Contents   

Test Handler Products 

Test handlers are electromechanical systems interfaced with a tester to form a test system
designed to handle, thermally condition, contact and sort ICs and discrete electronic devices
automatically during the final test stage of the manufacturing process. The devices are loaded
into the test handler from bowls, tubes or trays and then, if required, transported to a
temperature chamber within the test handler where they are thermally conditioned and controlled to
the required testing temperature. The devices are then placed into a contactor, which provides an
electrical connection between the device and the tester. After testing, the test handler sorts the
devices according to test performance as provided by the tester. In some cases, additional process
steps are completed by the test handler system. These include marking or inspection of the device
packages, and automatic placement of the devices into a tube, tray or tape for shipment to the end
user. Test handlers must meet industry criteria for thermal conditioning, contactor integrity and
minimization of damage to the device during the test handling cycle.

ICs are multi-function semiconductor devices that may contain millions of individual
transistors, and include microprocessors, microcontrollers, digital signal processors and memory
devices. ICs come in a wide range of sizes and package types, depending upon their application.
Discrete electronic devices are single function semiconductor devices, such as transistors and
diodes, and passive electronic devices, such as resistors and capacitors. They are typically very
small and are manufactured in several package types.

In the testing of ICs and discrete electronic devices, the device package type being tested
often dictates the type of test handler used. Small outline packages, or SOPs, constituting the
largest IC package segment, have leads, or electrical contacts, extending from two sides and are
typically tested with gravity feed test handlers. Micro leadless packages, or MLPs (and sometimes
referred to as MLF  TM  s, SONs or QFNs), have electrical contact pads flush with
the sides and bottoms of the ICs and are typically tested with gravity feed or turret based test
handlers. MLPs constitute one of the fastest growing new IC package types.

Discrete electronic device package types include small outline transistor packages, or SOTs,
which are also sometimes used for the smallest ICs. Discrete electronic device package types are
typically tested with turret based test handlers.

More complex ICs are sometimes packaged in IC package families with leads more easily damaged
in handling. These package families are typically tested with pick-and-place test handlers.

Our primary focus continues to be on the newest device and package types, and the largest
volume and fastest growing markets, in the IC side of the semiconductor industry. Our test handler
products are complementary with minimal overlap of application, and we distribute and service them
through a common organization for efficiency. Our primary test handler product lines are our
gravity feed test handlers and our turret based test handlers.

Gravity Feed Test Handlers  

Traditionally, test handlers have used gravity to move ICs from tubes or trays through the
handler system and back into tubes or trays. Typically, in gravity feed systems ICs are halted at
necessary points in the handling process by stopping against other ICs or singulation mechanisms,
which can result in lead damage to IC packages with more fragile leads. Accordingly, gravity feed
handlers are best suited for leadless packages and IC packages with more rugged leads, which
include MLPs and most SOPs.

Our gravity feed test handlers compete most favorably in high-volume applications and their
high throughput rates are an added advantage in relatively short test time applications. These
handlers adapt to  plunge-to-board -type contacting and third party contactors, as well as our
internally developed

3

Table of Contents   

proprietary contactors, providing cost-effective solutions to a wide range of customer test
requirements. In  plunge-to-board -type contacting, the IC is placed directly against the test head
with no intermediary sockets or connections, which is particularly well suited for high performance
ICs. Our gravity feed test handlers can heat or cool the ICs being tested to test temperatures
ranging from -55 degrees C to  155 degrees C. They use mechanical refrigeration to cool ICs, which
is more economical and less dangerous than liquid nitrogen, commonly used as a refrigerant in
competing handlers. Our dual and quad site gravity feed test handlers can simultaneously test
devices in each of their sites to increase productivity and reduce testing costs in certain
applications. Our principal gravity feed test handlers include:

55V6 Series.  First introduced in 2002, our 55V6 Series of single and dual
site gravity feed test handlers for analog and logic IC applications addresses a wide
range of IC packages, including SOPs and MLPs. The 55V6 Series offers a small
footprint, a vertical backplane that can accommodate any size of test head, and our
high speed test site actuator that we believe offers significant throughput advantages
over our competition, depending upon device test times and thermal conditioning
requirements. 

55V8 Series.  Our recently introduced 55V8 Series of quad site gravity feed
test handlers for analog and logic IC applications addresses a wide range of IC
packages, including SOPs and MLPs. The 55V8 Series offers the advantages of the 55V6
Series, including our high speed test site actuator. 

5050 Series . Our 5050 Series of gravity feed test handlers for analog and
logic IC applications addresses a wide range of SOP package types. In addition to
single test site capability, we offer dual test site and quad test site capability
within our 5050 Series of handlers .  

Turret Based Test Handlers  

Turret based test handlers have a series of pickup heads that rotate around a fixed axis and
move devices from station to station. They are typically configured for bowl feed input and tape
and reel output, although they can be configured for tube or tray input and tube or tray output.
One or more stations on turret based handlers are used for testing ICs and discrete electronic
devices. Stations on turret based handlers can also be used for additional process steps such as
marking and inspection. Turret based handlers are well suited for discrete electronic devices and
smaller ICs that are difficult to handle in gravity feed handlers because of their size and small
mass, and are well suited for MLPs because MLPs can be handled in bulk. Turret based handlers are
typically more costly than gravity feed handlers, but typically offer higher throughput rates than
gravity feed handlers.

Our turret based test handlers are designed for high volume testing of discrete electronic
devices and ICs in MLP, SOT and some CSP packages. CSPs, or chip scale packages, are a category of
some of the smallest IC packages, with package sizes being no more than 1.2 times the size of the
IC die within. Our turret based test handlers can integrate several functions, including test,
laser marking, mark inspection, lead inspection, and tape and reel output. They can be configured
for a variety of options for contacting, including  plunge-to-board -type contacting. These test
handlers are typically configured for bowl feed input and tape and reel output. Our principal
turret based handlers include:

Model 5800.  We introduced the Model 5800 Integrated Test Handler in 2000.
It has eight stations, and can be configured for up to four test sites. It operates at
temperatures ranging from ambient to  150 degrees C, and can be configured for tube
input and tube output. 

Model 8832.  We introduced the Model 8832 Integrated Test Handler in 2000.
It has 32 stations, which provide a high degree of flexibility in integrating
additional device process
functions into the handler. It can be configured for up to eight test sites and,
optionally, for tube or tray input and tube or tray output. 

4

Table of Contents   

Change Kits, Upgrades and Spare Part   s 

We have an ongoing demand for IC and discrete electronic device package change kits for our
installed test handler products, including test handlers no longer in our active product lines. We
sell a variety of change kits to accommodate the growing variety of device packages used in the
semiconductor industry. The demand for change kits is driven by the introduction of new device
package types and increased production volumes experienced by our end customers. Also included in
change kits are upgrade kits to enhance the performance of installed equipment. We sell spare
parts with new equipment orders as kits or separately as piece parts or in kit form as required.

Semiconductor Automation Products 

We have applied our core automation technologies to extend our product lines to other
applications of automation of the handling of ICs and discrete electronic devices.

Our primary product line of automation products is our 4800 Series, used to automate the
loading and unloading of burn-in boards. Burn-in boards vary in size and density, and are used to
place individual ICs into a convection oven for an extensive reliability screening and stress
testing procedure known as  burn-in.  Our burn-in board automation products take untested ICs out
of trays or other media and place them into sockets on a burn-in board. After the burn-in test is
complete, the 4800 Series system unloads and removes ICs that have completed the burn-in cycle from
the burn-in board sockets and sorts the ICs according to the results of the test as provided by the
burn-in system. The burn-in process screens for early failures by operating the IC at elevated
voltages and temperatures, usually at 125 degrees C, for periods typically ranging from 12 to 96
hours. Burn-in systems can process thousands of ICs simultaneously, utilizing multiple boards.
Most leading-edge microprocessors, digital signal processors, and memory ICs undergo burn-in
testing.

Our 4800 Series comes in single pick-up head, dual-head, five-head, ten-head and our recently
introduced sixteen-head versions. The single and dual head models are best suited for large IC
packages or for those applications requiring a quick conversion of the 4800 Series system to handle
a different IC package. The five-head, ten-head and sixteen-head systems are best suited to high
volume memory applications. Our new sixteen-head version offers significant throughput advantage
over other versions and in 2005 successfully completed an evaluation and verification process at a
key customer. All versions are available with a variety of input and output options, including
tubes and trays. Package positioning stations ensure device alignment into sockets and output
media. An optional stacked burn-in board elevator and trolley allows the system to process up to 32
burn-in boards without any operator intervention.

Reliability Test Equipment 

The IC industry s demand for higher performance devices through smaller circuit geometries has
led to significant technological changes in the materials and processes used to manufacture ICs,
including a continuing migration to copper materials for the increasingly minute circuitry of
devices. These changes in technology, along with IC user demand for increased reliability, have
created a need for increasingly sophisticated reliability testing of IC designs and manufacturing
processes. Our reliability test equipment product line enables IC manufacturers to force and
measure precise levels of voltage and current through ICs, collect and analyze relevant data, and
predict lifetime performance of ICs. This equipment can be utilized to perform reliability testing
of packaged and unpackaged ICs.

5

Table of Contents   

In 1998, we introduced our 1164 Series of reliability test equipment, including a suite of
applications for customers to perform a variety of tests. We have since added many new features,
including the full reliability test functionality necessary for testing an IC manufacturer s entire
copper process. The 1164 Series features a modular design that allows for great flexibility in
performing reliability tests, and can test up to 4,096 devices at a time and perform numerous
simultaneous tests on batches of ICs. 15 of the top 20 semiconductor manufacturers in the world are
using our 1164 Series of reliability test equipment for copper and related advanced process
technologies.

Our reliability test products also include a line of products designed to test over-voltage
protection devices for telecommunications applications.

Competition 

The semiconductor capital equipment market is highly competitive. In the market for test
handler products, we compete with a number of companies ranging from very small businesses to large
companies, some of which have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and product
development resources than we have. Some of these companies manufacture and sell both testers and
test handlers. The particular companies with which we compete vary with our different test handler
product lines, with no one company dominating the overall test handler market. The companies with
which we compete most directly in the test handler market include Multitest Electronic Systems
GmbH, Rasco AG, Yokogawa Electric Corporation, Ismeca S.A., SRM Technology (M) Sdn Bhd, Tesec
Corporation and Cohu, Inc.

We compete for test handler sales primarily on the basis of effective handler throughput, cost
of ownership, temperature accuracy and other performance characteristics of our products, the
breadth of our product lines, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels and our
customer relationships. We believe we compete favorably on all of these factors.

The market for burn-in board automation products is highly competitive. We compete with a
number of companies ranging from very small businesses to large companies, some of which have
substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and product development resources than we
have. The companies with which we compete most directly in this market include Cohu, Inc., Racal
Instruments and Todo Seisakusho, Ltd.

We compete for burn-in board automation product sales primarily on the basis of effective
throughput, cost of ownership, versatility, and other performance characteristics of our products,
design customization, the breadth of our product line, the effectiveness of our sales and
distribution channels and our customer service. We believe we compete favorably on all of these
factors.

The market for our reliability test equipment is also highly competitive and our competitors
include QualiTau, Ltd., Chiron Technology Pte. Ltd., ESPEC Corp. and Reedholm Instruments Co. We
compete for reliability test system sales on the basis of technology, price, delivery, system
flexibility and overall system performance. We believe we compete favorably on all of these
factors.

Manufacturing and Supplies 

We manufacture test handlers, reliability test equipment and some automation products at our
North St. Paul, Minnesota facility. We manufacture our turret based test handler products, some of
our reliability test equipment and our 4800 Series at our Dallas, Texas facility. Our manufacturing
operations consist of procurement and inspection of components and subassemblies, assembly and
extensive testing of finished products.

6

Table of Contents   

We emphasize quality and reliability in both the design and manufacture of our products. We
or our suppliers inspect all components and subassemblies for mechanical and electrical compliance
to our specifications. We test all finished products against our specifications, and customer
specifications where applicable, and fully assembled test handler products are tested at all
temperatures for which they are designed and with all the device packages to be accommodated.

A significant portion of the components and subassemblies used in our products, including
machined parts, PC boards, refrigeration systems, vacuum pumps and contactor elements, are
manufactured by third parties on a subcontract basis. As a part of our total quality management
program, we have an ongoing supplier quality program under which we select, monitor and rate our
suppliers, and recognize suppliers for outstanding performance.

Certain components used in our products, including certain contactor components, printed
circuit boards and refrigeration systems, are currently available from only a limited number of
sources. We do not maintain long-term supply agreements with most of our suppliers, and we purchase
most of our components through individual purchase orders. We may not always be able to replace all
of our suppliers within a time period consistent with our business requirements. We attempt to
keep an adequate supply of critical components in our inventory to minimize any significant impact
the loss of a supplier may cause.

Customers 

We rely on a limited number of customers for a substantial percentage of our net sales. In
2005, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. accounted for 33% of net sales and UST Technology Pte. Ltd.,
one of our international distributors, accounted for 24% of net sales. Maxim Integrated Products,
Inc. also accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2004 and 2003. Samsung America, Inc. also
accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2004, and MB Electronique S.A., another of our
international distributors, also accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2003. The loss of or a
significant reduction in orders by these or other significant customers, including reductions due
to market, economic or competitive conditions in the semiconductor industry, would likely have a
negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

Sales and Marketing 

We market our products through a combination of direct salespeople, domestic independent sales
representatives and international distributors. Our direct sales organization, comprised of seven
salespeople, is responsible for most domestic sales, and coordinates the activities of our domestic
independent sales representatives and international distributors and actively participates with
them in selling efforts. This enables us to establish strong direct ties with our customers.

We maintain sales and service locations in North St. Paul, Minnesota, Santa Clara, California,
San Diego, California, Dallas, Texas, and Saugus, Massachusetts. As of December 31, 2005, we had
international distributors located in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Korea, Japan,
Taiwan, Hong Kong, China, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines.

Our marketing efforts include participation in industry trade shows and production of product
literature and sales support tools. These efforts are designed to generate sales leads for our
domestic independent sales representatives, international distributors and direct salespeople.

International shipments accounted for 63%, 52% and 54% of our net sales in 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively. In addition, it is not uncommon for U.S. customers to take delivery of
products in the

7

Table of Contents   

United States for subsequent shipment to international sites. Most of our international
shipments are made to international sites of U.S. semiconductor manufacturers, although there is a
growing foreign customer base included in our international sales.

We invoice all of our international sales in U.S. dollars and, accordingly, have not
historically been subject to fluctuating currency exchange rates. We establish credit limits from
time to time on our international distributors, who purchase products from us and resell to
end-users. We may also require irrevocable letters of credit from our end-user international
customers to minimize credit risk and to simplify the purchasing/payment cycle.

Research and Development 

We believe we must continue to enhance, broaden and modify our existing product lines to meet
the constantly evolving needs of the semiconductor equipment market. To date, we have relied both
on internal development and acquisitions of technology and product lines to extend our product
lines, increase our customer base and avoid reliance on any single semiconductor equipment market
segment. Our research and development is conducted at both our North St. Paul, Minnesota and
Dallas, Texas facilities. We focus our new product development efforts on what we believe to be the
most compelling requirements in the largest and fastest growing segments of the IC side of the
semiconductor industry, with emphasis on near term revenue potential. In 2005, we concentrated our
new product development efforts on:

completing development of and beta testing the 55V8 Series quad test site
gravity feed handlers; 

developing eight test site capability for the 55V Series of test handlers; 

extending our turret based test handler product line; 

developing and beta testing the sixteen-head model burn in board
loader/unloader for the 4800 Series; and 

developing additional test capabilities for our 1164 Series of reliability
test equipment for the latest generations of copper, gate oxide and transistor device
technologies. 

Product development expenses include new product development and continuation engineering. Our
continuation engineering efforts include the development of additional change kits to meet the
expanding families of IC and discrete electronic device package types, further advancement of
contactor technologies, and the addition of features and performance options for existing
equipment.

We expense all research and development costs, including costs for software development, as
incurred. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, our expenses relating to research and development were
approximately $3.1 million, $3.6 million and $2.6 million, respectively. In 2005 our research and
development expense totaled about 19% of our revenue. Over time, our objective is to invest
approximately 12% to 15% of our net sales in research and development. However, the percentage may
be higher in periods of reduced sales, such as 2005. We employed 24 engineering personnel as of
December 31, 2005.

Intellectual Property 

We attempt to protect the proprietary aspects of our products with patents, copyrights, trade
secret law and internal nondisclosure safeguards. We currently hold several U.S. patents covering
certain

8

Table of Contents   

features of our handling systems, reliability test systems and automation products, the
contactor elements incorporated in certain of our test handlers, and elements of our proprietary
conductive thermal technology. The source code for the software contained in our products is
considered proprietary and we typically do not furnish source code to our customers. We have also
entered into confidentiality agreements with our employees. Despite these restrictions, it may be
possible for competitors or users to copy aspects of our products or to obtain information that we
regard as a trade secret.

There is a rapid pace of technological change in the semiconductor industry, which in turn
compels us to continually enhance and extend our product lines. We believe that patent, trade
secret and copyright protection is less significant to our competitive position than factors such
as the knowledge, ability and experience of our personnel, new product development, frequent
product enhancements, name recognition and ongoing, reliable product maintenance and support.

Backlog 

Our backlog was $8.1 million at the end of 2005 and $2.8 million at the end of 2004. Because
purchase orders are generally subject to cancellation or delay by customers with limited or no
penalty, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future revenue or earnings. We expect to
ship in 2006 all of our backlog as of the end of 2005.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2005, we had 91 employees, consisting of 38 in manufacturing, 24 in
engineering and product development, 17 in sales, marketing and customer service, and 12 in general
administration and finance. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is subject to
any collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced a work stoppage and we believe that
our employee relations are satisfactory.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas 

See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form
10-K for information about geographic areas.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. 

Several important risks and uncertainties exist which could have an impact on our future
operating results. These factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our
anticipated results or results that are reflected in any forward-looking statements in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. These factors, and their impact on the success of our operations and our
ability to achieve our goals, include the following:

Market Fluctuations in the Semiconductor Industry  

Our business and results of operations depend upon capital expenditures by manufacturers of
ICs and discrete electronic devices. As a result, our operating results are materially dependent
upon economic and business conditions in the semiconductor industry. This industry has been
subject to significant market fluctuations and has experienced periodic downturns, which often have
had a disproportionate effect on capital equipment suppliers, such as Aetrium. In periods of
excess capacity, the semiconductor industry sharply reduces purchases of capital equipment, such as
our products. A downturn or slowdown in the semiconductor industry could substantially reduce our
revenues and operating results and could harm our financial condition. There has been a trend of
increasing revenues in the TAP segment of the

9

Table of Contents   

semiconductor equipment industry that began in the third quarter of 2005. This trend may not
continue and a reversal of this trend could have a material and adverse impact on our operations.

Successful Development and Introduction of New Products and Product Improvements  

We operate in an industry that is highly competitive with respect to timely product
innovations. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change and
evolving industry standards. The development of more complex ICs has driven the need for new
equipment and processes to produce such devices at an acceptable cost. We believe that our future
success will depend in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond rapidly to changes in
technologies, IC and discrete electronic device package types, market trends and industry
standards. If we cannot successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced cost-effective
products on a timely basis that are accepted in the marketplace, our business and operating results
would likely suffer.

Reliance on Significant Customers  

We rely on a limited number of customers for a substantial percentage of our net sales. A
reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of these significant customers, or the
loss of one or more of these customers, would likely have a negative impact on our operating
results.

Impact of Competitive Markets  

The markets for all of our main product lines are highly competitive. Some of our competitors
have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and product development resources
than we have. For most of our customers, we are not the sole supplier of our type of equipment. In
addition, it is common for customers to evaluate more than one supplier s equipment for their
emerging requirements. Accordingly, we are at significant risk to lose orders to competing
suppliers, and even to being displaced as a supplier at potentially significant customers, which
would likely have a negative impact on our operating results.

Fixed Cost Constraints on Reduction of Expenses  

Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to properties, capital equipment and certain
manufacturing overhead items, are fixed in the short term. Accordingly, reduced demand for our
products and services causes our fixed production costs to be allocated across reduced production
volumes, which negatively affects our gross margins and profitability. Our ability to reduce
expenses is further constrained because we must continue to invest in research and development to
maintain our competitive position and to maintain service and support for our existing customer
base. Accordingly, in the event of a reduction in our revenues, resulting from an industry
downturn or otherwise, we may not be able to maintain profitable operations.

Impact of Cost Reduction Actions  

In the event of a sustained downturn and continuing decline in our revenues, we may implement
cost reduction actions, such as workforce reductions, consolidation of operations, pay freezes and
reductions, and reductions in other expenditures. In doing so, we would attempt to maintain the
necessary infrastructures to allow us to take full advantage of subsequent improvements in
conditions. However, there can be no assurance that reductions we may have made in personnel and
expenditure levels and the loss of the capabilities of personnel we may have terminated would not
inhibit us in the timely completion of product development efforts, the effective service of and
responsiveness to customer requirements, and the timely ramp up of production in response to
improving market conditions.

10

Table of Contents   

Impact of Changes in Securities Laws and Regulations  

We have made, and will need to continue to make, changes in our corporate governance and
securities disclosure and compliance practices as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The
SEC and the NASD have enacted, and we expect will continue to enact, new rules on a variety of
subjects as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe that we can ultimately
comply with the new legislated requirements associated with being a public company, compliance with
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will increase our costs and may present new challenges and risks.
These developments could also possibly make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain director
and officer liability insurance. We may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur
substantially higher costs to obtain coverage for our officers and directors, which may make it
more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified board members or executive officers. We are
currently evaluating and monitoring regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or
magnitude of additional costs that may be incurred as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Reduction in the Sales Efforts by our Current Distributors  

We market and sell our test handlers and reliability test products outside of the United
States primarily through international distributors that are not under our direct control. We have
limited internal sales personnel. A reduction in the sales efforts by our current distributors, or
the termination of one or more of these relationships with Aetrium, could negatively affect our
operating results.

Risks Inherent in our International Sales  

We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our
net sales. As a result, our operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in conducting
business internationally, which if any of them occur could negatively impact our operating results.

Supply of Significant Components for our Products  

Certain significant components used in our products, including certain contactor components,
printed circuit boards, and refrigeration systems, are currently available only from sole or
limited sources. We do not maintain long-term supply agreements with most of our suppliers and we
purchase most of our components through individual purchase orders. Our inability to obtain
components in required quantities or of acceptable quality could result in delays or reductions in
our product introductions or shipments, which could damage our relationships with our customers and
cause our operating results to suffer.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. 

We conduct our corporate functions and manufacturing, product development, sales, marketing
and field service activities in North St. Paul, Minnesota. We currently occupy approximately
45,000 square feet in North St. Paul under a lease that expires in February 2011. We also conduct
manufacturing, product development, sales, marketing and field service activities in approximately
28,000 square feet in Dallas, Texas, under a lease that expires in April 2008. We consider our
present facilities to be sufficient for our current operations.

In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had the following lease obligations:

We vacated a 30,000 square foot facility that is adjacent to our North St.
Paul facility in June 2001 when we consolidated our North St. Paul operations into a
single building. As of 

11

Table of Contents   

December 31, 2005, approximately two-thirds of this space was subleased to third parties.
This facility was under a lease that expired in February 2006. 

We vacated a 45,000 square foot facility in Poway, California in 2000.
This lease expires in January 2010. This space is currently subleased to third
parties. We remain liable under the lease on a contingent basis. 

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. 

We are not a party to, and none of our property is the subject of, any material pending legal,
governmental, administrative or other proceedings.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. 

We did not submit any matter to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of
fiscal year 2005.

12

Table of Contents   

ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. 

Our executive officers, their ages and the offices they held as of March 1, 2006 are as
follows:

Name  
       
      Age  
       
      Position  

Joseph C. Levesque

61 

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 

Douglas L. Hemer

59 

Chief Administrative Officer, Secretary and Director 

Daniel M. Koch

52 

Vice President   Worldwide Sales 

John J. Pollock

46 

Vice President   General Manager, North St. Paul Operations 

Keith E. Williams

62 

President   Dallas Operations 

Paul H. Askegaard

54 

Treasurer 

Timothy G. Foley

46 

Vice President   Manufacturing, North St. Paul Operations 

Dean K. Hedstrom

56 

Vice President   Engineering, North St. Paul Operations 

Mr. Levesque   has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board
since 1986. From 1973 to 1986, Mr. Levesque served in various capacities and most recently as
Executive Vice President of Micro Component Technology, Inc., a manufacturer of IC testers and test
handlers.

Mr. Hemer   has served as one of our directors since 1986, and has served as our Secretary since
May 2000 and as our Chief Administrative Officer since March 2001. He served as our Group Vice
President from August 1998 to March 2001, as the President of our Poway, California operations from
February 1997 to August 1998 and as our Chief Administrative Officer from May 1996 until February
1997. Mr. Hemer was a partner in the law firm of Oppenheimer Wolff   Donnelly LLP for more than 15
years before joining Aetrium. Mr. Hemer is also a director of Versa Companies, a privately held
company.

Mr. Koch   has served as our Vice President   Worldwide Sales since March 1991. From March 1990
to March 1991, Mr. Koch served as the Vice President of Sales of Summation, Inc., a company
involved with the testing of IC boards. From December 1973 to March 1990, Mr. Koch served in
various sales positions and most recently as Vice President of Sales of Micro Component Technology,
Inc.

Mr. Pollock   has served as the Vice President and General Manager of our North St. Paul
operations since December 2001. From August 1998 to December 2001, Mr. Pollock served as our Vice
President of Product Development and Marketing. From April 1998 to August 1998, Mr. Pollock served
as interim general manager of our North St. Paul operations. From November 1997 to May 1998, Mr.
Pollock served as interim general manager of a test handler product line we had recently acquired.
From September 1996 to August 1997, Mr. Pollock served as a Business Unit Manager.

Mr. Williams   has served as the President of our Dallas operations since April 1998, when we
acquired the handler equipment business of WEB Technology, Inc. Mr. Williams co-founded WEB in
1982, and served as its President and CEO from its inception until we acquired it.

13

Table of Contents   

Mr. Askegaard   has served as our Treasurer since February 1992. From October 1986 to February
1992, Mr. Askegaard served as our Corporate Controller.

Mr. Foley   has served as the Vice President   Manufacturing of our North St. Paul operations
since December 2001. Prior to that, he served at our North St. Paul Operations as Vice President  
Operations from August 1998 to December 2001, Vice President   Manufacturing from October 1996 to
August 1998, and in various other positions since joining us in 1988.

Mr. Hedstrom   has served as the Vice President   Engineering of our North St. Paul operations
since September 2004. From 1993 to 1998 Mr. Hedstrom was a co-founder, director, and later
President of CariTech, Inc., a manufacturer of carrier tape materials for the IC industry.
Following the acquisition of CariTech by Illinois Tool Works in August 1998, he served as
Engineering Manager   World Wide Operations for Illinois Tool Works until May 2001. Prior to
founding CariTech and subsequent to his retirement from Illinois Tool Works, Mr. Hedstrom served as
President and a Principal of Hedstrom Engineering Co., a consulting firm specializing in industrial
automation and controls.

14

Table of Contents   

PART II 

ITEM 5.  
       
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER S PURCHASES
OF EQUITY SECURITIES.  

Market Information 

Our common stock is quoted on The Nasdaq National Market under the symbol  ATRM.  The
following table summarizes the high and low closing sale prices per share of our common stock for
the periods indicated, as reported on The Nasdaq National Market. These prices do not include
adjustments for retail mark-ups, markdowns or commissions.

Holders 

As of March 17, 2006, there were 154 shareholders of record. We estimate that an additional
3,000 shareholders beneficially own stock held for their accounts at brokerage firms and financial
institutions.

Dividends 

We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any
earnings for use in our operations and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable
future.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 

The information required to be disclosed by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K,  Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans,  is included under Item 12 of Part III of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Recent Sale of Unregistered Securities 

We did not have any unregistered sales of equity securities during fiscal year 2005.

Issuer s Purchases of Equity Securities 

We did not make any purchases of our common stock during the three months ended December 31,
2005.

15

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. 

You should read the Selected Financial Data presented below in conjunction with the
Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, and in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Five Year Summary 
(in thousands, except per share data) 

1. 
       
     As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,  we recorded no goodwill amortization expense in
2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Goodwill amortization expense amounted to
$0.7 million in 2001. 

2. 
       
     Includes a $0.1 million gain on a claim settlement and a $0.2 million
loss on the sale of marketable securities. See Note 6 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. 

3. 
       
     Includes a $0.1 million restructuring charge. 

4. 
       
     Includes a $0.7 million goodwill impairment charge. 

5. 
       
     Includes a $6.5 million goodwill impairment charge recorded as a
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle upon the
adoption of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  

6. 
       
     Includes pre-tax charges of $3.7 million for inventory excess and
obsolescence charges and $2.2 million for charges related to
restructuring costs and asset write-downs. 

16

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7.  
       
      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview: 

Aetrium designs, manufactures and markets a variety of electromechanical equipment used by the
semiconductor industry to handle and test semiconductor and passive electronic devices, such as
integrated circuits, or ICs, and discrete electronic devices. Our primary emphasis is on the IC
segment of semiconductor manufacturing. Our equipment is used primarily in
the test, assembly and packaging, or TAP, segment of the semiconductor equipment
industry.

The semiconductor equipment industry is often described as a cyclical growth industry
characterized by a long-term growth trend occasionally interrupted by periods of contraction and
significant declines in revenue. General industry conditions and the demand for Aetrium s products
can fluctuate significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including but
not limited to changes in U.S. and worldwide economic conditions, supply and demand for ICs and
discrete electronic devices, changes in semiconductor manufacturing capacity, advancements in
industry technologies and competitive factors. For these and other reasons, our operating results
for 2003, 2004 and 2005 may not be indicative of future operating results.

Following a period of significant business expansion through calendar year 2000, the
semiconductor equipment industry experienced a deep and prolonged business downturn during the
three-year period ended December 31, 2003. U.S. and global economic conditions were generally weak
during this period and although there was a brief improvement in industry conditions in early 2002,
the apparent recovery stalled and many semiconductor manufacturers continued to experience
significantly reduced demand for their products, elevated inventory levels and significant excess
production capacity. These factors led to a dramatic cutback in capital spending, resulting in the
most severe downturn in the history of the semiconductor equipment industry. Aetrium s revenues
decreased significantly and our 2002 revenues of $12.7 million were down 37% compared with 2001 and
down 72% compared with 2000.

In 2003, semiconductor industry business conditions remained very weak although there were
signs of improvement as the year progressed, including increasing shipments of semiconductors,
decreasing inventory levels, improving capacity utilization rates and an improving economic
climate. As the end of the year approached, these factors led to increased capital spending at
levels that suggested the beginning of an industry recovery. Aetrium s revenues remained
relatively flat through the first three quarters of 2003 and increased in the fourth quarter as
equipment orders increased significantly. As a result of the stronger fourth quarter, our 2003
revenues of $14.1 million were up 11% compared with 2002.

In the first half of 2004, business conditions improved significantly as many semiconductor
manufacturers increased capital spending in response to increased demand for their products.
Aetrium s revenues increased dramatically in this period and were more than double the revenues for
the first half of 2003. However, industry conditions weakened again in the second half of 2004 as
semiconductor manufacturers addressed rising inventory levels. As a result, semiconductor
manufacturers decreased capital spending, particularly in the TAP segment of the semiconductor
equipment industry. Aetrium s orders and revenues decreased sequentially in the third and fourth
quarters, and second half revenues were approximately 18% lower than the first half of the year.
Revenues for the year totaled $27.8 million compared with $14.1 million in 2003, an increase of
97%.

Semiconductor equipment industry conditions remained generally weak in the first half of 2005
and Aetrium s revenues continued to decline in the first and second quarters. However,
semiconductor

17

Table of Contents   

industry conditions steadily improved in the second half of 2005 as many manufacturers
experienced improving demand for semiconductors, decreasing inventory levels and improving capacity
utilization rates, leading to improved business conditions for equipment suppliers as well.
Accordingly, while worldwide bookings for the TAP segment of the semiconductor equipment industry
were down 13.4% year over year and billings were down 16.1%, both bookings and billings improved
substantially in the second half of 2005. Aetrium s results followed this improving trend and our
revenues increased sequentially by 19.1% to $3.7 million in the third quarter and by 51.2% to $5.6
million in the fourth quarter. While our bookings for the year were down 9.6% from 2004, bookings
improved substantially in the second half of 2005 and we finished the year with an $8.1 million
backlog.

Industry analysts are generally forecasting that favorable conditions will continue through
2006. However, there can be no assurances as to the strength or duration of such improved business
conditions or what the impact of future industry conditions may have on Aetrium.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: 

Management s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are
based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these
financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts
of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that
we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making
judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the critical accounting policies
that require the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements are those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable,
inventories, identifiable intangible assets, warranty obligations and income tax accounting.

Revenue Recognition  

Our policy is to recognize revenue on product sales upon shipment if contractual obligations
have been substantially met, collection of the proceeds is assessed as being reasonably assured,
and title and risk of loss have passed to the customer, which is generally the case for sales of
spare parts, accessories, change kits and some equipment and equipment upgrades. In instances
where title does not pass upon shipment, revenue is recognized upon delivery or customer acceptance
based upon the terms of the sales agreement. In instances where equipment or equipment upgrade
sales contracts include significant post-shipment obligations to be performed by Aetrium, revenue
for the entire transaction is deferred until such obligations have been completed or, if
applicable, the transaction is accounted for as a multiple-element arrangement. In instances where
contractual terms can only be satisfied after shipment, such as meeting customer-specified
acceptance requirements at the customer s site, revenue is not recognized until there is objective
evidence that the applicable contract terms have been met. Due to the high selling prices of
certain types of equipment, the timing of revenue recognition of a relatively small number of
transactions may have a significant impact on our quarterly results.

Accounts Receivable  

We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts that reflects our estimate of losses that may
result from the uncollectibility of accounts receivable. Our allowance for doubtful accounts is
based primarily on an analysis of individual accounts for which we have information indicating the
customer may not be able to pay amounts owed to us. In these cases, based on the available facts
and

18

Table of Contents   

circumstances, we estimate the amount that will be collected from such customers. We also
evaluate the collectibility of our accounts receivable in the aggregate based on factors such as
the aging of receivable amounts, customer concentrations, historical experience, and current
economic trends and conditions. We adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts when additional
information is received that impacts the amount reserved. If circumstances change, our estimates of
the recoverability of accounts receivable could be reduced or increased by a material amount. Such
a change in estimated recoverability would be accounted for in the period in which the facts that
give rise to the change become known. As of December 31, 2005, our allowance for doubtful accounts
was $0.1 million.

Inventories  

We adjust our inventories for estimated excess and obsolete inventory equal to the difference
between the cost of inventory and its estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about
future product demand and market conditions. If actual product demand or market conditions are less
favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory adjustments may be required. As
of December 31, 2005, our provision for excess and obsolete inventory was $2.5 million.

Identifiable Intangible Assets  

We review our identifiable intangible assets and other long-lived assets whenever an event or
change in circumstances indicates that the carrying value of an asset may be impaired. If such an
event or change in circumstances occurs and potential impairment is indicated because the carrying
values exceed the estimated future undiscounted cash flows, we would measure the impairment loss as
the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. As of December 31,
2005, the carrying value of our identifiable intangible assets was $0.3 million.

Warranty Obligations  

We accrue estimated warranty costs in the period that the related revenue is recognized. Our
warranty cost estimates and warranty reserve requirements are determined based upon product
performance, historical warranty experience, and costs incurred in addressing product performance
issues. Should product performance or cost factors differ from our estimates, adjustments to our
warranty accrual may be required. As of December 31, 2005, our warranty reserve was $0.2 million.

Income Tax Accounting  

We record the benefit we will derive in future accounting periods from tax losses and credits
and deductible temporary differences as  deferred tax assets  on our balance sheet. These deferred
tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when we believe it is more likely than not that
some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We carry a valuation
allowance to fully reserve these assets. We assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets and
the need for this valuation allowance in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  We expect to continue to maintain a full
valuation allowance until we determine that we can sustain a level of profitability that
demonstrates our ability to use these assets. To the extent we determine that the realization of
some or all of these benefits is more likely than not based upon expected future taxable income, a
portion or all of the valuation allowance will be reversed. Such a reversal would be recorded as
an income tax benefit and, for some portion related to deductions for stock option exercises, an
increase in shareholders  equity. As of December 31, 2005, our valuation allowance was $25.6
million.

19

Table of Contents   

Results of Operations :

Selected statements of operations data as a percentage of our net sales for 2005, 2004 and
2003 were as follows:

Net Sales: 

Our net sales by product line as a percentage of total sales for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as
follows:

Net sales were $16.4 million in 2005 compared with $27.8 million in 2004, a decrease of
41%. The decrease in sales was across all of our product lines and was attributable to the slowdown
in the semiconductor industry that began in the second half of 2004 and continued into 2005. We
experienced weak business conditions through the first half of 2005, but order activity increased
in the third quarter and improved substantially in the fourth quarter. Net sales of test handlers,
representing 41% of total net sales, were $6.8 million in 2005, a decrease of 57% compared to 2004.
Net sales of reliability test equipment, representing 24% of total net sales, were $3.9 million in
2005, a decrease of 32% compared to 2004. Net sales of automation equipment, representing 8% of
total net sales, were $1.4 million in 2005, a decrease of 13% compared to 2004. Net sales of change
kits and spare parts, representing 27% of total net sales, were $4.4 million in 2005, a decrease of
9% compared to 2004. Sales of test handlers were most affected by the industry slowdown as excess
inventories at our customers and customer efforts to increase productivity of their existing
manufacturing capacity both delayed production equipment acquisitions.

Net sales were $27.8 million in 2004 compared with $14.1 million in 2003, a 97% increase.
Semiconductor industry conditions began to improve in the fourth quarter of 2003 and continued to
strengthen in the first half of 2004, which resulted in an increase in the volume of products we
sold in 2004 when compared to 2003. Although industry conditions weakened again in the second half
of 2004, our net sales for the year increased across all our product lines compared to 2003. Net
sales of test handlers, representing 56% of total net sales, were $15.7 million in 2004, an
increase of 115% compared

20

Table of Contents   

to 2003. Net sales of reliability test equipment, representing 21% of total net sales, were
$5.7 million in 2004, an increase of approximately 100% over 2003. Net sales of semiconductor
automation equipment, representing 6% of total net sales, were $1.6 million in 2004, an increase of
3% over 2003. Net sales of change kits and spare parts, representing 17% of total net sales, were
$4.8 million in 2004, an increase of $2.4 million or approximately 100% over 2003.

Gross Profit: 

Gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, was 49.3% of net sales in 2005 compared with 56.8%
in 2004 and 52.8% in 2003. Gross margins decreased in 2005 due to inefficiencies associated with
reduced production and revenue levels, a higher mix of discounted distributor sales compared with
the prior year, and relatively high material and distribution costs of early, limited volume
production runs of our Model 55V8 gravity feed test handlers. Gross margins improved in 2004
compared to 2003 primarily due to efficiencies realized from significantly higher production
volumes and revenue levels.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses: 

Selling, general and administrative, or SG A, expenses were $7.1 million in 2005 compared with
$8.7 million in 2004 and $6.4 million in 2003. Commissions expense decreased $1.0 million in 2005
due primarily to the significantly reduced net sales volume. Incentive compensation expense
decreased $0.5 million due primarily to the operating losses incurred in 2005. Amortization expense
related to intangible assets decreased $0.3 million in 2005 as certain intangibles became fully
amortized. SG A expenses increased by $2.3 million in 2004 compared with 2003. Commission expense
increased $1.1 million in 2004 due to significantly higher net sales volume and a higher mix of
commissionable foreign sales. Incentive compensation expense increased $0.5 million based on
profit levels achieved in 2004. Employee wages increased approximately $0.4 million compared with
the prior year primarily due to wage increases, including the reversal of wage reductions
implemented prior to 2004.

Research and Development Expenses: 

Research and development expenses were $3.1 million in 2005 compared with $3.6 million in 2004
and $2.6 million in 2003. The decrease in 2005 is attributed to a reduction of $0.4 million in
materials and third-party contractor service costs, primarily associated with the development of
our Model 55V8 gravity-feed test handler. Also, incentives expense decreased $0.1 million due to
the operating losses incurred in 2005. Research and development expenses increased $1.0 million in
2004 compared with 2003, including an increase of $0.6 million in third-party contractor service
costs related primarily to the development of our Model 55V8 gravity feed test handler. Incentive
compensation expense increased $0.1 million based on profit levels achieved in 2004. Wages
increased $0.1 million due to the reversal of wage reductions implemented prior to 2004, normal
wage increases and the addition of two engineering personnel during the year. As a percentage of
net sales, research and development expenses were 19.1%, 12.9%, and 18.8 in 2005, 2004, and 2003,
respectively. New product development is an essential part of our strategy to gain market share. We
expect to invest 12% to 15% of our revenues in research and development during profitable periods,
such as in 2004. However, we expect that our investment in research and development may exceed
these levels during periods of reduced revenues, as was the case in 2005 and 2003.

Interest Income, Net: 

Interest income, net, amounted to $140,000, $61,000, and $41,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. These amounts consisted primarily of interest income from the investment of excess
funds, partially offset by interest expense of approximately $11,000 related to a note payable to a
bank in each of

21

Table of Contents   

the years 2005 and 2004. Interest income increased in 2005 primarily due to increases in
interest rates during the year. Interest income increased in 2004 compared with 2003 due to higher
average cash balances and slightly higher interest rates.

Other (Expense), Net: 

In the second quarter of 2004, we settled a claim against a customer for past-due invoices for
products we had delivered plus charges related to a purchase order cancelled by the customer in
2001. We accepted shares of the customer s common stock with a market value of approximately
$233,000 in settlement of these claims. Of this amount, approximately $106,000 was applied to the
customer s past-due accounts receivable amounts owed to us. The remaining $127,000, related to
purchase order cancellation charges, was recorded as a gain in the second quarter of 2004. Prior to
December 31, 2004, we sold the shares for approximately $31,000 and realized a loss of
approximately $202,000 in the fourth quarter of 2004. The net effect of these transactions was a
net loss of $74,000, which is presented as  Other (expense), net  in our Consolidated Statement of
Operations.

Income Tax Expense (Benefit): 

We recorded an income tax benefit of $30,000 in 2005 related primarily to a refund received on
prior year taxes. In 2004, we recorded income tax expense of $52,000 on pre-tax income of $3.5
million, consisting primarily of the federal alternative minimum tax and certain state minimum
fees. Since 2000, we have maintained a valuation allowance to fully reserve our deferred tax
assets. We recorded the valuation allowance in 2000 because the cumulative losses we had incurred
over the previous three years made it questionable whether we would realize value from the deferred
tax assets. We continue to monitor the realizability of the benefits related to our net deferred
tax assets. To the extent we determine that the realization of some or all of these benefits is
more likely than not based upon expected future taxable income, a portion or all of the valuation
allowance will be reversed. Such a reversal would be recorded as an income tax benefit and, for
some portion related to deductions for stock option exercises, an increase in shareholders  equity.

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources: 

Cash and cash equivalents decreased by approximately $3.1 million in 2005 to $4.1 million at
December 31, 2005. We used $3.1 million to fund operating activities during the year. The major
components of cash flows used in operating activities were a net loss of $1.9 million, a $1.2
million increase in accounts receivable, a $0.4 million increase in inventories, and a $0.6 million
decrease in other accrued liabilities, partially offset by $0.8 million in non-cash depreciation
and amortization expense. Accounts receivable increased primarily because the timing of fourth
quarter shipments in 2005 was more concentrated in the latter part of the quarter as compared to
2004. Inventories increased primarily due to an increase in purchases in response to significantly
increased order activity in the fourth quarter of 2005. The decrease in other accrued liabilities
reflects primarily a reduction in the balance of outstanding customer advance payments since
December 31, 2004.

Cash and cash equivalents increased by approximately $3.2 million in 2004. We generated $2.9
million of cash from operating activities during the year. The major components of cash flows
generated from operating activities were net income of $3.4 million, $1.1 million in non-cash
depreciation and amortization expense, and an increase of $0.5 million in deferred revenue and
customer deposits. These sources of cash were partially offset by increases in accounts receivable
of $0.4 million and inventories of $1.9 million. Deferred revenue increased due to the receipt of
$0.3 million in progress payments related to shipped equipment that had not met revenue recognition
criteria at December 31, 2004 and customer deposits increased due to the receipt of a $0.1 million
deposit with a special equipment order from a new

22

Table of Contents   

customer. Inventories increased in 2004 due to increased production levels resulting from
higher business volumes. Accounts receivable increased because revenues in the fourth quarter of
2004 were approximately 23% higher than in the fourth quarter of 2003.

Cash and cash equivalents decreased by approximately $1.7 million in 2003. We used $1.5
million to fund operating activities during the year. The major components of cash flows used in
operating activities were a net loss of $1.6 million, a $1.7 million increase in accounts
receivable and a $1.0 million decrease in accrued liabilities partially offset by non-cash
depreciation and amortization expense of $1.1 million, a $0.6 million decrease in inventories, and
a $0.9 million increase in accounts payable. Accounts receivable increased primarily due to a 40%
increase in net sales in the fourth quarter of 2003 compared with the fourth quarter of 2002 and
also due to the timing of certain collections. Although we increased inventory purchases in
December 2003 to support increased order activity, inventory levels decreased throughout 2003 as we
continued inventory reduction initiatives first implemented in fiscal 2001. Accounts payable
increased primarily due to increased inventory purchases in the fourth quarter of 2003 as discussed
above. Accrued liabilities decreased primarily due to a reduction in deferred revenue associated
with two equipment sales for which a total of $0.6 million in progress payments was received prior
to December 31, 2002 and revenue was recognized in 2003 upon final acceptance of the equipment.

Our use of cash in investing activities in 2005, 2004, and 2003 related primarily to
expenditures for equipment, which amounted to $0.1 million, $0.2 million, and $0.2 million,
respectively. The capital expenditures in 2004 and 2003 were primarily related to upgrading our
data processing capabilities at both our North St. Paul, Minnesota and Dallas, Texas manufacturing
facilities. In 2004, we received approximately $31,000 in cash from the sale of marketable
securities originally received in a claim settlement.

Net cash generated from financing activities was not significant in 2005 and 2003. In 2004,
we generated $0.5 million from financing activities. We received approximately $0.4 million in
cash from the exercise of employee stock options and $0.2 million in long-term bank financing
related to certain data processing equipment purchases.

Historically we have supported our capital expenditure and working capital needs with cash
generated from operations and our existing cash and cash equivalents. We believe our cash and cash
equivalents of $4.1 million at December 31, 2005 will be sufficient to meet capital expenditure and
working capital needs at least through 2006. In addition, we have a revolving credit line agreement
with a bank that provides for borrowings up to the lesser of $2.0 million or 90% of eligible
accounts receivable plus 75% of eligible inventories. The credit agreement expires in October
2006. We believe we will be able to extend the agreement at that time or obtain similar financing,
if needed. However, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available with terms
favorable to us or at all. Furthermore, if the improved industry conditions and increased business
activity we experienced in late 2005 prove to be unsustainable and/or other factors,
including future industry cycles, negatively impact the demand for our products, future cash flows
could be adversely affected. Also, we may acquire other companies, product lines or technologies
that are complementary to our business, and our working capital needs may change as a result of
such acquisitions.

23

Table of Contents   

Our significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 and the effect such
obligations are expected to have on our cash flows in future periods are summarized below (in
thousands):

The above minimum operating lease payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease
rentals of $0.3 million due in the future under noncancellable subleases. Also, the minimum
operating lease payments in the table above do not include a lease agreement we executed in
February 2006 on our North St. Paul, Minnesota facility, which provides for monthly base rents of
$23,333 with 2% annual increases through February 2011. Purchase order commitments are related
primarily to inventory purchases in the ordinary course of business.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (Revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS 123R). SFAS 123R
addresses all forms of share-based payment awards, including shares issued under employee stock
purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. The standard
generally requires companies to expense share-based payment awards with compensation cost for
share-based payment transactions measured at fair value. Aetrium will be required to adopt the
standard in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, which will result in a
charge to our operations for all existing unvested stock options and any new stock option grants
over their vesting periods. We expect that compensation expense related to unvested stock options
at December 31, 2005 will amount to less than $25,000 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 and
less than $50,000 for the full fiscal year (excluding any potential income tax benefits and the
potential impact of future grants).

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. 

Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our short-term investment of excess
funds which, as of December 31, 2005, consisted primarily of money market funds and bank
certificates of deposit with original maturities of less than three months. Given the short
duration of our investments and the size of our investment portfolio, we do not believe a change in
interest rates would have a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations.
We generally conduct business in U.S. dollars and, therefore, risks associated with changes in
foreign currency rates are insignificant.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. 

The information required by this Item is included in our Consolidated Financial Statements and
the report of our independent registered public accounting firm, which are included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K beginning on page F-1. The index to this report and the financial statements
is included in Item 15(a)(1) below.

ITEM 9.  
       
      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.  

None.

24

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. 

Our President and Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Administrative Officer and our Treasurer
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of December
31, 2005. Based on their evaluation, they concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures
were effective and designed to give reasonable assurance that the information required to be
disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act was made known to them by
others and was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
SEC rules and forms. There was no change in our internal controls that occurred during the fourth
fiscal quarter in the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION. 

None.

25

Table of Contents   

PART III 

ITEM 10.  
       
      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.  

Directors of the Registrant 

The information under the captions  Election of Directors   Information About Nominees, 
 Election of Directors   Other Information About Nominees  and  Election of Directors Additional
Information About the Board and Its Committees  in our 2006 Proxy Statement is incorporated in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference.

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The information under the caption  Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Registrant  located
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference.

Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act 

The information under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in
our 2006 Proxy Statement is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference.

Identification of Audit Committee; Audit Committee Financial Expert 

The information under the caption  Executive Compensation and Other Benefits   Audit Committee
Report   Membership and Role of the Audit Committee  in our 2006 Proxy Statement is incorporated in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference.

Code of Ethics 

The information under the caption  Code of Ethics  in our 2006 Proxy Statement is incorporated
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. 

The information under the captions  Election of Directors   Compensation of Directors  and
 Executive Compensation and Other Benefits  in our 2006 Proxy Statement is incorporated in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference.

ITEM 12.  
       
      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.  

The information under the captions  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management  and  Executive Compensation and Other Benefits Securities Authorized for Issuance Under
Equity Compensation Plans  in our 2006 Proxy Statement is incorporated in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS. 

The information under the caption  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  in our 2006
Proxy Statement is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference.

26

Table of Contents   

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES. 

The information concerning principal accountant fees and services and the audit committee s
pre-approval polices and procedures under the captions  Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm Audit and Non-Audit Fees  and  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Pre-approval
Policies and Procedures  in our 2006 Proxy Statement is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form
10-K by reference.

27

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a) 1. Financial Statements of Registrant. 

The following Consolidated Financial Statements of Aetrium and the Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm s Report thereon are included herein:

Description 
       
     Page(s) 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

F-1 

Consolidated Financial Statements:

Consolidated Statements of Operations 

F-2 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

F-3 

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity 

F-4 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

F-5 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-6   F-17 

(a) 2. Financial Statement Schedule of Registrant. 

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

S-1 

All other schedules are omitted as the required information is inapplicable or the information
is presented in the financial statements or related notes.

(a) 3. Exhibits. 

The exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K are listed in the Exhibit Index beginning on
page E-1 of this Annual Report on  Form
10-K. 

If you were one of our shareholders on March 31, 2006 and you want a copy of any of the
exhibits listed or referred to in the Exhibit Index, we will furnish it to you at a reasonable cost
upon your written request sent to Aetrium Incorporated, 2350 Helen Street, North St. Paul,
Minnesota 55109, Attn.: Shareholder Relations. 

The following is a list of each management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement we are
required to file as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(b):

28

Table of Contents   

29

Table of Contents   

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF REGISTRANT 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Aetrium Incorporated

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item
15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Aetrium Incorporated
and its subsidiaries ( the Company ) at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005,
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In
addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with
the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota 
March 24, 2006

F-1

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 

Consolidated Statements of Operations 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 

F-2

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 

F-3

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 

F-4

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 

F-5

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

NOTE 1: BUSINESS DESCRIPTION 

Aetrium Incorporated designs, manufactures and markets a variety of electromechanical equipment
used by the semiconductor industry to handle and test integrated circuits, or ICs, and discrete
electronic devices. References in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements to  Aetrium, 
 the company,   we  or  our,  unless the context otherwise requires, refer to Aetrium Incorporated
and its consolidated subsidiaries and their respective predecessors.

NOTE 2: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Basis of Presentation:  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Aetrium
Incorporated and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have
been eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates:  The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash Equivalents:  Cash equivalents include highly liquid investments purchased with an original
maturity of three months or less.

Marketable Securities:  Marketable securities are classified as short-term or long-term in our
balance sheet based on their maturity date and expectations regarding sales. Available-for-sale
securities are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported as a separate
component of shareholders  equity until realized. Fair value is determined using quoted market
prices. The carrying amounts of securities used to compute unrealized gains and losses and the cost
of securities used to compute realized gains and losses are determined by specific identification.
At December 31, 2005 and 2004 we had no marketable securities.

Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts:  Trade accounts receivable are recorded at
the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. The allowance for doubtful accounts is our best
estimate of losses that may result from the uncollectibility of accounts receivable. We determine
the allowance based primarily on an analysis of individual accounts. We also evaluate the
collectibility of our accounts receivable in the aggregate based on factors such as the aging of
receivable amounts, customer concentrations, historical experience, and current economic trends and
conditions. Account balances are charged off against the allowance when we feel it is probable the
receivable will not be recovered. We do not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to
our customers.

Inventories:  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a
first-in, first-out basis.

Property and Equipment:  Furniture, fixtures and equipment are recorded at cost and are depreciated
using the double declining balance method over estimated useful lives ranging from three to seven
years. When assets are retired or disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are removed
from the accounts. Depreciation expense was approximately $0.2 million for each of the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.

Other Intangible Assets:  Identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of acquired
technology, are capitalized at their respective fair values, which are generally determined using
discounted future cash

F-6

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

flow techniques and assumptions appropriate to each situation. Such intangibles are amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of seven to fifteen years.

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets:  Aetrium reviews its identifiable intangible and other long-lived
assets for impairment whenever an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying
value of an asset may not be recoverable. If such an event or change in circumstances occurs and
potential impairment is indicated because the carrying values exceed the estimated future
undiscounted cash flows, Aetrium would measure the impairment loss as the amount by which the
carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value.

Revenue Recognition:  Aetrium s policy is to recognize revenue on product sales upon shipment if
contractual obligations have been substantially met, collection of the proceeds is assessed as
being reasonably assured, and title and risk of loss have passed to the customer, which is
generally the case for sales of spare parts, accessories, change kits and some equipment and
equipment upgrades. In instances where title does not pass upon shipment, revenue is recognized
upon delivery or customer acceptance based upon the terms of the sales agreement. In instances
where equipment or equipment upgrade sales contracts include significant post-shipment obligations
to be performed by Aetrium, revenue for the entire transaction is deferred until such obligations
have been completed or, if applicable, the transaction is accounted for as a multiple-element
arrangement. In instances where contractual terms can only be satisfied after shipment, such as
meeting customer-specified acceptance requirements at the customer s site, revenue is not
recognized until there is objective evidence that the applicable contract terms have been met. In
situations where equipment is shipped but revenue and the related receivable are not recognized,
the cost of the equipment is included in inventories in our consolidated balance sheet. We often
receive payments from customers prior to recognizing revenue. For example, we may receive partial
payments prior to shipment, which we record as  customer deposits  or we may receive partial
payments after shipment but prior to recognizing revenue, which we record as  deferred revenue. 
Customer deposits and deferred revenue are recorded as liabilities and included as a component of
 other accrued liabilities  in our consolidated balance sheet. See also Notes 7 and 8.

Warranty Costs:  Estimated warranty costs are accrued in the period that the related revenue is
recognized. The following table summarizes product warranty liability accruals and settlements for
the three years ended December 31, 2005 (in thousands):

There were no significant changes in estimated warranty accruals for any of the prior years
presented.

Research and Development:  Research and development expenditures, which include software development
costs, are expensed as incurred. SFAS No. 86,  Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be
Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed,  requires the capitalization of certain software development
costs once technological feasibility is established, which we define as the completion of a working
model. To date, the period between achieving technological feasibility and the general
availability of such software that is embedded in our equipment has been short and software
development costs qualifying for capitalization have been insignificant. Accordingly, we have not
capitalized any software development costs.

Income Taxes:  Income taxes are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for
Income Taxes.  Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences and tax
credit

F-7

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

carryforwards and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is
more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, or
the application of SFAS 109 does not permit management to conclude thereunder that it is more
likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized.

Income (Loss) Per Common Share:  Basic income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net
income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during each period.
Diluted income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of
common shares and common equivalent shares outstanding during each period. Common equivalent shares
include stock options using the treasury stock method. For loss periods, the computation of diluted
loss per share excludes the impact of stock options because they would be antidilutive and diluted
loss per share is therefore the same as basic loss per share. A reconciliation of the number of
shares used in the computations of basic and diluted income (loss) per share follows (in
thousands):

For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2003, all stock options are excluded from the loss
per share computations because they would be antidilutive. As of December 31, 2005 and 2003,
respectively, there were 1,737,827 and 1,895,299 outstanding stock options that could have
potentially impacted diluted earnings per share. For the year ended December 31, 2004, options to
purchase 260,938 common shares are excluded from the diluted computation because their exercise
prices exceeded the average market value of our common stock and they would therefore be
antidilutive to earnings per share.

Stock-Based Employee Compensation:  Aetrium accounts for its stock incentive plans under the
recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,  and related Interpretations. No stock-based compensation cost is reflected in our
consolidated statements of operations, as all options granted to employees and directors under our
plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of
grant and all options vest based only upon continuing employment. Effective January 1, 2006, as
described in Note 3, we will adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123
(Revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  (SFAS 123R), which will require us to record stock-based
compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations beginning in our quarter ended
March 31, 2006.

On May 25, 2005, the Compensation Committee of our board of directors accelerated the vesting of
453,832 unvested and  out-of-the-money  stock options held by employees with exercise prices
ranging from $2.76 to $4.81 per share. The options would have otherwise vested over various
periods through September 2008. On June 2, 2005, our board of directors accelerated the vesting of
22,500 unvested and  out-of-the-money  stock options held by each of our three independent
directors with exercise prices of $2.76 per share. The options would have otherwise vested through
December 2007. Our board of directors and its Compensation Committee determined that the
acceleration of the vesting of the stock options was in the best interests of the company to
enhance the incentive of the affected options and to provide us with greater flexibility for future
grants of share-based incentives as SFAS 123R becomes effective. The acceleration of vesting
enabled us to avoid recognizing compensation expense associated with these options in future
periods following the adoption of SFAS 123R in January 2006.

On August 17, 2005, the Compensation Committee of our board of directors granted stock options to
certain employees to purchase 278,000 shares of our common stock. Also on that date, our board of

F-8

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

directors granted options to each of our three independent directors to purchase 15,000 shares of
our common stock. All of the options provided for an exercise price of $3.125 per share, the fair
market value on the date of grant. All of the options were fully vested and exercisable on the date
of grant and will expire five years after the date of grant.

The following table illustrates the effect on net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share if
we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation ,   to stock-based compensation (in thousands, except per share amounts):

The pro forma stock-based employee compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2005
included approximately $753,000 resulting from the acceleration of the vesting of certain stock
options on May 25, 2005 and approximately $526,000 related to the fully vested stock options
granted on August 17, 2005 as described above. For the years ending December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, no income tax benefit was applied to the pro forma fair value expense calculated under SFAS
No. 123 due to the valuation allowance we have maintained on our deferred tax assets (see Note 14
for further discussion on income taxes). We expect that compensation expense related to unvested
stock options at December 31, 2005, which will be recorded in our consolidated statement of
operations when we adopt SFAS 123R in January 2006, will amount to less than $25,000 in the first
quarter of fiscal year 2006 and less than $50,000 for the full fiscal year (excluding any potential
income tax benefits and the potential impact of future grants).

Using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, the weighted-average fair value of options granted in
2005, 2004, and 2003 was $1.63, $2.46, and $1.31, respectively. Weighted average assumptions used
in applying the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of options granted
were as follows:

See Note 12 for additional information regarding Aetrium s stock option plans.

Comprehensive Income (Loss):  Aetrium currently has no amounts included in Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income. Accordingly, our comprehensive income (loss) is equal to our net income
(loss) for all periods presented.

F-9

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Repurchases of Common Stock:  Aetrium accounts for repurchased shares as retirements. The par value
of repurchased shares is charged to the common stock account and the excess of the purchase cost
over par value is charged to additional paid-in capital. We did not repurchase any of our
outstanding common stock during any of the periods presented.

NOTE 3: RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R
addresses all forms of share-based payment awards, including shares issued under employee stock
purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. The standard
generally requires companies to expense share-based payment awards with compensation cost for
share-based payment transactions measured at fair value. Aetrium will be required to adopt the
standard in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, which will result in a
charge to our operations for all existing unvested stock options and any new stock option grants
over their vesting periods. We expect that compensation expense related to unvested stock options
at December 31, 2005, which will be recorded in our consolidated statement of operations when we
adopt SFAS 123R in January 2006, will amount to less than $25,000 in the first quarter of fiscal
year 2006 and less than $50,000 for the full fiscal year (excluding any potential income tax
benefits and the potential impact of future grants).

NOTE 4: SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION 

Cash payments (refunds) for interest and income taxes were as follows (in thousands):

NOTE 5: IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Identifiable intangible assets are comprised of the following (in thousands):

Amortization expense related to identifiable intangible assets was as follows (in thousands):
2005   $536; 2004   $871; 2003   $884. Estimated amortization expense in future years is as
follows (in thousands): 2006   $202; 2007   $113; 2008   $28.

NOTE 6: OTHER (EXPENSE), NET 

In the second quarter of 2004, we settled a claim against a customer for past-due invoices for
products we had delivered plus charges related to a purchase order cancelled by the customer in
2001. We accepted shares of the customer s common stock with a market value of approximately
$233,000 in settlement of these claims. Of this amount, approximately $106,000 was applied to the
customer s past-due accounts receivable amounts owed to us. The remaining $127,000, related to
purchase order cancellation charges, was recorded as a gain in the second quarter of 2004. Prior to
December 31, 2004, we sold the shares for

F-10

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

approximately $31,000 and realized a loss of approximately $202,000 in the fourth quarter of 2004.
The net effect of these transactions was a net loss of $74,196, which is presented as  Other
(expense), net  in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.

NOTE 7: INVENTORIES 

A summary of the composition of inventories is as follows (in thousands):

NOTE 8: OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES: 

Other accrued liabilities are comprised of the following (in thousands):

NOTE 9: CREDIT AGREEMENT AND LONG-TERM DEBT 

On October 3, 2005, we entered into a revolving credit line agreement with a bank that provides for
borrowings up to the lesser of $2.0 million or 90% of eligible accounts receivable plus 75% of
eligible inventories and bears interest at the prime rate plus 0.25%. The agreement has a term of
one year, is collateralized by substantially all company assets and provides that Aetrium maintain
certain financial covenants. As of December 31, 2005, there were no borrowings under the line of
credit agreement and Aetrium was in compliance with all covenants under the agreement.

In 2004, we executed a note payable to a bank for $190,000, payable in monthly installments of
$3,637 through March 2009. The note is collateralized by certain data processing equipment with a
carrying value of approximately $111,000 at December 31, 2005, and bears interest at the prime rate
plus 1.5% with a minimum loan interest rate of 5.5% and maximum rate of 7.5%. The prime interest
rate was 7.25% at December 31, 2005. The loan balance at December 31, 2005 was $133,157. Future
maturities of long-term debt as of December 31, 2005 are as follows (in thousands):

NOTE 10: LEASE OBLIGATIONS 

As of December 31, 2005, we leased two adjacent buildings in North St. Paul, Minnesota from a
partnership controlled by a shareholder of Aetrium under two lease agreements. The shareholder is
neither a director nor officer of Aetrium, and, to our knowledge, does not own more than five
percent of our common stock. In 2001, we vacated one of the buildings in connection with a
restructuring of our

F-11

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

operations. Approximately two-thirds of this building was subleased to three unrelated parties
during most of the time since we vacated and our obligations related to this building ended in
February 2006 upon the expiration of the lease. We conduct our North St. Paul operations in the
second building and, as described below, we extended the lease on this building for an additional
five-year term in February 2006.

Aetrium leases a manufacturing facility in Dallas, Texas under a lease agreement that expires in
April 2008. The lease agreement provides us with an option to extend the term for an additional two
years.

In 2000, we vacated a leased facility in Poway, California. The lease expires in January 2010.
The lease was assigned to an unrelated company in 2000 and Aetrium continued to be contingently
liable under the lease if the assignee were to default. In January 2004, we were notified by the
lease assignee that it would be discontinuing operations. We negotiated a termination of the lease
assignment for a lump sum payment and the lease was re-assigned to Aetrium. As of December 31,
2005, this facility is subleased to three independent parties with the sublease agreements expiring
at various times between March and December 2006. We estimate that sublease income, including
scheduled sublease rent increases, will fully offset the remainder of our future lease obligations.
However, if one or more of our current subtenants were to default on their sublease agreements or
if we are unsuccessful in extending subleases or locating replacement subtenants upon the
expiration of current sublease agreements, we may have to record charges related to our future
obligations under this lease.

Rent expense related to the facility leases described above and various short-term equipment
operating leases was as follows (in thousands):

As of December 31, 2005, future minimum annual lease payments under operating leases were as
follows (in thousands):

The above minimum lease payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of $0.3
million due in the future under noncancellable subleases.

In February 2006, we entered into an agreement with a limited liability company controlled by the
same Aetrium shareholder described above to extend the lease of the building in which we conduct
our North St. Paul, Minnesota operations. The agreement provides for monthly base rents of $23,333
with 2% increases annually through the end of the lease. The agreement expires on February 28,
2011, at which time we have an option to extend the lease for an additional five-year term.

NOTE 11: RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

We purchase machined parts from two suppliers in which one of our executive officers has a minority
ownership interest. Purchases from these suppliers are at arm s length and amounted to a total of
$163,000, $210,000, and $237,000 in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

F-12

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

NOTE 12: STOCK OPTION PLANS 

Aetrium s 1993 Stock Incentive Plan (the 1993 Plan) terminated in June 2003. Stock options granted
under the 1993 Plan that were outstanding at the time the plan terminated may continue to be
exercised according to their individual terms. In May 2003, Aetrium s shareholders approved the
adoption of the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2003 Plan) to replace the 1993 Plan. Employees,
officers, directors, consultants and independent contractors providing services to us are eligible
to receive awards under the 2003 Plan. The number of shares available for issuance under the 2003
Plan is equal to 20% of the aggregate number of shares of common stock outstanding less the total
number of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise or conversion of any outstanding stock
options, warrants or other stock rights. Our 2003 Plan is administered by the Compensation
Committee of our board of directors and provides for the granting of: (a) stock options; (b) stock
appreciation rights; (c) restricted stock; (d) performance awards; and (e) stock awards valued in
whole or in part by reference to or otherwise based upon our stock. Options granted under the 2003
Plan may be incentive stock options or nonqualified stock options. To date, nonqualified stock
options are the only awards that we have granted under our 2003 Plan. The 2003 Plan will terminate
on February 28, 2013. Our stock incentive plans provide that the Compensation Committee may, at
its discretion, allow the exercise price of stock options to be paid, in whole or in part, by
tendering previously acquired shares that have been held by the option holder for at least six
months.

The following table summarizes activity under our stock incentive plans:

The following table summarizes information related to stock options outstanding at December
31, 2005, all of which are nonqualified options and expire five years after the grant date and of
which 616,415 options were fully exercisable when granted, 30,000 options became exercisable over
32 months from date of grant, 753,445 options were initially scheduled to become exercisable over
four years from date of grant and were subsequently modified to become fully exercisable on May 25,
2005 to the extent not then exercisable, and 337,967 options become exercisable over four years
from date of grant:

F-13

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

NOTE 13: EMPLOYEE SAVINGS 401(k) PLAN 

Aetrium has a 401(k) employee savings plan, which covers full-time employees who are at least 21
years of age. Our contributions to the savings plan, which are at the discretion of management. We
made no contributions to the plan in 2005 or 2003. We contributed $116,723 to the plan in 2004.

NOTE 14: INCOME TAXES 

Income tax expense (benefit) reported in our consolidated statement of operations is made up of the
following components (in thousands):

The federal income tax benefit in 2005 is related primarily to a refund received on prior year
taxes.

A reconciliation of income tax expense (benefit) computed using the federal statutory rate to the
income tax expense (benefit) reported in our consolidated statements of operations is as follows
(in thousands):

During 2005, we generated research tax credits and additional state NOL carryforwards due to
the extension of certain carryover periods in California.

F-14

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Deferred tax assets (liabilities) are comprised of the following (in thousands):

We carry the benefit we will derive in future accounting periods from tax losses and credits
and deductible temporary differences as  deferred tax assets  on our balance sheet. We carry a full
valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets because the cumulative losses we had incurred
over the previous three years made it questionable whether we would realize value from the deferred
tax assets. We assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets and the need for this valuation
allowance in accordance with SFAS No. 109. We expect to continue to maintain a full valuation
allowance until we determine that we can sustain a level of profitability that demonstrates our
ability to use these assets. To the extent we determine that the realization of some or all of
these benefits is more likely than not based upon expected future taxable income, a portion or all
of the valuation allowance will be reversed. Such a reversal would be recorded as an income tax
benefit and, for some portion related to deductions for stock option exercises, an increase in
shareholders  equity.

Approximately $0.3 million of the $25.6 million valuation allowance at December 31, 2005 is related
to deductions for exercised stock options (of which $0.2 million is related to options exercised in
2004), which would be recorded as an increase in shareholders  equity if the valuation allowance
were to be reversed in a future period.

Aetrium has federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $47 million that will begin
to expire in 2020 if not utilized. We also have state net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $18 million that will expire at various times, beginning in 2006, if not utilized. We
also have federal and state research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $1.3 million that
will expire at various times, beginning in 2013, if not utilized. The utilization of net operating
loss carryforwards and research tax credit carryforwards may be subject to annual limitations in
the event of future changes in ownership pursuant to the requirements of Section 382 of the
Internal Revenue Code. Such limitations could result in the expiration of net operating loss and
tax credit carryforwards before utilization.

F-15

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

NOTE 15: PRODUCT LINE, GEOGRAPHIC, SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER AND CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK DATA 

The following table sets forth the various components of net sales by product line as a percentage
of total sales:

All of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. Sales by geographic area based
on product shipment destination were as follows (in thousands):

Sales to customers comprising more than 10% of our total net sales were as follows:

* 
       
     Sales to customer were less than 10% of total net sales 

Accounts receivable from customers comprising more than 10% of our total accounts receivable were
as follows:

* 
       
     Accounts receivable from customer were less than 10% of total accounts
receivable. 

We sell our products principally to manufacturers of ICs and discrete electronic devices. Our
accounts receivable balance is concentrated with customers principally in one industry. We
regularly monitor the creditworthiness of our customers, however, in order to manage this
collection risk.

F-16

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

NOTE 16: QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) 

The following table sets forth quarterly financial data (in thousands, except per share data) for
the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004:

1. 
       
     Includes a $0.1 million gain on a claim settlement in the second quarter and a $0.2 million loss on the sale of marketable securities in the fourth
quarter. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

2. 
       
     The sum of the four quarterly per share amounts do not equal the calculation for the full year due to rounding. 

F-17

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

AETRIUM INCORPORATED  

Date:  March 31, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ Joseph C. Levesque

Joseph C. Levesque  

Chief Executive Officer and President
(principal executive officer)  

By:   
                                /s/ Paul H. Askegaard

Paul H. Askegaard  

Treasurer
(principal financial and accounting officer)  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below on March 31, 2006 by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated.

Signature 
       
     Title 

/s/ Joseph C. Levesque

Joseph C. Levesque

Chairman of the Board 

/s/ Darnell L. Boehm

Darnell L. Boehm

Director 

/s/ Terrence W. Glarner

Terrence W. Glarner

Director 

/s/ Andrew J. Greenshields

Andrew J. Greenshields

Director 

/s/ Douglas L. Hemer

Douglas L. Hemer

Director 

Table of Contents   

AETRIUM INCORPORATED 

EXHIBIT INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K 

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 

E-1

Table of Contents   

E-2

Table of Contents   

E-3

Table of Contents   

E-4

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II 

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

(1) 
       
     Deductions represent sales or disposals of reserved inventory. 

(2) 
       
     Amounts charged to other accounts represent the portion of the valuation allowance charged to
Additional Paid-In Capital for income tax benefits related to stock option exercises. 

S-1

<EX-10.24>
 2
 c03145exv10w24.htm
 COMMERCIAL LEASE

exv10w24 

Exhibit 10.24 

COMMERCIAL LEASE 

This Commercial Lease (this   Lease  ), dated February 24, 2006, by and between  Hub Management as
owner s agent for Kamko I, LLC, a Limited Liability Company , (  Landlord  ) and,  Aetrium
Incorporated, a Minnesota corporation  (  Tenant  ).

DEFINITIONS :

Premises     That certain real property located in the City of North St Paul, County of Ramsey,
State of Minnesota, legally described on  Exhibit A  attached hereto and incorporated herein.

Building     That certain Building located on the Premises, containing approximately 44,800 square
feet and commonly addressed as 2350 Helen Street, North St Paul, Minnesota, as shown on the site
plan of the Premises attached hereto as  Exhibit B .

In consideration for the Base Rent, Additional Rent and any additional compensation(s) outlined in
this Lease, Landlord leases to Tenant the Premises under the following conditions: 

1.0 TERM OF LEASE AND POSSESSION: 

Landlord gives and Tenant takes possession of Premises for the term (the   Term  ) of  five years 
beginning February 15, 2006 (the   Commencement Date  ) and ending February 28, 2011 (the   Expiration
Date  ), unless terminated earlier as conditioned.

Notwithstanding the earlier Commencement Date, Landlord will deliver possession of the Premises to
Tenant in the condition required by this Lease on or before the Delivery Date (as hereinafter
defined), but delivery of possession prior to or later than such Commencement Date will not affect
the Expiration Date of this Lease. The Base Rent (as hereinafter defined) and Additional Rent (as
hereinafter defined) will commence on the Commencement Date. Any occupancy by Tenant prior to the
Commencement Date commences all mutual terms and obligations of this Lease. Landlord will have no
responsibility or liability for loss or damage to fixtures, facilities or equipment installed or
left on the Premises. If Premises are not ready for occupancy by Commencement Date and possession
is delivered to Tenant later than Commencement Date, Base Rent and Additional Rent will begin on
date of possession.

1.1. OPTION TO RENEW: 

Provided (i) Tenant is not in default of any terms or conditions of this Lease, or would be
in default with the passage of time, the giving of notice, or both, and (ii) Tenant has
provided Landlord with written notice that Tenant is exercising its Option to Renew under
Section 1.2 of this Lease at least
90 days but not more than 270 days prior to the Expiration Date, then

-1-

Tenant may extend the
Term by five (5) years (the  Extension Term ) beginning immediately after the Expiration
Date, upon the same terms and conditions of the Lease, except that:

(i) 
       
     the Term will be modified as stated above; 

(ii) 
       
     the Option to Renew in this Article 1.2 will be deleted; 

(iii) 
       
     The Base Rent for each year of the Extension Term will be at ninety-five
percent (95%) of then Fair Rental Value (as hereinafter defined) for similarly situated
property.  Fair Rental Value  means the annual rent that a willing tenant would pay,
and a willing landlord would accept, in arms-length, bona fide negotiations, if the
Premises were leased to a single tenant for 5 years under a lease pursuant to which
such tenant would not receive (and, accordingly, the rental rate that otherwise would
be agreed to will be reduced to reflect the fact that Tenant will not receive) any
rental concession, such as rental abatements or  free rent  periods or rental
assumption, inducements or any leasehold improvement allowance, and otherwise taking
into account any other pertinent factors, including, but not limited to, the net
effective annual rates per square foot for office leases recently or then being entered
into in suburban Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota ( Comparable Rates  ). In
determining the Fair Rental Value and using Comparable Rates in connection with such
determination, the following factors (and any other factors then known to be pertinent)
will be considered: the size of the Premises; the length of the term; use; quality of
services provided; location and/or floor level; existing leasehold improvements;
leasehold improvements to be provided by Landlord, whether directly or by allowance;
the quality, age and location of the Building; financial strength of the applicable
tenant; rental concessions (such as rental abatements or  free rent  periods and rent
assumptions); inducements (such as signing bonuses, equity participation, tax benefits,
or other participation in ownership); the respective obligations of the Landlord and
the tenant, the manner in which the rents are then subject to escalation and the time
the particular rate under consideration became or will become effective. 

The Fair Rental Value will be determined as follows: Within 10 days after Landlord
receives notice from Tenant regarding Tenant s election to exercise the Extension
Option, Landlord will give notice to Tenant of its determination of the Fair Rental
Value of the Premises for each year of the Extension Term, and Landlord s
determination will constitute the Fair Rental Value unless Tenant objects in writing
within 10 days after Tenant s receipt of Landlord s determination. If Tenant so
objects, and the parties are unable to agree upon the Fair Rental Value within 20
days after the Tenant s objection, then by written notice to Landlord within 10 days
thereafter Tenant may request determination of the Fair Rental Value under this
Article. If Tenant does not give such notice requesting determination of Fair Rental
Value using the appraisal process described below, Tenant s exercise of the option
will be deemed rescinded. If determination by the appraisal process is requested by
Tenant, the Fair Rental Value will be determined by appraisal within 30 days after
Tenant s request by a board of appraisers consisting of three reputable real estate
professionals experienced in the leasing of commercial office/industrial space (each
an  Expert ). One
Expert will be appointed by Tenant, and the second Expert will be 

-2-

appointed by
Landlord. The third Expert will be appointed by the first two Experts. If the first
two Experts are unable to agree on a third Expert within 10 days after the
appointment of the second Expert, or if either party refuses or neglects to appoint
an Expert as herein provided within 10 days after the appointment of the first
Expert, then the third Expert or the second Expert, whose appointment was not made
as provided above, may be appointed by any judge of the Ramsey County District
Court. Any Expert appointed by a judge of the Ramsey County District Court will be a
reputable real estate appraiser experienced in appraising the rental value of
commercial office/industrial space, and will be a member of the American Institute
of Real Estate Appraisers with the designation of  MAI.  If determinations of at
least two of the Experts are identical in amount, that amount will be determined to
be the Fair Rental Value. If the determinations of all three Experts are different
in amount, the highest appraised value will be averaged with the middle value (that
average being referred to as  Sum A ). The lowest appraised value will be averaged
with the middle value (that average being referred to as  Sum B ), and the Fair
Rental Value will be determined as follows: (i) if neither Sum A nor Sum B differs
from the middle appraised value by more than 10% of the middle appraised value, then
the Fair Rental Value will be the average of the three appraisals, (ii) if either
Sum A or Sum B (but not both) differs from the middle appraised value by more than
10% of the middle appraised value, then the Fair Rental Value will be the average of
the middle appraised value and the appraised value closer in amount to the middle
appraised value, and (iii) if both Sum A and Sum B differ from the middle appraised
value by more than 10% of the middle appraised value, then the Fair Rental Value
will be equal to the middle appraised value. Written notice of the Fair Rental Value
as duly determined in accordance with this Article will be promptly given to
Landlord and Tenant and will be binding and conclusive on them. Each party will bear
its own expenses in connection with the board proceeding (including the Expert
appointed by it), and the fees of the third Expert will be borne equally. If, for
any reason, the Fair Rental Value has not been determined at the time of the
commencement of the Extension Option period, then the Fair Rental Value will be the
amount set forth in Landlord s determination, and if the determination of the
Experts as provided above indicates that a lesser or greater amount should have been
paid than that which was actually paid, a proper adjustment will be made in a
payment from Landlord to Tenant, or Tenant to Landlord, as the case may be.

2.0 BASE RENT: 

Tenant will pay to Landlord a monthly base rent (  Base Rent  ) on the first day of each month during
the Term of this Lease (provided that Base Rent for the first month will be prorated from and
payable on the Commencement Date) as follows:

February 15-
2006 - February 28, 2007   $23,333.00 
March 1, 2007        - February 28, 2008- $23,800.00

-3-

March 1,
2008   -   February 28, 2009   $24,276.00 
March 1, 2009   -   February 28, 2010   $24,762.00 
March 1, 2010   -   February 28, 2011   $25,256.00

3.0 ADDITIONAL RENT: 

Tenant will reimburse to Landlord monthly, on the same day that Base Rent is due, throughout the
Term of Lease and any extension of this Lease, the following additional rent (  Additional Rent  ):
any CAM (as defined in Article 3.1), Real Estate Taxes/Assessments (as defined in Article 3.2) and
Utilities (as defined in Article 3.3) not paid directly by Tenant, and any Miscellaneous Charges or
Reimbursements (as defined in Article 3.4).

3.1 COMMON AREA MAINTENANCE EXPENSES (CAM): 

Common Area Maintenance (  CAM  ) means Landlord s operating expenses to operate, maintain and
repair the Premises, including, but not be limited to maintenance, repair, replacement and
care of all lighting, plumbing, roofs, parking surfaces, landscaped areas, signs, snow
removal, non-structural repair and maintenance of the exterior of the Building, costs of
equipment purchased and used for such purposes, cleaning and cleaning supplies for the
common areas, insurance premiums, wages and fringe benefits of personnel employed for such
work. Additionally, during the term of this Lease, any extension and/or renewal of this
Lease, CAM expenses will include the annual cost or portion allocable to the Building of any
capital improvements made to the Building by Landlord which result in a reduction of
expenses or required under any governmental law or regulation that was not applicable at the
time it was constructed. Landlord may elect to amortize such costs over a reasonable time
period and at a reasonable rate of interest.

3.2 REAL ESTATE TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS: 

Real Estate Taxes and Assessments means all real estate taxes, all assessments and any taxes
in lieu thereof payable on each calendar year, which may be levied upon or assessed against
the Building. Real Estate Taxes and Assessments due during the term of this Lease will be
paid by Landlord when due and payable to the assessing authority. Landlord will bill Tenant
on the monthly rental invoice and provide a copy of the Real Estate Tax bill for Real Estate
Taxes and Assessments when due. Real Estate Taxes and Assessments due during the calendar
year of the date of expiration of this Lease will be prorated on a calendar year basis to
the date of expiration, and Tenant will pay any unpaid portion of such prorated amount to
Landlord. In the event the taxing authorities additionally include in such real estate and
assessments the value of any improvements made by Tenant, or of machinery, equipment,
fixtures, inventory or other personal property or assets of Tenant, then Tenant will pay all
the taxes attributable to such items. Landlord will furnish a copy of the real estate tax
statement to Tenant.

-4-

3.3 UTILITIES 

Landlord will provide mains and conduits to supply water, gas, electricity and sanitary
sewage to the Building. Tenant will pay, when due, all charges for sewer and water usage,
garbage/refuse disposal/removal and recycling, electricity, gas and other fuels,
telephone/communication services and/or other utility services or energy source furnished to
the Premises during the term of this Lease, or any extension and/or renewal of this Lease.
Landlord, at its election, may invoice for reimbursement(s) of any Utility usage not paid
directly by Tenant.

3.4 MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES AND REIMBURSEMENTS 

Miscellaneous Charges and Reimbursements includes, without limitation, service requests
facilitated by Landlord at the direction of Tenant, notes due Landlord and any other
miscellaneous charge due Landlord.

4.0 COVENANT TO PAY RENT: 

The covenants of Tenant to pay the Base Rent and the Additional Rent are each independent of any
other covenant, condition, provision or agreement contained in this Lease. All rents are due and
payable as invoiced on the first of the each month during the Term of Lease and any extensions of
the Lease to Landlord at:

Hub Management Company Inc 
3050 Echo Lake Avenue 
Mahtomedi, MN 55118

or such other address as Landlord designates to Tenant in writing. Each monthly installment of
Base Rent and Additional Rent will be paid without advance notice, demand, offset, or deduction.

5.0 OVERDUE PAYMENTS :

All Base Rent and Additional Rent under this Lease and the Extension Term (if applicable) will be
due on the first of each calendar month, unless otherwise specified. Service charges will be
imposed after the tenth of each calendar month in the amount five percent (5%) of the outstanding
balance due.

6.0 USE :

The Premises will be used and occupied by Tenant solely for office and light manufacturing purposes
and Tenant agrees that such use will be in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances and
governmental regulations affecting the Building and Premises. Tenant will immediately discontinue
any use of the Premises which is not in compliance with any applicable laws, ordinances or
governmental regulations. The Premises will not be used in such manner that, in accordance with
any requirement of law or of any public authority, Landlord will be obliged on account of the
purpose or manner of said use to make any addition or alteration
to or in the Building. The Premises will not be used in any manner which will increase the rates
required to be paid for public utility or for fire and extended coverage insurance covering the
Building. Tenant will occupy the Premises,

-5-

conduct its business and control its agents, employees,
invitees and visitors in such a way as is lawful, and reputable and will not permit or create any
nuisance, noise, odor, or otherwise interfere with, annoy or disturb any other tenant in the
Building in its normal business operations or Landlord in its management of the Building. Tenant s
use of the Premises will conform to all the Landlord s rules and regulations relating to the use of
the Building. Outside storage of any type of equipment, property or materials owned or used on the
Premises by Tenant or its customers and suppliers will not be permitted, unless otherwise stated.

7.0 CARE AND REPAIR OF PREMISES: 

Tenant will, at all times throughout the Term of Lease and any extensions, and at its sole expense,
keep and maintain the Premises in a clean, safe and sanitary condition and in compliance with all
applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules and regulations. Tenant s obligations hereunder will
include without limitation, the maintenance, repair, replacement, if necessary of all interior
walls, partitions, doors and windows, all exterior entrances, windows, doors and docks, the
replacement of all broken glass, of any fixture/equipment/component of heating, ventilation, air
conditioning (  HVAC  ) systems, all lighting systems, plumbing systems and electrical systems. In
the event that an HVAC rooftop unit or ceiling hung unit heater requires replacement, the cost of
such replacement will be shared between Landlord and Tenant, Tenant s share to be based on a ratio
of the time of occupancy to the nearest one-half year to the estimated useful life of the unit,
unless caused by the misuse or neglect of Tenant. Such estimations are fifteen (15) years for a
roof top unit and ten (10) years for a ceiling hung unit heater under normal conditions. With the
exception of HVAC equipment, when used in this provision, the term  repairs  will include
replacements, and all such repairs or replacements made by the Tenant will be of equal quality to
the original equipment or work. Tenant will keep and maintain all portions of the Premises and the
sidewalk, parking areas and areas adjoining the same in a clean and orderly condition, free of
accumulation of dirt, rubbish, snow and ice, regardless of any CAM performed by Landlord. Tenant
will maintain a minimum temperature in the Premises of 40 degrees during the Lease Term.

If Tenant fails, refuses or neglects to maintain or repair the Premises as required in this Lease
after notice has been given Tenant, in accordance with Article 16.0 of this Lease, Landlord may
make such repairs or replacements without liability to Landlord for any loss or damage that may
accrue to Tenant s merchandise, fixtures or other property or to Tenant s business by reason
thereof, and upon completion thereof, Tenant will pay to Landlord all costs plus 15% for overhead
incurred by Landlord in making such repairs or replacements.

Landlord will repair, at its expense, the structural portions of the Building, unless such repairs
are required as a result of the acts of Tenant, its employs, agents, assigns or invitees, in which
case the costs thereof will be borne by Tenant and payable by Tenant to Landlord.

8.0 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS :

Tenant will not (either with or without negligence) cause or permit the escape, disposal or release
of any biologically or chemically active or other hazardous substances, or materials. Tenant will
not allow the storage or use of such substances or materials in any manner not sanctioned by law or
by

-6-

the highest standards prevailing in the industry for the storage and use of such substances or
materials, nor allow to be brought into the Premises any such materials or substances except in the
ordinary course of Tenant s business, and then only after written notice is given to Landlord of
the identity of such substances or materials. Without limitation, hazardous substances and
materials includes those described in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980, as amended, 42 U.S.C. Section 9601 et seq., the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et seq., any applicable state or local laws and
the regulations adopted under these acts. If any lender or governmental agency ever requires to
ascertain whether or not there has been any release of hazardous materials, then the reasonable
costs thereof will be reimbursed by Tenant to Landlord upon demand as additional charges if such
requirement applies to the Premises. In addition, Tenant will execute affidavits, representations
and the like from time to time at Landlord s request concerning Tenant s best knowledge and belief
regarding the presence of hazardous substances or materials on the Premises. In all events, Tenant
will indemnify Landlord from any release of hazardous materials on the Premises occurring while
Tenant is in possession or elsewhere if caused by Tenant or persons acting under Tenant. The
within covenants will survive the expiration or earlier termination of the lease term.

9.0 PUBLIC LIABILITY INSURANCE :

Tenant will during the term hereof keep in full force and effect at its own expense a policy or
policies of public liability insurance with respect to the Premises and the business of Tenant, on
terms and with companies approved in writing by Landlord, in which both Tenant and Landlord are
covered by being named as insured parties under reasonable limits of liability not less than:
$500,000 for injury/death to any one person; $1,000,000 for injury/death to more than one person,
and $500,000 with respect to damage to property. Tenant will use its best efforts to cause 
 such policy or policies to provide that thirty (30) days written notice be given to Landlord
prior to cancellation thereof. Tenant will furnish evidence satisfactory to Landlord at the time
this Lease is executed that such coverage is in full force and effect.

10.0 SIGNAGE AND DISPLAYS: 

Upon occupancy, Tenant may install such building exterior signage and/or building monument signage
as are approved by Landlord, which installation will be at Tenant s sole cost and expense in
compliance with city ordinances and building signage criteria. Any changes, modifications and/or
maintenance of signage will be at Tenant s sole cost and expense with approval of Landlord.
Additional signage, lettering, picture, notice or advertisement installed on or in any part of the
Premises and visible from the exterior of the Building, or visible from the exterior of the
Premises, must be approved by Landlord at Tenant s sole cost and expense. Said signs are to be
maintained by Tenant at Tenant s expense. Landlord may remove any unauthorized signs without any
liability to Landlord and may charge the expense incurred by such removal to Tenant.

11.0 ALTERATIONS, INSTALLATION, FIXTURES: 

Unless otherwise stated, Tenant will not make any alterations, additions or improvements in or to
the Premises or add, disturb or in any way change any plumbing or wiring without the prior written
consent of the Landlord which approval will not be unreasonably withheld. Notwithstanding the

-7-

foregoing, Landlord agrees to consent to non-structural alterations or improvements costing less
than One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) in the aggregate, so long as all costs are
promptly paid by Tenant and Tenant obtains and provides Landlord with prior written notice and
copies of any required approvals, licenses, or permits and Tenant indemnifies Landlord against any
liens arising from such non-structural alteration or improvement. In the event alterations are
required by any governmental agency by reason of the use and occupancy of the Premises by Tenant,
Tenant will make such alterations at its own cost and expense after first obtaining Landlord s
written approval of plans and specifications and furnishing such indemnification as Landlord may
reasonably require against liens, costs, damages and expenses arising out of such alterations.
Tenant warrants to Landlord that all such alterations, additions, or improvements will be in strict
compliance with all relevant laws, ordinances, governmental regulations and insurance requirements.
Construction of such alterations or additions will commence only upon Tenant obtaining and
exhibiting to Landlord the requisite approvals, licenses and permits and indemnification against
liens. Unless otherwise agreed to, all alterations, installations, physical additions or
improvements to the Premises made by Tenant will at once become the property of Landlord and will
be surrendered to Landlord upon the termination of this Lease.

12.0 ACCESS TO PREMISES :

Tenant agrees to permit Landlord and the authorized representatives of Landlord to enter the
Premises at all times during usual business hours with reasonable advanced notice for the purpose
of inspecting the same and making any necessary repairs to the Premises and performing any work
therein that may be necessary to comply with any laws, ordinances, rules, regulations or
requirements of any public authority or of the Board of Fire Underwriters or any similar body or
that Landlord may deem necessary to prevent waste or deterioration in connection with the Premises.
Nothing herein will imply any duty upon the part of Landlord to do any such work which, under any
provision of this Lease, Tenant is required to perform and the performance thereof by Landlord will
not constitute a waiver of the Tenant s default to perform the same. Landlord may, during the
progress of any work in the Premises or Building, keep and store upon the Premises or Building all
necessary materials, tools, and equipment. Landlord will not in any event be liable for
inconvenience, annoyance, disturbance, loss of business, or other damage of the Tenant, nor will
Tenant s lease obligations be affected by reason of making repairs or the performance of any work,
including materials handling into or through the Premises or Building.

Landlord reserves the right to enter upon the Premises (a) at any time in the event of an
emergency, and (b) at reasonable hours and with reasonable advanced notice to exhibit the Premises
to prospective purchasers or others; and to exhibit the Premises to prospective tenants and to
display  For Rent  or similar signs on windows or doors in the Premises during the last one hundred
twenty (120) days of the term of this Lease, all without hindrance by Tenant.

13.0 REMOVAL OF FIXTURES :

Notwithstanding anything contained in Article 11.0, 17.0, or elsewhere in this Lease, if Landlord
requests then Tenant will promptly remove at the sole cost and expense of Tenant all fixtures,
equipment and alterations made by Tenant simultaneously with vacating the Premises and Tenant

-8-

will
promptly restore said Premises to the condition that existed immediately prior to said fixtures,
equipment and alterations having been made all at the sole cost and expense of Tenant.

14.0 ASSIGNMENT OR SUBLETTING :

Tenant agrees to use and occupy the Premises throughout the entire term hereof for the purpose
herein specified and for no other purposes, in the manner and to substantially the extent now
intended, and not to transfer or assign this Lease or sublet said Premises, or any part thereof,
whether by voluntary act, operation of law, or otherwise, without obtaining the prior consent of
Landlord in each instance. Except for an assignment to Tenant s Affiliate (as hereinafter
defined), Tenant must seek such consent of Landlord to any assignment or sublease of this Lease by
a written request therefor, setting forth such information as Landlord may deem necessary. For the
purposes of this Lease,  Tenant s Affiliate  means a corporation then owned or controlled by Tenant
with financial wherewithal and net worth acceptable in all respects to Landlord. Tenant agrees to
provide Landlord with prior written notice, a copy of any proposed assignment documentation and any
other information requested by Landlord regarding Tenant s Affiliate prior to a transfer to
Tenant s Affiliate. Landlord agrees not to withhold consent unreasonably. Consent by Landlord to
any assignment of this Lease or to any subletting of the Premises will not be a waiver of
Landlord s right under this Article as to any subsequent assignment or subletting. Landlord s
rights to assign this Lease are and will remain unqualified. No such assignment or subleasing will
relieve the Tenant from any of Tenant s obligations in this Lease contained, nor will any
assignment or sublease or other transfer of this Lease be effective unless the assignee, subtenant
or transferee at the time of such assignment, sublease or transfer, assumes in writing for the
benefit of Landlord, its successors or assigns, all of the terms, covenants, and conditions of this
Lease thereafter to be performed by Landlord and agrees in writing to be bound thereby. Should
Tenant sublease in accordance with the terms of this Lease, fifty (50%) of any increase in rental
received by Tenant over the per square foot rental rate which is being paid by Tenant will be
forwarded to and retained by Landlord, which increase will be in addition to the Base Rent and
Additional Rent due Landlord under this Lease.

15.0 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS :

The terms, covenants and conditions hereof will be binding upon and inure to the successors and
assigns of the parties hereto.

16.0 NOTICES :

Any notice required or permitted under this Lease will be deemed sufficiently given or secured if
sent by registered or certified return receipt mail or national courier service to Tenant at 2350
Helen Street, North St. Paul, Minnesota 55109, and to Landlord at the address then fixed for the
payment of rent as provided in Article 4.0 of this Lease and either party may by like written
notice at any time designate a different address to which notices will subsequently be sent or rent
to be paid.

17.0 SURRENDER :

On the Expiration Date or upon the termination hereof upon a day other than the Expiration Date,
Tenant will peaceably surrender the Premises in good order, condition and repair (reasonable wear

-9-

and tear only excepted); in broom clean condition; office/restroom area vacuumed and cleaned. On
or before the Expiration Date or upon termination of this Lease on a day other than the Expiration
Date, Tenant will, at its expense, remove all trade fixtures, personal property and equipment and
signs from the Premises and any property not removed will be deemed to have been abandoned. Any
damage caused in the removal of such items will be repaired by Tenant and at its expense. All
alterations, additions, improvements and fixtures (other than trade fixtures) which have been made
or installed by Landlord or Tenant upon the Premises and all floor covering so installed will
remain upon and be surrendered with the Premises as a part thereof, without disturbance,
molestation or injury, and without charge, at the expiration or termination of this Lease. If the
Premises are not surrendered on the Expiration Date or the date of termination, Tenant will
indemnify Landlord against loss or liability, claims, without limitation, made by any succeeding
tenant founded on such delay. Tenant will promptly surrender all keys for the Premises to Landlord
at the place then fixed for payment of rent and will inform Landlord of combinations of any locks
and safes on the Premises.

18.0 HOLDING OVER :

In the event of a holding over by Tenant after expiration or termination of this Lease without the
consent in writing of Landlord, Tenant will be deemed a Tenant at sufferance and will pay rent for
such occupancy at the rate of one and one-half times the last-current aggregate Base Rent and
Additional Rent, prorated for the entire holding over period, plus all reasonable attorney s fees
and expenses incurred by Landlord in enforcing its rights hereunder, plus any other damages
occasioned by such holding over. Except as otherwise agreed, any holding over with the written
consent of Landlord will constitute Tenant a month-to-month lease.

19.0 ABANDONMENT :

In the event Tenant removes its fixtures, equipment or machinery or vacates the Premises or any
part thereof prior to the Expiration Date of this Lease, or discontinues or suspends the operation
of its business conducted on the Premises for a period of more than one hundred twenty (120)
consecutive days (except during any time when the Premises may be rendered untenable by reason of
fire or other casualty), then in any such event Tenant will be deemed to have abandoned the
Premises and Tenant will be in default under the terms of this Lease.

20.0 DEFAULT OF TENANT :

a. 
       
     In the event of any failure of Tenant to pay any rental due hereunder within ten (10) days
after the same becomes due, or any failure to perform any other terms, conditions or covenants
of this Lease to be observed or performed by Tenant for more than ten (10) days after written
notice of such failure has been given to Tenant, or if Tenant or an agent of Tenant falsifies
any report required to
be furnished to Landlord pursuant to the terms of this Lease, or if Tenant or any guarantor
of this Lease becomes bankrupt or insolvent, or file any debtor proceedings or any person
takes or has against Tenant or any guarantor of this Lease in any court pursuant to any
statute either of the United States or of any state a petition in bankruptcy or insolvency
or for reorganization or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee of all or a portion of
Tenant s or any such guarantor s property, or if Tenant or any such 

-10-

guarantor s property, or
if Tenant or any such guarantor makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or
petitions for or enters into an arrangement with its creditors, or if Tenant abandons the
Premises or suffer this Lease to be taken under any writ of execution, then in any such
event Tenant will be in default hereunder, and Landlord, in addition to other rights of
remedies it may have, will have the immediate right of re-entry and may remove all persons
and property from the Premises and such property may be removed and stored in a public
warehouse or elsewhere at the cost of, and for the account of Tenant, without being guilty
of trespass, or becoming liable for any loss or damage which may be occasioned thereby. 

b. 
       
     Should Landlord elect to re-enter the Premises, as herein provided, or should it take
possession of the Premises pursuant to legal proceedings or pursuant to any notice provided
for by law, it may either terminate this Lease or it may from time to time, without
terminating this Lease, make such alterations and repairs as may be necessary in order to
re-let the Premises, and re-let the Premises or any part thereof for such term or terms (which
may be for a term extending beyond the term of this Lease) and at such rental or rentals and
upon such other terms and conditions as Landlord in its sole discretion may deem advisable.
Upon each such subletting all rentals received by the Landlord from such re-letting will be
applied first to the payment of any indebtedness other than rent due hereunder from Tenant to
Landlord; second, to the payment of any costs and expenses of such re-letting, including
brokerage fees and attorney s fees and costs of such alterations and repairs; third, to the
payment of the rent due and unpaid hereunder, and the residue, if any will be held by Landlord
and applied in payment of future rent as the same may become due and payable hereunder. If
such rentals received from such re-letting during any month be less than that to be paid
during that month by Tenant hereunder, Tenant, upon demand, will pay any such deficiency to
Landlord. No such re-entry or taking possession of the Premises by Landlord will be construed
as an election on its part to terminate this Lease unless a written notice of such intention
be given to Tenant or unless the termination thereof be decreed by a court of competent
jurisdiction. Notwithstanding any such re-letting without termination, Landlord may at any
time after such re-entry and re-letting elect to terminate this Lease for such previous
breach. Should Landlord at any time terminate this Lease for any such breach, in addition to
any other remedies it may have, it may recover from Tenant all damages it may incur by reason
of such breach, including the cost of recovering the Premises, attorney s fees, and costs, the
unamortized portion of any leasehold improvements made by Landlord for Tenant and including
the worth at the time of such termination of the excess, if any, of the amount of rent and
charges equivalent to rent reserved in this Lease for the remainder of the stated term over
the then reasonable rental value of the Premises for the remainder of the stated term, all of
which amounts will be immediately due and payable from Tenant to Landlord. 

c. 
       
     Landlord may, at its option, instead of exercising any other rights or remedies available to
it in this Lease or otherwise by law, statute or equity, spend such money as is reasonably
necessary to cure any default of Tenant herein and the amount so spent, and costs incurred,
including attorney s fees in curing such default, will be paid by Tenant, as additional rent,
upon demand. 

-11-

d. 
       
     In the event suit is brought for recovery of possession of the Premises, for the recovery of
rent or any other amount due under the provisions of this Lease, or because of the breach of
any other covenant herein contained on the part of the Tenant to be kept or performed, and a
breach is established, Tenant will pay to Landlord all reasonable expenses incurred therefor,
including attorney s fees and costs. 

e. 
       
     Tenant waives any demand for possession of the Premises, and any demand for payment of rent
and any notice of intent to re-enter the Premises, or of intent to terminate this Lease, other
than the notices above provided in this Article, and any other notice or demand prescribed by
any applicable statutes or laws. 

f. 
       
     No remedy herein or elsewhere in this Lease or otherwise by law, statute or equity, conferred
upon or reserved to Landlord or Tenant will be exclusive of any other remedy, but will be
cumulative, and may be exercised from time to time and as often as the occasion may arise. 

21.0 EMINENT DOMAIN :

In the event of any eminent domain of condemnation proceeding or private sale in lieu thereof in
respect to the Building during the term thereof, the following provisions will apply:

a. 
       
     If the whole of the Premises are acquired or condemned by eminent domain for any public or
quasi-public purpose, the term of this Lease will cease and terminate as of the date
possession is taken in such proceedings and all rentals will be paid up to that date. 

b. 
       
     If any part constituting less than the whole of the Premises is acquired or condemned as
aforesaid, and in the event that such partial taking or condemnation materially affects the
Premises so as to render the Premises unsuitable for the business of the Tenant, in the
reasonable opinion of Landlord, then the term of this Lease will cease and terminate as of the
date possession is taken by the condemning authority and rent will be paid to the date of such
termination. In the event of a partial taking or condemnation of the Premises which does not
materially affect the Premises so as to render the Premises unsuitable for the business of the
Tenant, in the opinion of the Landlord, this Lease will continue in full force and effect with
a proportionate abatement of the Base Rent and Additional Rent based on the portion, if any of
the Premises taken. Landlord reserves the right, at its option, to restore the Building and
the Premises to substantially the same condition as they were prior to such condemnation. In
such event, Landlord will give written notice to Tenant, within thirty (30) days following the
date possession is taken by the condemning authority, of Landlord s intention to restore.
Upon Landlord s notice of election to restore, Landlord will commence restoration and will
restore the Building and the Premises with reasonable promptness, subject to
delays beyond Landlord s control and delays in the making of condemnation or sale proceeds
adjustments by Landlord; and Tenant will have no right to terminate this Lease except as
herein provided. Upon completion of such restoration, the rent will be adjusted based upon
the portion, if any, of the Premises restored. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event
that twenty percent (20%) or more of the floor area of the Building or twenty percent (20%)
or more of the parking areas are so taken, then Landlord and Tenant will each have the right
to terminate 

-12-

this Lease by giving written notice thereof to the other within thirty (30)
days following the date possession is taken by the condemning authority. 

c. 
       
     In the event of any condemnation or taking as a foresaid, whether whole or partial, the
Tenant will not be entitled to any part of the award paid for such condemnation and Landlord
is to receive the full amount of such award, the Tenant hereby expressly waiving any right to
claim to any part thereof. 

d. 
       
     Although all damages in the event of any condemnation will belong to the Landlord whether
such damages are awarded as compensation for diminution in value of the leasehold or to the
fee of the Premises, Tenant will have the right to claim and recover from the condemning
authority, but not from Landlord, such compensation as may be separately awarded or
recoverable by Tenant in Tenant s own right on account of any and all damage to Tenant s
business by reason of the condemnation and for or on account of any cost or loss to which
Tenant might be put in removing Tenant s merchandise, furniture, fixtures, leasehold
improvements and equipment. However, Tenant will have no claim against Landlord or make any
claim with the condemning authority for the loss of its leasehold estate, any unexpired term
or loss of any possible renewal or extension of said lease or loss of any possible value of
said lease, any unexpired term, renewal or extension of said lease. 

22.0 RULES AND REGULATIONS :

Tenant will observe and comply with such further reasonable rules and regulations as Landlord may
prescribe, on written notice to Tenant for the safety, care and cleanliness of the Building.

23.0 DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION :

In the event of any damage or destruction to the Premises by fire or other cause during the term
hereof, the following provisions will apply:

a. 
       
     If the Building is damaged by fire or any other cause to such extent that the cost of
restoration, as estimated by Landlord, will equal or exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the
replacement value of the Building (exclusive of foundations) just prior to the occurrence of
the damage, then Landlord may, not later than the thirtieth (30th) day following the damage,
give Tenant written notice of Landlord s election to terminate this Lease. 

b. 
       
     If the cost of restoration as estimated by Landlord will equal or exceed twenty-five percent
(25%) of said replacement value of the Building and if the Premises are not suitable as a
result of said damage for the purposes for which they are demised hereunder, in the reasonable
opinion of Landlord, then Tenant may, no later than the thirtieth (30th) day following the
damage, give Landlord a written notice of election to terminate this Lease. 

c. 
       
     If the cost of restoration as estimated by Landlord amounts to less than twenty-five percent
(25%) of said replacement value of the Building, or if, despite the cost, neither Landlord nor
Tenant elects to terminate this Lease, Landlord will restore the Building and the Premises
with reasonable promptness, subject to delays beyond Landlord s control and delays in the 

-13-

making of insurance adjustments by Landlord; and Tenant will have no right to terminate this
Lease except as herein provided. Landlord will not be responsible for restoring or repairing
leasehold improvements of the Tenant. 

d. 
       
     In the event of either of the elections to terminate, this Lease will be deemed to terminate
on the date of the receipt of the notice of election and all rentals will be paid up to that
date. Tenant will have no claim against Landlord for the value of any unexpired term of this
Lease. 

e. 
       
     In any case where damage to the Building materially affects the Premises so as to render them
unsuitable in whole or in part for the purposes for which they are demised hereunder, then,
unless such destruction was wholly or partially caused by the negligence or breach of the
terms of this Lease by Tenant, its employees, contractors or licensees, a portion of the rent
based upon the amount of the extent to which the Premises are rendered unsuitable will be
abated until repaired or restored. If the destruction or damage was wholly or partially
caused by negligence or breach of the terms of this Lease by Tenant as aforesaid and if
Landlord elects to rebuild, the rent will not abate and the Tenant will remain liable for the
same. 

24.0 CASUALTY INSURANCE :

a. 
       
     Tenant will at all times during the term of this Lease, at its expense, maintain a policy or
policies of insurance with premiums paid in advance issued by an insurance company licensed to
do business in the State of Minnesota insuring the Building against loss or damage by fire,
explosion or other insurable hazards and contingencies for the full replacement value. All
insurance policies and renewals thereof required herein will (i) contain a loss payee and
standard mortgage clause in favor of and in form acceptable to Landlord; and (ii) have an
 agreed amount  endorsement or otherwise exclude co-insurance participation by the insured.
Tenant will use its best efforts to cause such policy or policies to provide that thirty (30)
days written notice be given to Landlord prior to cancellation thereof, and such policies will
otherwise be reasonably satisfactory to Landlord in all other respects. Tenant will deliver to
the Landlord s mortgagee copies of such policies satisfactory to the mortgagee evidencing the
property insurance which is required herein. If Landlord s mortgagee should require additional
insurance coverage than that required herein, Tenant will procure such insurance at its own
expense. Tenant will promptly furnish copies of all renewal notices received by it. At least
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of a required policy,
Tenant will deliver to Landlord a copy of a renewal policy in form satisfactory to Landlord.
Landlord may from time to time, but not more often than every three (3) years, require an
insurance appraisal, reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, confirming the replacement cost of
the insured property. If Tenant has a blanket insurance policy in force providing coverage
for several properties of Tenant, including the subject Premises, Landlord will accept a
certificate of such insurance together with a copy of such blanket insurance policy;
provided the certificate sets forth the amounts of insurance and coverage, and such amounts
are at least equal to the amounts required hereinabove, and otherwise complies with the
requirements hereof. 

-14-

b. 
       
     Tenant will not carry any stock of goods or do anything in or about the Premises which will
in any way impair or invalidate the obligation of the insurer under any policy of insurance
required by this Lease. 

c. 
       
     Landlord hereby waives and releases all claims, liabilities and causes of action against
Tenant and its agents, servants and employees for loss of damage to, or destruction of, the
Premises or any portion thereof, including the buildings and other improvements situated
thereon, resulting from fire, explosion or the other perils included in standard extended
coverage insurance, whether caused by the negligence of any of said persons or otherwise.
Likewise, Tenant hereby waives and releases all claims, liabilities and causes of action
against Landlord and its agents, servants and employees for loss of damage to, or destruction
of, any of the improvements, fixtures, equipment, supplies, merchandise and other property,
whether that of Tenant or of others in, upon or about the Premises resulting from fire,
explosion or the other perils included in standard coverage insurance, whether caused by the
negligence of any of said persons or otherwise. The waiver will remain in force whether or
not the Tenant s or Landlord s insurer consents thereto. 

d. 
       
     If Tenant installs any electrical equipment that overloads the power lines to the building or
its wiring, Tenant will, at its own expense, make whatever changes are necessary to comply
with the requirements of the insurance underwriter, insurance rating bureau and governmental
authorities having jurisdiction. 

25.0 COVENANTS TO HOLD HARMLESS :

Unless the liability for damage or loss is caused by the negligence of Landlord, its agents or
employees, Tenant will hold harmless Landlord from any liability for damages to any person or
property in or upon the Premises and the Building, including the person and property of Tenant and
its employees and all persons in the Building at its or their invitation or sufferance, and from
all damages resulting from Tenant s failure to perform the covenants of this Lease. All property
kept, maintained or stored on the Premises will be so kept, maintained or stored at the sole risk
of Tenant. Tenant agrees to pay all sums of money in respect of any labor, service, materials,
supplies or equipment furnished or alleged to have been furnished to Tenant in or about the
Premises, and not furnished on order of Landlord, which may be secured by any mechanic s
materialmen s or other lien to be discharged at the time performance of any obligation secured
thereby matures, provided that Tenant may contest such lien, but if such lien is reduced to final
judgment and if such judgment or process thereon is not stayed, or if stayed and said stay expires,
then and in each such event,
Tenant will forthwith pay and discharge said judgment. Landlord will have the right to post and
maintain on the Premises, notices of non-responsibility under the laws of the State of Minnesota.

26.0 NON-LIABILITY :

Subject to the terms and conditions of this Article 26.0, Landlord will not be liable for any
damage to property of Tenant or of others located on the Premises, nor for the loss or damage to
any property of Tenant or of others by theft or otherwise unless directly caused by Landlord s
gross negligence or willful misconduct. Landlord will not be liable for any injury or damage to
persons or property resulting from fire, explosion, falling plaster, steam, gas, electricity,
water, rain or snow or leaks

-15-

from any part of the Premises or from the pipes, appliances, or
plumbing works or from the roof, street or subsurface or from any other place or by dampness.
Landlord will not be liable for any such damage caused by other persons in the Premises, occupants
of adjacent property, of the buildings, or the public or caused by operations in construction of
any private, public or quasi-public work. Landlord will not be liable for any latent defect in the
Premises. All property of Tenant kept or stored on the Premises will be so kept or stored at the
risk of Tenant only and Tenant will hold Landlord harmless from any claims arising out of damage to
the same, including subrogation claims by Tenant s insurance carrier unless directly caused by
Landlord s gross negligence or willful misconduct.

27.0 SUBORDINATION :

This Lease will be subordinated to any mortgage that may now exist or that may hereafter be placed
upon the Premises and to any and all advances made there under, and to the interest upon the
indebtedness evidenced by such mortgages, and to all renewals, replacements and extensions thereof.
In the event of execution by Landlord after the date of this Lease of any such mortgage, renewal,
replacement or extension, Tenant agrees to execute a subordination agreement with the holder
thereof which agreement will provide that:

a. 
       
     Such holder will not disturb the possession and other rights of Tenant under this Lease so
long as Tenant is not currently in default hereunder. 

b. 
       
     In the event of acquisition of title to the Premises by such holder, such holder will accept
the Tenant as Tenant of the Premises under the terms and conditions of this Lease and will
perform all the obligations of Landlord hereunder, and 

c. 
       
     The Tenant will recognize such holder as Landlord hereunder 

Tenant will, upon receipt of a request from Landlord therefore, execute and deliver within fifteen
(15) business days to Landlord or to any proposed holder of a mortgage or trust deed or to any
proposed purchaser of the Premises an Estoppel Letter.

28.0 ATTORNMENT :

In the event of a sale or assignment of Landlord s interest, in the Building in which the Premises
are located, or this Lease, or if the Building comes into custody or possession of a mortgagee or
any other party whether because of a mortgage foreclosure, or otherwise, Tenant will attorn to such
assignee or other party and recognize such party as Landlord hereunder; provided, however, Tenant s
peaceable possession will not be disturbed so long as Tenant faithfully performs its obligations
under this Lease. Tenant will execute, on demand, any attornment agreement required by any such
party to be executed, containing such provisions as such party may require. Landlord will have no
further obligations under this Lease after any such assignment.

-16-

29.0 NOVATION IN THE EVENT OF SALE :

In the event of the sale of the Premises, Landlord will be and hereby is relieved of all of the
covenants and obligations created hereby accruing from and after the date of sale, and such sale
will result automatically in the purchaser assuming and agreeing to carry out all the covenants and
obligations of Landlord herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article 29.0,
Landlord, in the event of a sale of the Premises, will cause to be included in the agreement of
sale and purchase a covenant whereby the purchaser of the Premises assumes and agrees to carry out
all of the covenants and obligations of Landlord herein.

The Tenant agrees at any time and from time to time upon not less than fifteen (15) business days
prior written request by the Landlord to execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Landlord a
statement in writing certifying that this Lease is unmodified and in full force and effect or is in
full force and effect as modified and stating the modifications, and the dates to which the basic
rent and other charges have been paid in advance, if any, it being intended that any such statement
delivered pursuant to this Article may be relied upon by any prospective purchaser of the fee or
mortgagee or assignee of any mortgage upon the fee of the Premises.

30.0 QUIET ENJOYMENT :

Landlord warrants that it has full right to execute and to perform this Lease and to grant the
estate demised, and that Tenant, upon payment of the rents and other amounts due and the
performance of all the terms, conditions, covenants and agreements on Tenant s part to be observed
and performed under this Lease, may peaceably and quietly enjoy the Premises for the business uses
permitted hereunder, subject, nevertheless, to the terms and conditions of this Lease.

31.0 RECORDING :

Tenant will not record this Lease without the written consent of Landlord. However, upon the
request of either party hereto, the other party will join in the execution of the Memorandum lease
for the purposes of recordation. Said Memorandum lease will describe the parties, the Premises and
the term of the Lease and will incorporate this Lease by reference. This Article 31.0 will not be
construed to limit Landlord s right to file this Lease.

32.0 CONSENTS BY LANDLORD :

Whenever provision is made under this Lease for Tenant securing the consent or approval by
Landlord, such consent or approval must only be in writing.

33.0 INTENT OF PARTIES :

Except as otherwise provided herein, the Tenant covenants and agrees that if it at any time fails
to pay any cost or expense required to be paid by it, or fail to take out, pay for, maintain or
deliver any of the insurance policies above required, or fails to make any other payment or perform
any other act on its part to be made or performed as in this Lease provided, then the Landlord may,
but will not be obligated so to do, and without notice to or demand upon the Tenant and without
waiving or

-17-

releasing the Tenant from any obligations of the Tenant in this Lease contained, pay any
such cost or expense, effect any such insurance coverage and pay premiums therefore, and may make
any other payment or perform any other act on the part of the Tenant to be made and performed as in
this Lease provided, in such manner and to such extent as the Landlord may deem desirable, and in
exercising any such right, to also pay all necessary and incidental costs and expenses, employ
counsel and incur and pay reasonable attorney s fees. All sums so paid by Landlord and all
necessary and incidental costs and expenses in connection with the performance of any such act by
the Landlord, together with interest thereon at the rate of fourteen percent (14%) per annum from
the date of making such expenditures, by Landlord, will be deemed additional rent hereunder, and
will be payable to Landlord on demand. Tenant covenants to pay any such sum or sums with interest
as aforesaid and the Landlord will have the same rights and remedies in the event of the
non-payment thereof by Tenant as in the case of default by Tenant in the payment of the Base Rent
payable under this Lease.

34.0 TENANT S COMPLIANCE WITH PATRIOT ACT 

Tenant covenants with Landlord that Tenant will at all times comply with the USA Patriot Act, as
the same may be amended from time to time (the   Patriot Act  ). Tenant represents to Landlord that
Tenant is currently in compliance in every respect with the Patriot Act. Tenant covenants with
Landlord that Tenant will not, at any time enter into any type of transaction with a party who is
on the United States Treasury Department s Office of Foreign Assets Control (the   OFAC  ) list of
designated nationals and blocked persons (the   OFAC List  ) and that Tenant will at all times comply
with the requirements of the OFAC and the OFAC List, as the same may be amended from time to time.
In the event Tenant discovers that a party to a transaction is listed on the OFAC List, Tenant will
comply with all requirements of the OFAC and will notify Landlord immediately. Tenant represents
to Landlord that Tenant is not currently on the OFAC List and is currently in compliance with the
OFAC requirements and that Tenant is not currently involved in any transactions with a party on the
OFAC List.

35.0 GENERAL :

a. 
       
     This Lease does not create the relationship of principal and agent or of partnership or of
joint venture or of any association between Landlord and Tenant, the sole relationship between
the parties hereto being that of Landlord and Tenant. 

b. 
       
     No waiver of any default of Tenant hereunder will be implied from any omission by Landlord to
take any action on account of such default if such default persists or is repeated, and no
express waiver will affect any default other than the default specified in the express waiver
and that only for the time and to the extent therein stated. One or more waivers by Landlord
will not then be construed as a waiver of a subsequent breach of the same covenant, term or
condition. The consent or approval by Landlord of any act by Tenant requiring Landlord s
consent or approval will not waive or render unnecessary Landlord s consent to or approval of
any subsequent similar act by Tenant. No action required or permitted to be taken by or on
behalf of Landlord under the terms or provisions of this Lease will be deemed to constitute an
eviction or disturbance of Tenant s possession of the Premises. All preliminary negotiations
are merged into and incorporated in this Lease. The laws of the State of Minnesota will
govern the validity, performance and enforcement of this Lease. 

-18-

c. 
       
     This Lease and the exhibits, if any, attached hereto and forming a part hereof, constitute
the entire agreement between Landlord and Tenant affecting the Premises and there are no other
agreements, either oral or written, between them other than herein set forth. No subsequent
alteration, amendment, change or addition to this Lease will be binding upon Landlord or
Tenant unless reduced to writing and executed in the same form and manner in which this Lease
is executed. 

d. 
       
     If any agreement, covenant or condition of this Lease or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is, to any extent, invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this
Lease, or the application of such agreement, covenant or condition to persons or circumstances
other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, will not be affected thereby
and each agreement, covenant or condition of this Lease will be valid and be enforced to the
fullest extent permitted by law. 

e. 
       
     The captions are inserted only as a matter of convenience and for reference, and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope of this Lease nor the intent or any provision thereof. 

f. 
       
     Submission of this instrument to Tenant or proposed Tenant or his agents or attorneys for
examination, review, consideration or signature does not constitute or imply an offer to
lease, reservation of space, or option to lease, and this instrument will have no binding
legal effect until execution hereof by both Landlord/Owner and Tenant or its agents. 

Signatures begin on the next page 

-19-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the Landlord and the Tenant have executed this lease in form and manner
sufficient to bind them at law, as of the day and year first above written.

LANDLORD: 

TENANT:  

/s/ Gary T. Mulcahy Sr.

/s/ Douglas L. Hemer 

(Signature) 

(Signature)  

February 26, 2006

February 26, 2006 

Date 

Date  

Gary T. Mulcahy Sr.

Douglas L. Hemer 

Name (print) 

Name (print)  

President

Chief Administrative Officer 

Title 

Title  

Attached Exhibits: 
Exhibit A   Legal Description 
Exhibit B- Site Plan 
Exhibit C- Tenant Improvements

-20-

</EX-10.24>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 c03145exv23w1.htm
 INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM'S CONSENT

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8
(Nos. 33-72656, 333-111747, 333-111748) of our report dated March 24, 2006 relating to the
financial statements and financial statement schedule, which is included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
March 24, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 c03145exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Joseph C. Levesque, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Aetrium
Incorporated, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Aetrium Incorporated;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of this annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006

/s/ Joseph C. Levesque 

By:

Joseph C. Levesque 

Title:

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 c03145exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Douglas L. Hemer, Chief Administrative Officer of Aetrium Incorporated, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Aetrium Incorporated;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of this annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006

/s/ Douglas L. Hemer 

By:

Douglas L. Hemer 

Title:

Chief Administrative Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.3>
 6
 c03145exv31w3.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w3 

Exhibit 31.3 

CERTIFICATION BY TREASURER 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

I, Paul H. Askegaard, Treasurer of Aetrium Incorporated, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Aetrium Incorporated;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

(b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

(c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of this annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006

/s/ Paul H. Askegaard 

By:

Paul H. Askegaard 

Title:

Treasurer (principal financial and accounting officer) 

</EX-31.3>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 c03145exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of Aetrium Incorporated ( the Company ) on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ), Joseph C. Levesque, as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Douglas
L. Hemer, as Chief Administrative Officer of the Company, and Paul H. Askegaard, as Treasurer of
the Company, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

Date: March 31, 2006

By:

/s/ Joseph C. Levesque 

Name:

Joseph C. Levesque 

Title:

Chairman of the Board, President and 

Chief Executive Officer 

Date: March 31, 2006

By:

/s/ Douglas L. Hemer 

Name:

Douglas L. Hemer 

Title:

Chief Administrative Officer 

Date: March 31, 2006

By:

/s/ Paul H. Askegaard 

Name:

Paul H. Askegaard 

Title:

Treasurer (principal financial and 

accounting officer) 

</EX-32.1>

