<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_932112_0000950135-06-002020_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>817044</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>211682</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>408592</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>52</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950135-06-002020.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331153613
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-06-002020
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			APPLIX INC /MA/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000932112
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				042781676
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-25040
		FILM NUMBER:		06728612

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		289 TURNPIKE ROAD
		CITY:			WESTBOROUGH
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01581
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5088700300

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 J99QPEV2IE0DjxsoGhx9j5jSnR5R9oF7gDnnefCRj7/8WhAwfZvBhsRWY6ubiIGP
 xkKviLh/gUGqhJtOQ0XJNg==

 0000950135-06-002020.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 b58500aie10vk.htm
 APPLIX, INC. FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form  10-K  

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) 

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

Commission File No. 0-25040 

Applix, Inc. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 

(508) 870-0300 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act: 

None 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act: 

Common Stock, $0.0025 par value 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.     Yes               No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation  S-K  is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form  10-K  or any
amendment to this
Form  10-K.        

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
filer               Accelerated
filer                 Non-accelerated
filer   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Act).     Yes              No   

The aggregate market value of Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was $58,773,027 based on the
closing price of the Common Stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market
on June 30, 2005.

On March 1, 2006, the Registrant had 15,062,651 outstanding
shares of common stock.

Documents Incorporated By Reference  

Document Part  

Form 10-K  

Portions of the Registrant s Definitive Proxy 
    Statement for the Annual Stockholders Meeting to be held on
    June 8, 2006 to be filed with the United 
    States Securities and Exchange Commission 

Part III 

APPLIX, INC. 

FORM  10-K  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page    

PART I   

Item 1. 

Business  

3 

Item 1A 

Risk Factors  

8 

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments  

11 

Item 2. 

Properties  

11 

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings  

12 

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders  

12 

PART II   

Item 5. 

Market for the Registrant s Common
    Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
    Equity Securities  

14 

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data  

15 

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

15 

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    about Market Risk  

26 

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data  

27 

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures  

27 

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures  

27 

Item 9B. 

Other Information  

28 

PART III   

Item 10. 

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant  

28 

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation  

28 

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

28 

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  

28 

Item 14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

29 

PART IV   

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules  

29 

Signatures  

32 

Exhibit Index  

61 

EX-10.17 APPLIX, INC. 2003 DIRECTOR EQUITY PLAN, AS AMENDED    
     EX-10.24 SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION POLICY FOR DIRECTORS OF APPLIX, INC.    
     EX-21.1 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT    
     EX-23.1 CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP    
     EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.    
     EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.    
     EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.    
     EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.    

Applix and TM1 are registered trademarks of Applix, Inc. TM1
Integra, TM1 Financial Reporting, TM1 Consolidations, TM1
Planning Manager and TM1 Web are trademarks of Applix, Inc. All
other trademarks and company names mentioned are the property of
their respective owners. All rights reserved.

Certain information contained in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  is
forward-looking in nature. All statements included in this
Annual Report on
Form  10-K  or made
by management of Applix, Inc. ( Applix  or the
 Company ) and its subsidiaries, other than statements
of historical facts, are forward-looking statements. Examples of
forward-looking statements include statements regarding
Applix s future financial results, operations, business
strategies, projected costs, products, competitive positions and
plans and objectives of management for future operations. In
some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by
terminology such as  may ,  will ,
 should ,  would ,  expect ,
 plan ,  anticipates ,  intend ,
 believes ,  estimates ,
 predicts ,  potential ,
 continue , or the negative of these terms or other
comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements necessarily
involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ
materially from those indicated by such forward-looking
statements as a result of important factors, including those
discussed in the section below entitled  Risk
Factors . Applix does not undertake an obligation to update
its forward-looking statements to reflect future events or
circumstances and the forward-looking statements in this
document should not be relied upon as representing the
Company s views as of any date subsequent to the date of
this document.

2

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1.  
     
       Business    

General  

Applix, Inc. (the  Company ) is a global provider of
Business Performance Management ( BPM ) and Business
Intelligence ( BI ) applications based on
Applix s TM1. TM1 applications enable continuous strategic
planning, management and monitoring of performance across the
financial and operational functions within the enterprise. More
than 2,200 customers worldwide, including many Fortune
100 companies, use Applix s adaptable, scalable and
real-time solutions to manage their business performance and
respond to business challenges in real-time. Incorporated in
1983 and headquartered in Westborough, Massachusetts
( MA ), Applix maintains offices in North America, the
United Kingdom, Germany and Australia.

In 2005, Applix was recognized by a variety of industry groups
and publications for its leading-edge technologies, including:

Applix improved significantly its positions on Gartner
    Inc. s Magic Quadrant for Corporate Performance Management
    Suites, 2005 and Gartner s Magic Quadrant for Business
    Intelligence platforms based upon its ability to execute and
    completeness of vision. 

In BPM Partners Third Annual BPM Pulse Survey, Applix customers
    reported the highest level of customer satisfaction of any of
    the leading BPM solutions, including solutions from all the
    major competitors in the BPM market segment. 

The OLAP Survey 5 reported that customers of Applix s TM1
    experience high levels of user satisfaction, reflecting the
    technology s ease of use and flexibility. Respondents
    ranked TM1 highest in overall business benefits achieved as well
    as six other measures, including query time, speed of
    deployment, data load/precalculation and the fewest number of
    technical problems. Additionally, TM1 was ranked among the top
    three in seven other measures. 

Applix TM1 customer, GTC Biotherapeutics, received Start
    Magazine s 2005 Technology & Business Award for
    their efforts in using TM1. 

Applix maintains a website with the address www.applix.com.
Applix is not including the information contained on its website
as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual
Report on
Form  10-K.  Applix
makes available free of charge through its website its Annual
Reports on
Form  10-K, 
Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  and
Current Reports on
Form  8-K,  and
amendments to the reports, as soon as reasonably practicable
after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes
such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Industry Background  

The economy of recent years has forced companies to adopt
rigorous methods for assessing the impact that any future
investments would have on their business. With reduced
resources, many enterprises are pressed to make difficult
decisions as to where to increase and decrease spending in their
businesses. Many companies are focused on incremental
investments in IT projects and reductions in plans for
cutting-edge technologies and large infrastructure initiatives.
However, analysts predict that the BI and BPM markets will be
growth markets in 2006 and beyond.

The BI market is a large and well-established market focused on
leveraging the data collected in operational systems throughout
an organization. BI is associated with the data warehousing
market and involves the analysis of large amounts of historical
data. The historical data is aggregated before it is analyzed
and this aggregation process frequently requires several hours
or days before any analyses can be performed. Often, the
analyses are performed by a few highly trained individuals
within an organization.

The BPM market is an emerging market that extends the
capabilities of BI solutions. BPM solutions tend to focus on
proactive, rather than reactive, historical analyses, and they
rely on recently updated or real-time

3

Table of Contents   

data feeds. BPM solutions also tend to involve data from across
an organization and involve more diverse groups of users than do
BI solutions.

Factors driving the growth in the need for BI and BPM solutions
include increasingly fierce business competition, the need for
financial transparency across the enterprise, the rapid
explosion of data, and more decentralized decision-making. In
terms of new license revenue, Gartner projects the BI software
market will grow from $2.5 billion in 2006 to
$3 billion in 2009, a compound annual growth rate
( CAGR ) of 7.4%. In comparison, Gartner projects the
BPM software market will see a 10% CAGR, growing from
$593 million in 2004 to just under $1 billion in 2009.

These strong projected growth rates validate Applix s
conviction that in today s competitive corporate
marketplace, companies can no longer succeed solely by
automating their
 day-to -day
transactions. Companies must also incorporate analytic processes
into their daily operations to monitor and react to key business
performance metrics such as customer retention and product
profitability.

Applix TM1 has over 20 years of success in the BI market.
Applix is also well positioned to deliver BPM solutions, as
evidenced by the growing number of customers who have selected
Applix software solutions to maximize business performance. In
2005, more than 200 new customers selected Applix BI and BPM
products, and revenues for those products increased by 20% over
2004.

Applix Products  

The Applix product family helps customers automate, analyze and
optimize their operational and analytical business processes
throughout their extended enterprises. The Applix product family
consists of Applix TM1 and related BPM modules. The Applix
family of products enables solutions including:

interactive planning, budgeting, forecasting and reporting
    applications; 

sales, marketing, supply chain and manufacturing and other
    analyses; 

human resource planning applications; and 

dashboarding, scorecarding and key performance indicators (KPIs). 

In June 2005, Applix introduced TM1 Financial Reporting, a
module that quickly and easily builds key reporting structures,
data import routines and financial reports based on information
from the customer s general ledger. Shortly thereafter, in
August 2005, Applix released TM1 Consolidations, a module used
to comply with statutory reporting requirements including
adjusting journal entries, intercompany eliminations and
currency conversion. Finally, at the end of 2005, Applix
released Version 9.0 of TM1 based on Microsoft s .NET
architecture. The new features in TM1 9.0 deliver
enterprise-class performance for simultaneous use by hundreds of
financial analysts,
 line-of -business
managers and senior executives for Web-based business
performance management activities and reporting.

With solutions based on the TM1 application, Applix s
customers have increased their business performance in numerous
ways, such as achieving their business goals within
6 months of implementation on the average, freeing up
personnel to concentrate on strategic planning rather than on
data gathering, reducing customer defections, improving customer
satisfaction, shortening the business cycles from days to
minutes, and rapidly managing mergers and acquisitions.
Applix s global network of partners delivers packaged and
custom applications based on the TM1 platform for specific
vertical markets such as pharmaceuticals and banking, or for a
specific function such as supply chain analytics or financial
consolidation and reporting.

Applix s leading product, Applix TM1, an application used
for planning, reporting and analysis, helps customers improve
business performance by enabling effective, real-time decision
making at all organization levels. Applix TM1 provides
consistent reporting and analysis of data captured from across
the extended enterprise.

4

Table of Contents   

Applix TM1 allows business users to access their critical data
via Microsoft Excel, its enterprise-wide Web interface and other
third-party products, such as Microsoft Reporting Services. With
its powerful client-server database engine and an elegant,
 easy-to -use interface,
users are able to spend more time analyzing information and less
time maintaining data.

The Applix TM1 application is easily configurable and deploys
rapidly with minimal IT investment. Applix TM1 s low total
cost of ownership enables business users to quickly achieve
their goals, whether they build applications themselves or work
with one of Applix s many solution partners.

Applix TM1 s real-time approach to consolidating, viewing
and even editing large volumes of multidimensional data is an
undisputable differentiator in the BPM and BI markets. Applix
TM1 has been one of the leading multi-dimensional analytics
tools for highly complex business and financial analytical
applications for over twenty years.

The Applix TM1 application, including TM1 Web and TM1 Planning
Manager, expand the scope of business planning processes to
support continuously changing customer demands and operational
requirements. The Applix TM1 platform and modules also enable
the quick and effortless integration of information from
enterprise resource planning ( ERP ), financial
systems, customer relationship management ( CRM ),
human resources, and other  legacy  databases.

Applix TM1 is available on Windows and Unix platforms. However,
the majority of customers utilize Applix TM1 on Windows
platforms. As a result, Applix is constantly working with
Microsoft to enhance and expand its support on the Windows
platform.

Applix TM1 provides the following benefits:

Familiar spreadsheet interface:  Users access Applix TM1
    features and capabilities directly from the familiar environment
    of Microsoft Excel. 

Instant response times:  Because of Applix TM1 s
    ability to quickly load vast data sets into memory, it is
    superior to other products that force the customer to
    pre-calculate and re-calculate consolidations and derived values
    before anyone can view the data. 

Real-time multi-user read/write and what-if analyses: 
    Because of Applix TM1 s memory-based approach, users can
    instantly view the results of any updates and what-if analyses
    they perform. 

Rapid deployment:  Applix TM1 typically builds complete
    applications for customers in a fraction of the time required by
    competing products. 

Scalability:  Applix TM1 s 64-bit capability,
    combined with its ability to support multiple servers, multiple
    cubes, multi-threaded processing and multi-user data updating,
    make it a logical choice for large-scale operations. 

Efficient use of system resources:  Because Applix TM1
    never resorts to pre-calculating data, it requires much less
    hardware and processing power than other products, which suffer
    from a common  data explosion  predicament. 

Dynamic business workflow:  This enables a business to map
    its processes with Applix TM1 s workflow capabilities.
     Easy-to -use
     wizards  help ensure compliance with organizational
    and regulatory processes. 

Complex business modeling:  Applix TM1 s unique
    architecture of multi-cubes, rules, a real-time engine, and
    workflow allow a business to manage its complex business models. 

Actionable alerts:  Timely alerts generated from a
    company s analyses and business processes enable it to be
    proactive with respect to its business environment. 

5

Table of Contents   

Sales and Marketing  

The Company focuses its marketing efforts on companies committed
to improving business analytics at the departmental level and
business performance management at the company-wide level. The
Company markets its products to mid-market and Global 2000
organizations across all industry segments with particular
success in the financial services, banking, healthcare,
pharmaceuticals, oil and gas, retail, telecommunications,
manufacturing and consumer goods industries. The Company
believes that these industry sectors are, and will continue to
be, some of the fastest growing sectors for its products. A key
part of the Company s marketing strategy is an emphasis on
its high-performance Applix TM1 analytical engine for financial
and operational business modeling, analytics and reporting;
real-time calculations; the rapid deployment of its products;
and the lower total cost of ownership of its solutions.

Applix s products are sold primarily through a direct sales
force and a network of value added resellers ( VARs )
and are also sold through certain original equipment
manufacturers ( OEMs ). The Company s sales teams
operate out of the Company s offices in major metropolitan
cities in the U.S. as well as its offices in the United
Kingdom, Germany and Australia. These direct selling efforts are
supplemented both domestically and abroad with support from
business consulting groups and strategic marketing partners.
These organizations provide additional implementation resources,
domain expertise and complementary applications using the
Company s software products. While the sales cycle for
Applix products varies substantially from customer to customer,
it traditionally requires three to six months.

The Company strongly believes that, going forward, its hybrid
sales and marketing strategy, utilizing a direct sales force
working closely with consultants and strategic resellers, is an
important part of the Company s future success. The Company
also plans on continuing to establish strategic marketing
relationships with leading hardware and software vendors and
systems integrators within targeted industry sectors. This
strategy is expected to support the Company in penetrating both
new accounts within its existing markets and also entirely new
market segments, while also leveraging its sales and marketing
investments.

Financial information by geographical area may be found in
Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Customer Training, Maintenance Support, and Professional
Services  

The Company believes that quality professional services and
customer support are a critical part of its sales and marketing
efforts. Many of the Company s customers use its products
to develop and support  mission critical 
applications, and the Company therefore recognizes that quality
training, support and consulting services are especially
important to its customers. In addition to in-house consultants,
the Company works closely with partner organizations to provide
additional resources and domain expertise.

The Company s in-house consultants and partners assist in
the sales process by working directly with potential customers,
educating them as to the benefits of the Company s
products, and often performing product demonstrations using the
customers  own data or engaging in a more extensive proof
of concept project. In addition, the Company s in-house
consultants and partners work directly with customer personnel
in both information technology departments and in the functional
areas relevant to the application, to assist them in the
planning and deploying of Applix solutions.

Customers may elect to purchase a maintenance support plan for
an annual fee that is generally 18% of the list license fee for
covered products. The maintenance support plans include
unspecified product upgrades and interim fixes to reported
problems. Maintenance support plan revenues accounted for
approximately 89% of the Company s professional services
and maintenance revenue in 2005 compared to approximately 90% of
professional services and maintenance revenue in 2004.

Software Product Development  

The Company believes strongly that the path to success is
predicated upon constantly being at the forefront of technology
and product innovation. With a strong commitment to the future,
Applix has continued

6

Table of Contents   

its long history of investing in product research and
development. In 2005, Applix invested approximately
$5.3 million, or 14% of total revenues, in product research
and development.

Product development expenses were $5,269,000, $4,785,000 and
$5,512,000 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Competition  

The Company believes that it competes principally on the basis
of product features and functionality (including cross-platform
availability, interoperability, integration and extensibility),
reliability, ease of use, ease of support, and total costs of
ownership (initial investment and on-going operating costs of
the solution).

The markets for the Company s products are highly
competitive and subject to rapid change. The companies with
which Applix competes most often are Hyperion and Cognos. The
Company also competes with other smaller competitors, some of
whom build their product offerings on Microsoft technologies. In
general, both categories of competitors are marketing and
selling pre-built BPM and BI applications along with services to
implement and customize the applications. Applix approaches the
market differently by offering easily configured BPM and BI
applications, and its partners and customers typically perform
the implementation.

Software vendors are under increasing pressure to provide
solutions that are easy to map to customers  rapidly
evolving business models and that integrate with other
solutions. Customers have become more methodical in their
methods of evaluating vendors  solutions, and they often
require that vendors substantiate their claims with case studies
that demonstrate compelling return on investment benefits.

Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights  

Applix relies primarily on a combination of copyright law and
trade secret law to protect its proprietary technology. The
Company has internal policies and systems to ensure limited
access to, and the confidential treatment of, its trade secrets.
The Company generally distributes its products under
 shrink-wrap  software license agreements, which
contain various provisions to protect the Company s
ownership and confidentiality of the underlying technology. The
Company also requires its employees and other parties with
access to confidential information to execute agreements
prohibiting the unauthorized use or disclosure of the
Company s technology. Despite these precautions, it may be
possible for a third party to misappropriate the Company s
technology or to independently develop similar technology. In
addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may
not be available in every foreign country in which the
Company s products are distributed, and
 shrink-wrap  licenses, which are not signed by the
customer, may be unenforceable in certain jurisdictions.

The Company resells three technologies in conjunction with
certain of the Company s products and that are licensed
from third parties. The Company generally pays royalties on
these technologies on either a per license or a percentage of
revenue basis (the amount of which is not material to the
Company). Applix believes that if the licenses for these
third-party technologies were terminated, it would be able to
develop such technologies internally or license equivalent
technologies from other vendors without significant additional
expense. If the Company s right to distribute such
third-party technologies were terminated, the Company does not
believe that sales of its products would be adversely affected.

The Company believes that, due to the rapid pace of
technological innovation for software applications, the
Company s ability to establish and maintain a position of
technology leadership in the industry is dependent more upon the
skills of its development personnel than upon the legal
protections afforded its existing technology.

The Company believes that its trademarks are important to the
success of its business. Applix and TM1 are registered
trademarks of the Company. TM1 Integra, TM1 Financial Reporting,
TM1 Consolidations, TM1 Planning Manager and TM1 Web are
trademarks of the Company.

7

Table of Contents   

Applix is not engaged in any material disputes with other
parties with respect to the ownership or use of the
Company s proprietary technology. However, there can be no
assurance that other parties will not assert technology
infringement claims or other claims against the Company in the
future. The litigation of such a claim may involve significant
expense and management time. In addition, if any such claims
were successful, the Company could be required to pay monetary
damages and may also be required to either refrain from
distributing the infringing product or obtain a license from the
party asserting the claim (which license may not be available on
commercially reasonable terms).

Employees  

As of March 1, 2006, the Company had 147 employees.
Domestically, the Company had 99 employees, which includes 36
employees in product research and development, 34 employees in
sales and marketing, 8 employees in professional services,
3 employees in information systems, and 18 employees in finance,
operations, administration and facilities. Internationally, the
Company had 48 employees, which includes 29 employees in
sales and marketing, 11 employees in professional services and 8
in finance and operations. None of the Company s employees
are represented by a labor union, and the Company believes that
its employee relations are good.

Item 1A.  
     
       Risk Factors    

Investors should carefully consider the risks described below
before making an investment decision with respect to the common
stock of the Company.

OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY SIGNIFICANT
    FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY RESULTS.   

We may experience significant fluctuations in our future results
of operations due to a variety of factors, many of which are
outside of our control, including:

demand for and market acceptance of our products and services; 

the size and timing of customer orders, particularly large
    orders; 

introduction of products and services or enhancements by us and
    our competitors; 

competitive factors that affect our pricing; 

the mix of products and services we sell; 

the hiring and retention of key personnel; 

our expansion into international markets; 

the timing and magnitude of our capital expenditures, including
    costs relating to the expansion of our operations; 

the acquisition and retention of key partners; 

changes in generally accepted accounting policies, especially
    those related to the recognition of software revenue and the
    accounting for stock-based compensation; and 

new government legislation or regulation. 

We typically receive a majority of our orders in the last month
of each fiscal quarter because our customers often delay
purchases of products until the end of the quarter as our sales
organization and our individual sales representatives strive to
meet quarterly sales targets. As a result, any delay in
anticipated sales is likely to result in the deferral of the
associated revenue beyond the end of a particular quarter, which
would have a significant effect on our operating results for
that quarter. In addition, most of our operating expenses do not
vary directly with net sales and are difficult to adjust in the
short term. As a result, if net sales for a particular quarter
were below expectations, we could not proportionately reduce
operating expenses for that

8

Table of Contents   

quarter, and, therefore, that revenue shortfall would have a
disproportionate adverse effect on our operating results for
that quarter. If our operating results are below the
expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price
of our common stock may fall significantly.

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FULFILL ANY FUTURE CAPITAL
    NEEDS.   

Although we were profitable in 2004 and 2005, we incurred losses
from continuing operations for several years prior to 2004. We
could incur operating losses and negative cash flows in the
future because of costs and expenses relating to brand
development, marketing and other promotional activities,
continued development of our information technology
infrastructure, expansion of product offerings and development
of relationships with other businesses. There can be no
assurance that we will continue to achieve a profitable level of
operations in the future.

We believe, based upon our current business plan, that our
current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, funds
expected to be generated from operations and our available
credit line should be sufficient to fund our operations as
planned for at least the next twelve months. However, we may
need additional funds sooner than anticipated if our performance
deviates significantly from our current business plan or if
there are significant changes in competitive or other market
factors. If we elect to raise additional operating funds, such
funds, whether from equity or debt financing or other sources,
may not be available, or available on terms acceptable to us.

IF WE DO NOT INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IN A
    TIMELY MANNER, OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WILL BECOME OBSOLETE,
    AND OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER.   

The BPM and BI markets, including interactive planning,
budgeting and analytics are characterized by rapid technological
change, frequent new product enhancements, uncertain product
life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving industry
standards. Our products could be rendered obsolete if products
based on new technologies are introduced or new industry
standards emerge.

Enterprise computing environments are inherently complex. As a
result, we cannot accurately estimate the life cycles of our
products. New products and product enhancements can require long
development and testing periods, which requires us to hire and
retain technically competent personnel. Significant delays in
new product releases or significant problems in installing or
implementing new products could seriously damage our business.
We have, on occasion, experienced delays in the scheduled
introduction of new and enhanced products and may experience
similar delays in the future.

Our future success depends upon our ability to enhance existing
products, develop and introduce new products, satisfy customer
requirements and achieve market acceptance. We may not
successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and
bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective
manner.

ATTEMPTS TO EXPAND BY MEANS OF BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND
    ACQUISITIONS MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL AND MAY DISRUPT OUR
    OPERATIONS OR HARM OUR REVENUES.   

We have in the past, and may in the future, buy businesses,
products or technologies. In the event of any future purchases,
we will face additional financial and operational risks,
including:

difficulty in assimilating the operations, technology and
    personnel of acquired companies; 

disruption in our business because of the allocation of
    resources to consummate these transactions and the diversion of
    management s attention from our core business; 

difficulty in retaining key technical and managerial personnel
    from acquired companies; 

dilution of our stockholders, if we issue equity to fund these
    transactions; 

9

Table of Contents   

assumption of increased expenses and liabilities; 

our relationships with existing employees, customers and
    business partners may be weakened or terminated as a result of
    these transactions; and 

additional ongoing expenses associated with write-downs of
    goodwill and other purchased intangible assets. 

WE RELY HEAVILY ON KEY PERSONNEL.   

We rely heavily on key personnel throughout the organization.
The loss of any of our members of management, or any of our
staff of sales and development professionals, could prevent us
from successfully executing our business strategies. Any such
loss of technical knowledge and industry expertise could
negatively impact our success. Moreover, the loss of any
critical employees or a group thereof, particularly to a
competing organization, could cause us to lose market share, and
the Applix brand could be diminished.

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MEET THE OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL
    CHALLENGES THAT WE ENCOUNTER IN OUR INTERNATIONAL
    OPERATIONS.   

Due to the Company s significant international operations,
we face a number of additional challenges associated with the
conduct of business overseas. For example:

we may have difficulty managing and administering a
    globally-dispersed business; 

fluctuations in exchange rates may negatively affect our
    operating results; 

we may not be able to repatriate the earnings of our foreign
    operations; 

we have to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws; 

we may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks overseas
    due to the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain
    countries relating to the protection of intellectual property
    rights; 

reductions in business activity during the summer months in
    Europe and certain other parts of the world could negatively
    impact the operating results of our foreign operations; 

export controls could prevent us from shipping our products into
    and from some markets; 

multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures could
    significantly reduce the financial performance of our foreign
    operations; 

changes in import/export duties and quotas could affect the
    competitive pricing of our products and services and reduce our
    market share in some countries; and 

economic or political instability in some international markets
    could result in the forfeiture of some foreign assets and the
    loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets. 

BECAUSE THE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND BUSINESS
    INTELLIGENCE MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE
    TO SUCCEED.   

If we fail to compete successfully in the highly competitive and
rapidly changing business performance management and business
intelligence markets, we may not be able to succeed. We face
competition primarily from business intelligence firms. We also
face competition from large enterprise application software
vendors, independent systems integrators, consulting firms and
in-house IT departments. Because barriers to entry into the
software market are relatively low, we expect to face additional
competition in the future.

Many of our competitors can devote significantly more resources
to the development, promotion and sale of products than we can,
and many of them can respond to new technologies and changes in
customer preferences more quickly than we can. Further, other
companies with resources greater than ours may attempt to gain
market share in the customer analytics and business planning
markets by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our
competitors.

10

Table of Contents   

BECAUSE WE DEPEND IN PART ON THIRD-PARTY SYSTEMS
    INTEGRATORS TO PROMOTE, SELL AND IMPLEMENT OUR PRODUCTS, OUR
    OPERATING RESULTS WILL LIKELY SUFFER IF WE DO NOT DEVELOP AND
    MAINTAIN THESE RELATIONSHIPS.   

We rely in part on systems integrators to promote, sell and
implement our solutions. If we fail to maintain and develop
relationships with systems integrators, our operating results
will likely suffer. In addition, if we are unable to rely on
systems integrators to install and implement our products, we
will likely have to provide these services ourselves, resulting
in increased costs. As a result, our results of operations may
be harmed. In addition, systems integrators may develop, market
or recommend products that compete with our products. Further,
if these systems integrators fail to implement our products
successfully, our reputation may be harmed.

BECAUSE THE SALES CYCLE FOR OUR PRODUCTS CAN BE LENGTHY,
    IT IS DIFFICULT FOR US TO PREDICT WHEN OR WHETHER A SALE WILL BE
    MADE.   

The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict in large part
due to the length and variability of the sales cycle for our
products. Companies often view the purchase of our products as a
significant and strategic decision. As a result, companies tend
to take significant time and effort evaluating our products. The
amount of time and effort depends in part on the size and the
complexity of the deployment. This evaluation process frequently
results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from three
to six months. During this time we may incur substantial sales
and marketing expenses and expend significant management
efforts. We do not recoup these investments if the prospective
customer does not ultimately license our product.

OUR BUSINESS WILL BE HARMED IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT
    OUR TRADEMARKS FROM MISUSE BY THIRD PARTIES.   

Our collection of trademarks is important to our business. The
protective steps we take or have taken may be inadequate to
deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. We have filed
applications for registration of some of our trademarks in the
United States. Effective trademark protection may not be
available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer
our products and services. Failure to protect our trademark
rights adequately could damage our brand identity and impair our
ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, defending or
enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure
of significant financial and managerial resources.

OUR PRODUCTS MAY CONTAIN DEFECTS THAT MAY BE COSTLY TO
    CORRECT, DELAY MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS AND EXPOSE US
    TO LITIGATION.   

Despite testing by Applix and our customers, errors may be found
in our products after commencement of commercial shipments. If
errors are discovered, we may have to make significant
expenditures of capital to eliminate them and yet may not be
able to successfully correct them in a timely manner or at all.
Errors and failures in our products could result in a loss of,
or delay in, market acceptance of our products and could damage
our reputation and our ability to convince commercial users of
the benefits of our products.

In addition, failures in our products could cause system
failures for our customers who may assert warranty and other
claims for substantial damages against us. Although our license
agreements with our customers typically contain provisions
designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability
claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be
effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions.
Our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to
this type of claim. These claims, even if unsuccessful, could be
costly and time-consuming to defend.

Item 1B.  
     
       Unresolved Staff Comments    

Not applicable.

Item 2.  
     
       Properties    

The Company is headquartered at 289 Turnpike Road in
Westborough, Massachusetts. The Company s amended
headquarters  lease for 24,376 square feet has a
seven-year term, which will expire on January 31, 2011. The
Company also leases smaller offices in several metropolitan
areas within the United States.

11

Table of Contents   

Internationally, the Company has three office leases:
1) London, United Kingdom, 2) Munich, Germany and
3) Sydney, Australia. The Company believes that its
existing facilities are adequate for its current needs and that
suitable additional or substitute space will be available as
needed.

Item 3.  
     
       Legal Proceedings    

From time to time, the Company is subject to routine litigation
and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. The
Company is not aware of any pending litigation to which the
Company is or may become a party, that the Company believes
could result in a material adverse impact on its consolidated
results of operations or financial condition.

On January 4, 2006, the Company reached a settlement with
the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC )
concerning the SEC s investigation, which commenced in
2003, relating to the restatement of the Company s
financial statements for fiscal years 2001 and 2002. The
settlement did not require the Company to pay a monetary
penalty. As part of the settlement, the Company has consented to
a cease and desist order requiring future compliance with
Federal securities laws and regulations, and has retained a
consultant to assist the Company in reviewing its compliance
procedures.

Item 4.  
     
       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders    

No matter was submitted to a vote of the Company s
stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2005.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following is a list of the Company s directors and
executive officers, their ages as of March 1, 2006 and
their principal position. Executive officers are appointed and
may be removed by the Board of Directors.

Name  
       
      Age    
       
      Position  

John D. Loewenberg

65 

Chairman of the Board of Directors 

Bradley D. Fire

36 

Director 

Alain J. Hanover

57 

Director 

Charles F. Kane

48 

Director 

Peter Gyenes

60 

Director 

David C. Mahoney

61 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

Milton A. Alpern

54 

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 

Michael A. Morrison

43 

Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations 

Chanchal Samanta

52 

Vice President, Research and Development 

Mr. Loewenberg has been a director of the Company since
March 2001 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since July
2002. Mr. Loewenberg has been the Managing Partner of JDL
Enterprises, a consulting company, since 1996.
Mr. Loewenberg served as interim President and CEO of Wang
Healthcare Information Systems, an electronic medical record
solution company, from March 1998 to September 1999.
Mr. Loewenberg is currently a director of DocuCorp
International.

Mr. Fire has been a director of the Company since February
2003. Mr. Fire has been the owner of Peeper Ranch, an
equestrian facility, since March 2000. Mr. Fire served as a
Senior Software Engineer of Go2Net, Inc., an Internet services
company, from June 1998 to February 2000. Mr. Fire served
as the co-Chief Executive Officer of Silicon Investor, a
consumer website devoted to discussion about technology stocks,
from May 1995 to June 1998.

Mr. Hanover has been a director of the Company since July
1992. Mr. Hanover has been the Managing Director and CEO of
Navigator Technology Ventures, a venture capital firm, since
January 2002. He was the Managing Partner of Main Street
Partners LLC, a venture capital firm, from August 2000 to
December 2001. Mr. Hanover served as the President and
Chief Executive Officer of InCert Software Corp., a computer
software development and distribution company, from October 1997
to July 2000. Mr. Hanover served as

12

Table of Contents   

Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer
of Viewlogic Systems, Inc., an engineering software company,
from 1984 until May 1997.

Mr. Kane has been a director of the Company since March
2001. Mr. Kane has been the Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Aspen Technology, Inc., a provider of
process management software and implementation services, since
July 2003. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer of
Corechange, Inc., an
 e-business  access
framework software provider, from May 2001 until its sale to
Open Text Corporation in February 2003. From May 2000 to May
2001, Mr. Kane served as the Chief Operating Officer of
Corechange. Before joining Corechange, from March 2000 to May
2000, Mr. Kane served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Ascential Software Corporation (formerly
known as Informix Corporation), a global provider of information
management software. Mr. Kane served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Ardent Software, Inc.,
a data integration software supplier, from November 1995 to
March 2000 when it was acquired by Ascential.

Mr. Gyenes has been a director of the Company since May
2000. Mr. Gyenes served as the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Ascential Software Corporation (formerly known as
Informix Corporation), a global provider of information
management software, from July 2000 until its acquisition by IBM
in April 2005. Mr. Gyenes was Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer of Ardent Software, Inc., a data integration
software supplier, from April 1997 until the acquisition of
Ardent by Informix in March 2000. Mr. Gyenes is a member of
the Board of Directors of ViryaNet. Mr. Gyenes is also a
member of the Board of Trustees of the Massachusetts Technology
Leadership Council.

Mr. Mahoney was elected interim President and Chief
Executive Officer of Applix on February 28, 2003 and served
in that capacity until April 22, 2003 at which time he was
elected President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Mahoney
has also been a director of the Company since October 1992.
Mr. Mahoney served as Chief Executive Officer of Verbind,
Inc., a provider of real-time behavioral analysis and event
triggering technology, from May 2001 until February 2003,
following the sale of the company to SAS Institute. Prior to
joining Verbind, Mr. Mahoney served as Chairman of the
Board of Directors of LeadingSide, Inc. (formerly Dataware
Technologies, Incorporated), an
 e-business  solutions
provider, from February 2000 to May 2001, and President and
Chief Executive Officer of LeadingSide from January 1999 to
February 2000. LeadingSide filed for bankruptcy protection in
April 2001. Mr. Mahoney served as President and Chief
Executive Officer of Sovereign Hill Software, Inc., a
collaborative knowledge discovery software provider, from
January 1998 to December 1998, when it merged with Dataware
Technologies. Mr. Mahoney served as Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer of ePresence, Inc. (formerly Banyan
Systems, Inc.), a networking software company, from 1983 until
May 1997.

Mr. Alpern was elected Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer on June 16, 2003. From February 2002 through
March 2003, Mr. Alpern served as the Chief Financial
Officer of Viisage Technology, Inc., a publicly-held provider of
facial recognition and identity verification software and
solutions. Prior to joining Viisage Technology, Mr. Alpern
was the Chief Financial Officer of Eprise Corporation, a
publicly-held provider of business Web site content management
software and services, from March 1998 through February 2002.

Mr. Morrison joined the Company in June 2004 as Vice
President, Worldwide Field Operations and is responsible for all
field sales operations, services and support personnel. Prior to
Applix, Mr. Morrison held various positions at Cognos
Incorporated, a publicly-held provider of business intelligence
and business performance software, from May 1993 through
February 2004, including Vice President of Enterprise Planning
Operations, Vice President of Finance and Administration, and
Corporate Counsel.

Mr. Samanta joined the Company in January 2006 as Vice
President, Research and Development. Prior to joining Applix,
Mr. Samanta served as Vice President, Product Development
at Unica Corporation, a publicly-held provider of enterprise
marketing management software, from February 2002 to September
2005. From April 2001 to December 2001, Mr. Samanta served
as Chief Technology Officer of Availant, Incorporated, a
privately-held provider of availability management software and
services. Before joining Availant, Mr. Samanta served as
Chief Technology Officer of Veridiem, Inc., a privately-held
provider of marketing effectiveness software, from October 2000
to March 2001.

There are no family relationships among any of the directors or
executive officers.

13

Table of Contents   

PART II 

Item 5.  
     
       Market for Registrant s Common Stock, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities    

The Company s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital
Market ( NASDAQ ) under the symbol  APLX .
The table below reflects the range of high and low sales price
per share of common stock, as reported on NASDAQ for the periods
indicated.

Dividends  

The Company has never paid any cash dividends on its common
stock. The Company intends to retain its earnings to finance
future growth and therefore does not anticipate paying any cash
dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future.

Holders  

The approximate number of holders of record of the
Company s common stock on March 1, 2006 was 166. This
number does not include shareholders for whom shares are held in
a  nominee  or  street  name.

14

Table of Contents   

Item 6.  
     
       Selected Financial Data    

Item 7.  
     
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations    

OVERVIEW OF THE COMPANY S OPERATIONS 

The Company is a global provider of BPM and BI applications
based on Applix s TM1. TM1 applications enable continuous
strategic planning, management and monitoring of performance
across the financial and operational functions within the
enterprise.

The Company sells its products through both a direct sales force
and an expanding network of partners, both domestically and
internationally. These partners provide additional
implementation resources, domain expertise and complementary
applications using the Company s software products. The
Company continues to

15

Table of Contents   

focus its efforts selling and marketing the licensing and
maintenance of its products while increasing the engagement of
partners to provide consulting services on the implementation
and integration of its product.

Historically, the Company also provided CRM software solutions.
However, the Company decided to focus its efforts, including
development, sales and marketing, on its BPM and BI products. In
the first quarter of 2003, the Company sold certain assets
relating to its customer relationship management solutions
( CRM Assets ) (For more information regarding the
sale of the CRM Assets, the Company refers the reader to the
discussion contained in Note 13 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company s operating
results reflect the operations of the CRM Assets up through its
sale, which occurred on January 21, 2003, followed by the
sale of the Company s German CRM assets, which was
consummated on March 17, 2003. The Company is currently
only selling BPM and BI products and related services. The
Company s 2005 and 2004 revenues are comprised solely of
sales from its BPM/ BI products.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations discusses the Company s
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reporting period. Management bases its
estimates and assumptions on expected or known trends or events,
historical experience and various other factors that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results
of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent
from other sources. Actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Management believes the following critical accounting policies,
among others, involve the more significant judgments and
estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial
statements.

Revenue Recognition   

Revenue from software licensing and service fees is recognized
in accordance with Statement of Position ( SOP ) 97-2,
 Software Revenue Recognition , and SOP 98-9
 Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to Certain
Transactions.  Substantially all of the Company s
product license revenue is earned from the license of
 off-the -shelf software
requiring no customization. Accordingly, the Company recognizes
revenue from software licensing when all of the following
criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement
exists via a signed agreement or purchase order;
(2) delivery has occurred including authorization keys;
(3) the fee is fixed or determinable representing amounts
that are due unconditionally with no future obligations under
customary payment terms; and (4) collectibility is probable.

For contracts with multiple elements (e.g., delivered and
undelivered products, support obligations, consulting, and
training services), the Company determines the amount of revenue
to allocate to the licenses sold with services or maintenance
using the  residual method  of accounting. Under the
residual method, the Company allocates the total value of the
arrangement first to the undelivered elements based on their
vendor specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) and the
remainder to the delivered element, the software license. The
Company has determined fair value based upon prices it charges
customers when these elements are sold separately. Maintenance
contracts are generally sold with the initial licenses. The
related maintenance revenue is deferred based upon VSOE, which
is determined by the renewal price of the annual maintenance
contract, and is recognized ratably over the maintenance
contract period. The Company recognizes consulting and training
service revenues, including those sold with license fees, as the
services are performed based upon their established VSOE.

In those instances in which indirect channel partners provide
certain support services under the maintenance support contracts
to the end-user customer, the Company accounts for amounts
received in these arrangements in accordance with Emerging
Issues Task Force 99-19,  Reporting Revenue Gross as a
Principal versus Net as an Agent.  The Company must make
certain judgments in these types of

16

Table of Contents   

arrangements including whether the Company or the indirect
channel partner is the primary obligor in the arrangement with
the end-user customer.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   

The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for
estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers
to make required payments. The Company continuously monitors
collections and payments from its customers and determines the
allowance for doubtful accounts based upon analysis of aged
accounts receivable, historical experience and specific customer
collection issues. An allowance for doubtful accounts is
provided for accounts that management believes may not be
collected due to a customer s financial circumstance (e.g.
bankruptcy), and for those accounts that have aged over
180 days past due, for which there is a lack of evidence
that supports their collectibility. If the financial condition
of the Company s customers were to deteriorate, resulting
in an impairment of their ability to make payments, or the
Company s overdue receivables balance were to increase
significantly, additional allowances may be required.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets and Related
    Impairment   

In assessing the recoverability of the Company s goodwill
and other intangible assets, the Company must make assumptions
regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors
including legal factors, market conditions and operational
performance of its acquired businesses to determine the fair
value of the respective assets. If these estimates or their
related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be
required to record impairment charges for these assets. If
events change and the Company has overestimated the economic
life of its intangible asset, the Company will begin to amortize
the remaining unamortized carrying value of this asset over the
newly estimated life, which may result in additional
amortization expense.

Restructuring   

During 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded charges in connection
with its restructuring programs. These charges include estimates
pertaining to the settlements of contractual obligations,
including the restructuring of its UK office and Westborough, MA
headquarters  leases. Although the Company does not
anticipate significant changes, the actual costs may differ from
these estimates, which would result in incremental charges or
credits to the income statement and have cash flow ramifications.

Income Taxes   

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109,
 Accounting for Income Taxes 
( SFAS 109 ), which requires that deferred tax
assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for
the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax
bases of recorded assets and liabilities. SFAS 109 also
requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation
allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all
of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Company
evaluates quarterly the realizability of its deferred tax assets
by assessing its valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount
of such allowance, if necessary. At December 31, 2005 and
2004, the Company s U.S. deferred tax assets were
fully reserved. In the event the Company were to determine in
the future that it would be able to realize its deferred tax
assets in excess of its net-recorded amount, an adjustment to
the deferred tax asset would increase income in the period such
determination was made.

The Company has provided for potential amounts due in various
foreign tax jurisdictions. Judgment is required in determining
the Company s worldwide income tax expense provision. In
the ordinary course of global business, there are many
transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is
uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of
cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities. Although
management believes its estimates are reasonable, no assurance
can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will
not be different from that which is reflected in the
Company s historical income tax provisions and accruals.
Such differences could have a material impact on the
Company s income tax provision and operating results in the
period in which such determination is made.

17

Table of Contents   

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Revenues 

Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005
increased $6,063,000, or 20%, to $36,978,000 from $30,915,000
for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in total
revenues from the prior year was comprised of increases of
$3,260,000 in software license revenues and $2,803,000 in
professional services and maintenance revenues.

Software Licenses   

Software license revenue increased by $3,260,000 to $19,488,000,
or 53% of total revenues, in 2005 from $16,228,000, or 52% of
total revenues, in 2004. The increase in software license
revenues was largely due to the strengthening of our worldwide
field operations, resulting primarily from additions to the
sales operations made in the second half of 2004 and in 2005, as
well as the continued development and enhancements to the
Company s product offerings. These efforts led to the
Company expanding its customer base, domestically and
internationally, and successfully competing in broader and
higher value deals. The increase in deal size is reflected in
the number of transactions resulting in software license revenue
in excess of $100,000 which nearly doubled to 33 in 2005 from 17
in 2004.

Domestic software license revenue increased 22% to $7,055,000 in
2005 from $5,767,000 in 2004. International software license
revenue increased 19% to $12,433,000 in 2005 from $10,461,000 in
2004. The increase in international software license revenue was
primarily due to increased revenues of approximately
$1.6 million over 2004 achieved through sales by our
Australian subsidiary to customers in the Asia Pacific region.

The Company markets its products through its direct sales force
and indirect partners. The Company continues to focus on
complementing its direct sales force with indirect channel
partners, which consist of value added resellers
( VARs ), independent distributors, sales agents and
original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ).

Professional Services and Maintenance   

Professional services and maintenance revenues increased by 19%
to $17,490,000 in 2005 as compared to $14,687,000 in 2004.
Maintenance revenues increased 17% to $15,553,000 in 2005
compared to $13,274,000 in 2004, while professional services
revenues increased 37% to $1,937,000 in 2005 compared to
$1,413,000 in 2004. The increase in maintenance revenue was
primarily attributable to the sale of software licenses to new
customers coupled with high rates of renewals of annual
maintenance contracts from the sale of licenses in prior
periods. The increase in professional services represented an
increase of approximately $380,000 in consulting revenues
resulting primarily from two significant consulting projects as
well as a $144,000 increase in training revenues. The Company
will continue to rely primarily on its partners to provide
consulting services, including BPM/ BI product implementations,
as the Company focuses on maintenance services,

18

Table of Contents   

which include telephonic support, unspecified product upgrades,
and bug fixes and patches. The Company expects maintenance
revenues to continue to increase due to strong customer
maintenance renewal rates.

Cost of Revenues 

(A)  
     
    Gross margins calculated as a percentage of related revenues. 

Cost of Software License Revenues   

Cost of software license revenues consists primarily of
third-party software royalties, cost of product packaging and
documentation materials, and amortization of capitalized
software costs. Cost of software license revenues as a
percentage of software license revenues was 1% for the year
ended December 31, 2005, compared to 3% for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The improvement in software license
gross margin was primarily due to a decrease of $265,000 in the
amortization of capitalized software development costs for the
year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the prior year.
Capitalized software development costs were fully amortized in
the second quarter of 2004.

Cost of Professional Services and Maintenance
    Revenues   

The cost of professional services and maintenance revenues
consists primarily of personnel salaries and benefits,
third-party consultants, facilities and information system costs
incurred to provide consulting, training and customer support,
and payments to indirect channel partners to provide first level
support to end-user customers. These payments to indirect
channel partners to provide first level support are generally
amortized over the
 12-month  maintenance
support period of the underlying contract with the end-user
customer. Cost of professional services and maintenance revenues
increased by $276,000 to $3,888,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2005 from $3,612,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2004. Gross margin of professional services
and maintenance revenues increased to 78% for the year ended
December 31, 2005 from 75% for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The improvement in gross margin was
primarily due to lower partner maintenance fees as the Company
has reduced the utilization of partners for providing the first
level support to end-user customers in maintenance renewals,
partially offset by an increase in professional service
employees and third-party consulting fees resulting from
increased training and consulting revenues.

19

Table of Contents   

Operating Expenses 

Sales and Marketing   

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and
benefits, commissions and bonuses for the Company s sales
and marketing personnel, field office expenses, travel and
entertainment, promotional and advertising expenses and the cost
of the Company s international operations, which are sales
operations. Sales and marketing expenses increased $4,749,000 to
$15,337,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 from
$10,588,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004. Sales and
marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues were 41%
and 34% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. The increase in sales and marketing expenses was
primarily due to an increase in staffing in sales and marketing,
including specifically an increase to headcount from 35 at
December 31, 2004 to 54 at December 31, 2005 in the
Company s direct sales force and presales technical staff,
as well as an increased investment in marketing programs,
advertising and lead generation activities. The increase was
also attributable to higher sales commission expense based on
increased revenues.

Product Development   

Product development expenses include costs associated with the
development of new products, enhancements of existing products
and quality assurance activities, and consist primarily of
employee salaries and benefits, consulting costs and the cost of
software development tools. Product development expenses
increased $484,000 to $5,269,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2005 from $4,785,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2004. These expenses represented 14% and 15%
of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. The increase in product development expenses
was primarily due to costs related to the departure of the
Company s former Vice President, Product Development,
including severance and stock-based compensation related to
modification of certain stock awards of the terminated
executive. The increase in product development expenses was also
attributable to the utilization of independent consultants and
contractors in certain quality assurance and product
documentation activities as part of the development of new and
existing products. The Company anticipates that it will continue
to devote substantial resources to the development of new
products, new versions of its existing products, including
Applix TM1 and related applications.

General and Administrative   

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of
salaries, benefits and occupancy costs for executive,
administrative, finance, information technology, and human
resource personnel, as well as accounting and legal costs.
General and administrative expenses also include legal costs
(including costs under indemnification obligations to former
executives) associated with the investigation by the SEC related
to the Company s financial restatements for the fiscal
years 2001 and 2002. General and administrative expenses
decreased $1,122,000 to $5,095,000, or 14% of total revenues,
for the year ended December 31, 2005 from

20

Table of Contents   

$6,217,000, or 20% of total revenues, for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily due to lower
legal costs associated with the SEC investigation. The decrease
from the prior year was also attributable to a reduction in
allocated rent expense resulting from the Company s
restructuring of its UK office lease in 2004. The Company will
continue to closely monitor general and administrative costs.

Restructuring Expense   

In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company adopted a plan of
restructuring to reduce operating costs. Under this plan, the
Company had ceased to use, and made the determination that it
had no future use of or benefit from, certain space pertaining
to its Westborough headquarters  office lease. The Company
also commenced negotiations with its landlord to settle amounts
related to its lease in general and the abandoned space in
particular. These negotiations were completed in January 2004,
and as a result, the Company was able to estimate the cost to
exit this facility. Additionally, the Company determined that it
would dispose of certain assets, which were removed from service
shortly after the implementation of the plan. As a result of
this restructuring plan, the Company recorded a restructuring
expense of $3,238,000. Restructuring expense included a
$3,000,000 fee paid to the landlord for the abandoned space, an
adjustment of $162,000 to reduce the Company s deferred
rent expense, transaction costs of $350,000 for professional
service fees (brokerage and legal) and $50,000 in non-cash
charges relating to the disposition of certain assets. In the
second quarter of 2004, the Company recorded a credit to the
restructuring charge of $27,000 as a change in estimate due to
lower than anticipated professional service fees. The
restructuring costs were fully paid as of December 31, 2004.

Activity related to the restructuring accrual for the
renegotiation of the Westborough headquarters  office lease
during 2004 was as follows:

In the second quarter of 2004, the Company adopted a plan of
restructuring to reduce operating costs. Under this plan, the
Company made the determination that it had no future use of or
benefit from, certain space pertaining to its UK office lease.
In June 2004, the Company entered into a sublease agreement with
a subtenant for a portion of the Company s UK office lease.
In July 2004, upon exiting the space, the Company recorded a
restructuring charge of approximately $604,000. The
restructuring charge was primarily comprised of the difference
between the Company s contractual lease rate for the
subleased space and the anticipated sublease rate to be realized
over the remaining term of the original lease, discounted by a
credit adjusted risk rate of 8%. The restructuring charge also
consisted of other related professional services, including
legal fees, broker fees and certain build-out costs, incurred in
connection with the exiting of the facility.

Activity related to the restructuring of the UK office lease
during 2004 and 2005 was as follows:

21

Table of Contents   

Amortization of Acquired Intangible Asset   

Amortization expense for the acquired intangible asset, customer
relationships, associated with the Dynamic Decisions acquisition
in March 2001 was $250,000 for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. The amortization expense will
continue to be ratably amortized through the first quarter of
2007.

Non-Operating Income (Expenses) 

Interest and Other Income, Net   

Interest and other income, net consists primarily of interest
income, interest expense and gains and losses on foreign
currency exchange fluctuations.

Interest and other income, net decreased to income of $173,000
for the year ended December 31, 2005 from income of
$313,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease
was mainly due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations,
primarily the Euro, the British Pound, and the Australian
dollar, on intercompany balances, which are considered
short-term in nature and are denominated in the Company s
foreign subsidiaries  local currencies. In particular, the
Company recorded a loss on foreign exchange of approximately
$292,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to
a gain of $407,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004.
The decrease in interest and other income, net was partially
offset by an increase in interest income due to higher interest
rates earned on higher average cash and short-term investments
balances.

Net Gain from Sale of CRM Assets   

In the first quarter of 2003, the Company completed the sale of
certain assets relating to its CRM Assets to iET Acquisition,
LLC ( iET ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Platinum
Equity Holdings, LLC for $5,750,000 in cash consideration, of
which $487,000 was paid back as of December 31, 2003 to iET
for net working capital adjustments. The sale excluded
approximately $2,800,000 in net accounts receivable generated
from the sale of CRM products and services. Accordingly, the
Company recorded a net gain before tax of $7,910,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2003, which includes net cash
consideration of $5,263,000 and $3,552,000 of net liabilities
assumed by iET less transaction costs of $905,000.

During 2004, the Company reversed an accrual related to the sale
of the CRM Assets since there were no identified remaining
transaction costs or post-closing adjustments. This reversal
resulted in an adjustment of approximately $261,000 to the net
gain from the sale of the CRM Assets. The Company does not
anticipate any further adjustments relating to the sale of the
CRM Assets.

Provision for Income Taxes   

The provision for income taxes represents the Company s
federal and state income tax obligations as well as foreign tax
provisions. The Company s provision for income taxes was
$357,000 and $225,000 for years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. The effective tax rates were significantly
less than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily as a
result of the anticipated utilization of domestic net operating
loss carryforwards, which have resulted in the release of a
portion of the previously established valuation allowance. The
effective tax rate was further decreased by the favorable
resolution of a matter with tax authorities in the United
Kingdom relating to transfer pricing effected in prior years.
The reversal of the related tax contingency reserve resulted in
a tax benefit of approximately $320,000 in the year ended
December 31, 2005. The tax provision was also impacted by
foreign deferred income tax expense (benefit) of $250,000 and
$(496,000) for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Total revenues in 2004 increased 13% to $30,915,000 compared to
$27,355,000 in 2003. Revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2003 include $1,252,000 from the
Company s CRM Assets, which was sold during the first
quarter of 2003. Software license revenue increased $3,006,000
in 2004 to $16,228,000 from $13,222,000 in 2003. Domestic
software license revenue increased 36% to $5,767,000 in 2004
from $4,244,000

22

Table of Contents   

in 2003. This increase in software license revenue was partially
attributable to the Company s first-ever license
transaction in excess of $1 million completed in the fourth
quarter of 2004. International software license revenue
increased 17% to $10,461,000 in 2004 from $8,978,000 in 2003.

Professional services and maintenance revenues increased by 4%
to $14,687,000 in 2004 as compared to $14,133,000 in 2003.
Maintenance revenues increased 20% to $13,274,000 in 2004
compared to $11,096,000 in 2003, while professional services
revenues decreased 53% to $1,413,000 in 2004 compared to
$3,037,000 in 2003. The increase in maintenance revenue was
primarily attributable to the sale of software licenses to new
customers coupled with high rates of renewals of annual
maintenance contracts from the sale of licenses in prior
periods. The decreases in professional services revenue were
primarily due to the Company s greater reliance on its
partners to perform these services.

Gross margin increased to 87% in 2004 from 74% in 2003. Software
license revenue gross margin increased to 97% in 2004 from 86%
in 2003, which was primarily due to a decrease of $930,000 in
the amortization of capitalized software development costs for
the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the prior
year. Capitalized software development costs were fully
amortized in the second quarter of 2004. The decrease was also
attributable to a reduction of $540,000 in third-party software
royalties paid by the Company in 2004 compared to 2003.
Professional services and maintenance revenue gross margin
increased to 75% in 2004 from 63% in 2003. This improvement in
gross margin was due to the Company s decrease in the
number of professional service employees as a result of
transfers in conjunction with the sale of the CRM Assets in the
first quarter of 2003 as well as the change in revenue mix from
lower margin consulting revenues to higher margin maintenance
revenues.

Sales and marketing expenses decreased $159,000 to $10,588,000
for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $10,747,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2003. Sales and marketing
expenses as a percentage of total revenues were 34% and 39% for
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The decrease in sales and marketing expenses was primarily due
to a decrease in sales and marketing costs related to its CRM
product and decreases in sales and marketing employees and their
related salaries as a result of transfers in conjunction with
the sale of the CRM Assets in the first quarter of 2003.

Product development expenses decreased $727,000 to $4,785,000
for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $5,512,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2003. These expenses represent
15% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004,
as compared to 20% of total revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The decrease in product development
expenses was primarily due to the transfer of product
development employees in conjunction with the sale of the CRM
Assets in the first quarter of 2003. The decrease was also
attributable to a reduction in allocated rent expense resulting
from the Company s restructuring of its headquarters 
lease in January 2004.

General and administrative expenses decreased $1,436,000, to
$6,217,000, or 20% of total revenues, for the year ended
December 31, 2004 from $7,653,000, or 28% of total
revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2003. The 2004
decrease was primarily due to executive severance costs and
stock-based compensation expenses related to certain executive
stock options being lower than in 2003. The decrease was also
attributable to a reduction in allocated rent expense for 2004,
resulting from the Company s restructuring of its
headquarters  lease in January 2004.

In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company adopted a plan of
restructuring to reduce operating costs. Under this plan, the
Company ceased to use, and made the determination that it had no
future use of or benefit from, certain space pertaining to its
Westborough headquarters  office lease. The Company also
commenced negotiations with its landlord to settle amounts
related to its lease in general and the abandoned space in
particular. These negotiations were completed in January 2004,
and as a result, the Company was able to estimate the cost to
exit this facility. Additionally, the Company determined that it
would dispose of certain assets, which were removed from service
shortly after the implementation of the plan. As a result of
this restructuring plan, the Company recorded restructuring
expense of $3,238,000, which included a $3,000,000 fee paid to
the landlord for the abandoned space, an adjustment of $162,000
to reduce the Company s deferred rent expense, transaction
costs of $350,000 for professional service fees (brokerage and
legal) and $50,000 in non-cash charges relating to the
disposition of certain assets. In the second quarter of

23

Table of Contents   

2004, the Company recorded a credit to the restructuring charge
of $27,000 as a change in estimate due to lower than anticipated
professional service fees. The restructuring charge was fully
paid as of December 31, 2004.

In the second quarter of 2004, the Company adopted a plan of
restructuring to reduce operating costs. Under this plan, the
Company made the determination that it had no future use of or
benefit from, certain space pertaining to its UK office lease.
In June 2004, the Company entered into a sublease agreement with
a subtenant for a portion of the Company s UK office lease.
In July 2004, upon exiting the space, the Company recorded a
restructuring charge of approximately $604,000. The
restructuring charge was primarily comprised of the difference
between the Company s contractual lease rate for the
subleased space and the anticipated sublease rate to be realized
over the remaining term of the original lease, discounted by a
credit adjusted risk rate of 8%. The restructuring charge also
consisted of related professional services, including legal
fees, broker fees and certain build-out costs, incurred in
connection with the exiting of the facility.

Compensation expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles
consists primarily of contingent cash consideration relating to
the Company s March 2001 acquisition of Dynamic Decisions
and the amortization of identified intangible assets, consisting
of customer relationships, associated with the acquisition. For
the year ended 2003, the Company recorded compensation expense
related to these contingent payments of $583,000. Amortization
expense for the customer relationships associated with the
Dynamic Decisions acquisition was $250,000 for the years ended
2004 and 2003, respectively. All contingent amounts due for the
Dynamic Decisions acquisition had been paid in 2003 and no
further amounts are due.

Interest and other income (expense) decreased to income of
$313,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared
to income of $933,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003.
The decrease was primarily due to a lower net gain on foreign
currency exchange fluctuations in 2004 compared to 2003 coupled
with a provision of approximately $300,000 recorded in the
fourth quarter of 2004 which represents the Company s
estimated exposure relating to an on-going unclaimed abandoned
property audit by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. This
decrease in other income was offset by a gain recorded in the
second quarter of 2004 of approximately $195,000 relating to the
sale of its French subsidiary in second quarter of 2001. The
Company received $195,000 from the buyer which had been held in
escrow pending the outcome of a tax audit.

In December 2002, the Company sold the stock of its Dutch
subsidiary and recorded a gain from the sale of $141,000. The
transaction included substantially all of the subsidiary s
assets and liabilities and an amendment to the existing
distribution agreement between the Company and the purchaser to
provide the purchaser exclusive rights to resell the
Company s CRM products in the Netherlands. In 2003, the
Company eliminated the gain on the sale as a result of certain
post-closing adjustments and recorded an additional accrual of
transaction costs.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company derives its liquidity and capital resources
primarily from the Company s cash flows from operations.
The Company s cash and cash equivalent balances were
$20,740,000 and $15,924,000 as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively, which excludes restricted cash of $500,000
and $400,000, respectively. The Company s days sales
outstanding ( DSO ) in accounts receivable was
65 days as of December 31, 2005, compared with
59 days as of December 31, 2004.

Cash provided by the Company s operating activities was
$7,314,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to
cash provided by operating activities of $1,136,000 for the
prior year. Cash provided by operating activities was primarily
due to net income of $6,738,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2005 and increase in deferred revenue of
$1,291,000, partially offset by an increase in accounts
receivable of $2,527,000.

Cash used in investing activities totaled $4,876,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2005 compared to cash provided by
investing activities of $291,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2004. Cash used in investing activities
consisted primarily of the Company s net purchase of
approximately $4,198,000 of short-term investments during 2005.

24

Table of Contents   

Cash provided by financing activities totaled $2,616,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2005, which consisted of proceeds
of $1,724,000 from the issuance of stock under stock plans,
coupled with cash proceeds of $892,000 from the settlement of
certain executive loans. This compares to total cash provided by
financing activities of $5,155,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2004, which included cash proceeds of
$2,989,000, net of issuance costs, from the sale of common stock
in February 2004 to a member of the Company s Board of
Directors, along with another investor who is related to the
Board member.

Cash paid for income taxes by the Company of $380,000 and
$949,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, was primarily due to foreign taxes paid by the
Company s foreign subsidiaries.

The Company has future cash commitments pertaining to its
contractual obligations under its non-cancelable leases. The
Company s future minimum operating and capital lease
payments for its office facilities and certain equipment as of
December 31, 2005 are:

In April 2005, the Company renewed its credit facility, which
provides for loans and other financial accommodations, with
Silicon Valley Bank ( SVB ). The renewed credit
facility is a domestic working capital line of credit with an
interest rate equal to the prime interest rate and is in the
aggregate principal amount of up to the lesser of:
(i) $3,000,000; or (ii) an amount based upon a
percentage the Company s qualifying domestic accounts
receivable. The facility will expire in March 2007.

The Company does not have any off-balance-sheet arrangements
with unconsolidated entities or related parties, and as such,
the Company s liquidity and capital resources are not
subject to off-balance-sheet risks from unconsolidated entities.

For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company
achieved operating profitability and generated positive
operating cash flow. The Company, however, incurred operating
losses and negative cash flows for the last several years prior
to 2004. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had an
accumulated deficit of $33.9 million. Management s
plans include increasing revenues and generating positive cash
flows from operations. The Company currently expects that the
principal sources of funding for its operating expenses, capital
expenditures and other liquidity needs will be a combination of
its available cash and short-term investment balances, funds
expected to be generated from operations, and the SVB credit
facility. The availability of borrowings under the
Company s credit facility is subject to the maintenance of
certain financial covenants and the borrowing limits described
above. The Company believes that the sources of funds currently
available will be sufficient to fund its operations for at least
the next 12 months. However, there are a number of factors
that may negatively impact the Company s available sources
of funds. The amount of cash generated from or used by
operations will be dependent primarily upon the successful
execution of the Company s business plan, including
increasing revenues and reinvesting into its sales and marketing
and product development. If the Company does not meet its plans
to generate sufficient revenue or positive cash flows, it may
need to raise additional capital or reduce spending.

New Accounting Pronouncements   

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 123(R),
 Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123R ).
This Statement is a revision of SFAS No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  and
supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and its
related implementation guidance. SFAS 123R requires a
company to measure the grant date fair value of equity awards
given to employees in exchange for services and recognize

25

Table of Contents   

that cost over the period that such services are performed. We
adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006 using the
modified-prospective transition method.

Adoption of SFAS 123R will materially increase our stock
compensation expense and decrease our net income and basic and
diluted earnings per share. However, adoption of SFAS 123R
will have no impact on our financial position. The Company
expects stock-based compensation expense in 2006, relating to
unvested, outstanding stock options as of December 31,
2005, will be in the range of $1.2 million to
$1.5 million. The Company also expects that the additional
grants of share-based awards will further increase our stock
compensation expense to be recorded in 2006. These assumptions
are highly subjective and changes in these assumptions would
materially affect the Company s estimates. SFAS 123R
also requires that the excess tax benefits related to stock
compensation be reported as a cash inflow from financing
activities rather than as a reduction of taxes paid in cash from
operations.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
FAS115-1/124-1,  The meaning of Other-Than-Temporary
Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments
 ( FSP FAS 115-1/124-1 ). This position amends
FASB Statements No. 115,  Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities , and No. 124,
 The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common
Stock.  This position specifies guidance to be used in
determining whether an investment is other than temporarily
impaired. This position is effective for reporting periods
beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not
expect adoption of this statement to have a material impact on
its financial position or results of operations.

Item 7A.  
     
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
    Risk    

As a multinational corporation, the Company is exposed to market
risk, primarily from changes in foreign currency exchange rates,
in particular the British pound, the Euro and the Australian
dollar. These exposures may change over time and could have a
material adverse impact on the Company s financial results.
Most of the Company s international sales through its
subsidiaries are denominated in foreign currencies. Although
foreign currency exchange rates have fluctuated significantly in
recent years, the Company s exposure to changes in net
income, due to foreign currency exchange rates fluctuations, in
the Company s foreign subsidiaries is mitigated to some
extent by expenses incurred by the foreign subsidiary in the
same currency. The Company s primary foreign currency
exposures relate to its short-term intercompany balances with
its foreign subsidiaries, primarily the Australian dollar. The
Company s foreign subsidiaries have functional currencies
denominated in the Euro, Australian dollar, British pound and
Swiss franc. Intercompany transactions denominated in these
currencies are remeasured at each period end with any exchange
gains or losses recorded in the Company s consolidated
statements of operations. During 2005, the Company reported a
net loss on foreign exchange of approximately $292,000 in its
Consolidated Financial Statements of Operations, primarily due
to unfavorable movements in the Australian dollar exchange rate.
Based on foreign currency exposures existing at
December 31, 2005, a 10% unfavorable movement in foreign
exchange rates related to the British pound, Euro, Australian
dollar, and Swiss franc would result in an approximately
$706,000 reduction to earnings. The Company has currently not
engaged in activities to hedge these exposures.

At December 31, 2005, the Company held $20,740,000 in cash
and cash equivalents, excluding $500,000 of restricted cash,
consisting primarily of money market funds, and $4,198,000 in
short-term investments. Cash equivalents are classified as
available for sale and carried at fair value, which approximates
cost. Short-term investments are classified as available for
sale and carried at amortized cost, which approximates their
fair value. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would
not have a material impact on the fair market value of these
instruments due to their short maturity and the Company s
intention that all the securities will be sold within one year.

26

Table of Contents   

Item 8.  
     
       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

Supplemental Quarterly Financial Data   

Financial Statements   

The Company s Consolidated Financial Statements are listed
under Item 15 of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  and are
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  
     
       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

Not applicable.

Item 9A.  
     
       Controls and Procedures    

The Company s management, with the participation of the
Company s chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005.
The term  disclosure controls and procedures , as
defined in
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e)  under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ),
means controls and other procedures of a company that are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
a company in the reports that it files or submits under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported,
within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and
forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without
limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by a

27

Table of Contents   

company in the reports that it files or submits under the
Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the
company s management, including its principal executive and
principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosures. Management recognizes
that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed
and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving
their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment
in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls
and procedures. Based on the evaluation of the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005,
the Company s chief executive officer and chief financial
officer concluded that, as of such date, the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the
reasonable assurance level.

No change in the Company s internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in
Rules  13a-15(f) 
and  15d-15(f)  under the
Exchange Act) occurred during the fiscal quarter ended
December 31, 2005 that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.  
     
       Other Information    

Not applicable.

PART III 

Item 10.  
     
       Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant    

The response to this item is contained in part under the caption
 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 
in Part I of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K,  and in
part in the Company s Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 8, 2006 (the
 2006 Proxy Statement ) in the sections entitled
 Board of Directors and Corporate Governance
Information   Members of the Board of Directors ,
 Board of Directors and Corporate Governance
Information   Director Candidates ,  Other
Matters   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance ,  Board of Directors and
Corporate Governance Information   Board
Committees,  and  Board of Directors and Corporate
Governance Information   Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics,  which sections are incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 11.  
     
       Executive Compensation    

The response to this item is contained in the 2006 Proxy
Statement in the section entitled  Executive Compensation
And Related Matters , which section is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 12.  
     
       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

The response to this item is contained in the 2006 Proxy
Statement in the sections entitled  General Information
About the Annual Meeting   Beneficial Ownership of
Voting Stock ,  Executive Compensation and Related
Matters   Equity Compensation Plan Disclosure 
and  Executive Compensation and Related Matters  
Retention Arrangements , which sections are incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 13.  
     
       Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions    

The response to this item is contained in the 2006 Proxy
Statement in the section entitled  Executive Compensation
and Related Matters   Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions , which section is incorporated herein
by reference.

28

Table of Contents   

Item 14.  
     
       Independent Registered Public Accountant Fees and
    Services    

The information required by this item is contained in the 2006
Proxy Statement  Proposal 3   Ratification
of Selection of Independent Auditors   Independent
Registered Public Accountants  Fees And Other
Matters , which section is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV 

Item 15.  
     
        Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    

(a) The following are filed as part of this Annual
Report on
Form  10-K.  

1.  Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial
Statement Schedule are filed as a part of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

2.  Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules. 

All schedules have been omitted because the required information
either is not applicable or is shown in the financial statements
or notes thereto

3.  Exhibits. 

The exhibits filed as a part of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  are as
follows:

29

Table of Contents   

30

Table of Contents   

Management contract or compensatory plan. 

31

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf as of March 31, 2006
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Applix, Inc.

By:  
     
    /s/  David C. Mahoney

David C. Mahoney 

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed by the following persons in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/  David C. Mahoney 
     
     David C. Mahoney 

President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive
    Officer) 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Milton A. Alpern 
     
     Milton A. Alpern 

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer (Principal Financial
    and 
    Accounting Officer) 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  John D. Loewenberg 
     
     John D. Loewenberg 

Chairman of the Board of Directors 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Bradley D. Fire 
     
     Bradley D. Fire 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Peter Gyenes 
     
     Peter Gyenes 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Alain J. Hanover 
     
     Alain J. Hanover 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Charles F. Kane 
     
     Charles F. Kane 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

32

Table of Contents   

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements  

33

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Applix, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Applix, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders  equity and
comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to
have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal
control over financial reporting. Our audits included
consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a
basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion
on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An
audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Applix, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

/s/  Deloitte &
Touche
 LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

March 31, 2006

34

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

(In thousands, except share and par value amounts) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

35

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

(In thousands, except per share amounts) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

36

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 

(In thousands, except share amounts) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

37

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

38

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1.  
     
     THE COMPANY  

Applix, Inc. (the  Company ) is a global provider of
Business Performance Management ( BPM ) and Business
Intelligence ( BI ) applications based on
Applix s TM1. TM1 applications enable continuous strategic
planning, management and monitoring of performance across the
financial and operational functions within the enterprise. The
Company s products represent one principal business
segment, which the Company reports as its continuing operations.

Historically, the Company also provided customer relationship
management ( CRM ) software solutions. The Company
sold certain assets relating to its CRM software solutions (the
 CRM Assets ) in the first quarter of 2003 (See
Note 13). The Company s operating results include
those from its CRM software solutions up through the sale of the
CRM Assets, which occurred on January 21, 2003, followed by
a March 17, 2003 sale of certain assets relating to the
German CRM operations.

2.  
     
     SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Principles of Consolidation   

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Applix, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries. All intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated.

Reclassification   

Changes in restricted cash balances of $(100,000), $417,000 and
$117,000 have been reported as cash flows from investing
activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Cash flows resulting from changes in restricted cash balances
had previously been reported as cash flows from operating
activities.

Use of Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements and accompanying notes
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Estimates and assumptions in these financial statements relate
to, among other items, the useful lives of property and
equipment and intangible assets, domestic and foreign income tax
liabilities, valuation of deferred tax assets, the allowance for
doubtful accounts and accrued liabilities.

Revenue Recognition   

The Company generates revenues mainly from licensing the rights
to use its software products and providing services. The Company
sells products primarily through a direct sales force, indirect
channel partners and original equipment manufacturers
( OEMs ). The Company accounts for software revenue
transactions in accordance with Statement of Position
( SOP ) 97-2,  Software Revenue
Recognition,  as amended. Revenues from software
arrangements are recognized when:

Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, which is typically
    when a non-cancelable sales and software license agreement has
    been signed, or purchase order has been received; 

Delivery has occurred. If the assumption by the customer of the
    risks and rewards of its licensing rights occurs upon the
    delivery to the carrier (FOB Shipping Point), then delivery
    occurs upon shipment (which is typically the case). If
    assumption of such risks and rewards occurs upon delivery to the 

39

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

customer (FOB Destination), then delivery occurs upon receipt by
    the customer. In all instances, delivery includes electronic
    delivery of authorization keys to the customer; 

The customer s fee is deemed to be fixed or determinable
    and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties; 

Collectibility is probable; and 

Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value exists for all
    undelivered elements, typically maintenance and professional
    services. 

The Company uses the residual method under SOP 98-9,
 Modification of
SOP  97-2,  Software
Revenue Recognition with Respect to Certain Transactions .
Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered
elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the
arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements and is
recognized as revenue, assuming all other conditions for revenue
recognition have been satisfied. Substantially all of the
Company s product revenue is recognized in this manner. If
the Company cannot determine the fair value of any undelivered
element included in an arrangement, the Company will defer
revenue until all elements are delivered, until services are
performed or until fair value of the undelivered elements can be
objectively determined. In circumstances where the Company
offers significant and incremental fair value discounts for
future purchases of other software products or services to its
customers as part of an arrangement, utilizing the residual
method, the Company defers the value of the discount and
recognizes such discount to revenue as the related product or
service is delivered.

As part of an arrangement, end-user customers typically purchase
maintenance contracts and in certain instances, professional
services. Maintenance services include telephone and Web-based
support as well as rights to unspecified upgrades and
enhancements, when and if the Company makes them generally
available. Substantially all of the Company s software
license revenue is earned from perpetual licenses of
 off-the -shelf software
requiring no modification or customization. Therefore,
professional services are deemed to be non-essential to the
functionality of the software and typically are for
implementation planning, loading of software, training, building
simple interfaces and running test data.

Revenues from maintenance services are recognized ratably over
the term of the maintenance contract period, which is typically
one year, based on vendor specific objective evidence of fair
value. Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value is based
upon the amount charged when maintenance is sold separately,
which is typically the contract s renewal rate.

Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized on a
time and material basis as services are delivered. Based upon
the Company s experience in completing product
implementations, these services are typically delivered within
three months or less subsequent to the contract signing.
Revenues from professional services are generally recognized
based on vendor specific objective evidence of fair value when:
(1) a non-cancelable agreement for the services has been
signed or a customer s purchase order has been received;
and (2) the professional services have been delivered.
Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value is based upon
the price charged when these services are sold separately and is
typically a daily rate for professional services and a per class
rate for training.

The Company s license arrangements with its end-user
customers and indirect channel partners do not include any
rights of return or price protection, nor do arrangements with
indirect channel partners typically include any sell-through
contingencies. In those instances where the Company has granted
a customer rights to when-and-if available additional products,
the Company recognizes the arrangement fee ratably over the term
of the agreement.

Generally, the Company s arrangements with end-user
customers and indirect channel partners do not include any
acceptance provisions. In those cases in which specific customer
acceptance criteria are included in the arrangement, the Company
defers the entire arrangement fee and recognizes revenue,
assuming all

40

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

other conditions for revenue recognition have been satisfied,
when acceptance has been obtained as generally evidenced by
written acceptance by the customer. The Company s
arrangements with indirect channel partners and end-user
customers do include a standard warranty provision whereby the
Company will use reasonable efforts to cure material
nonconformity or defects of the software from the Company s
published specifications. The standard warranty provision does
not provide the indirect channel partners or end-user customer
with the right of refund.

At the time the Company enters into an arrangement, the Company
assesses the probability of collection of the fee and the
payment terms granted to the customer. For end-user customers
and indirect channel partners, the Company s typical
payment terms are due within 30 to 90 days of the invoice
date. If the payment terms for the arrangement are considered
extended (generally, if payment is due greater than
90 days), the Company defers revenue under these
arrangements and such revenue is recognized, assuming all other
conditions for revenue recognition have been satisfied, when the
payment of the arrangement fee becomes due.

In some instances, indirect channel partners provide first level
maintenance services to the end-user customer and the Company
provides second level maintenance support to the indirect
channel partner. The Company accounts for amounts received in
these arrangements in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force
99-19,  Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net
as an Agent . When the Company receives a net fee from the
indirect channel partner to provide second level support to the
indirect channel partner, this amount is recorded as revenue
over the term of the maintenance period at the net amount
received because the Company: (1) does not collect the fees
from the end-user customer (2) does not have latitude in
establishing the price paid by the end-user customer for
maintenance services and (3) does not have the latitude to
select the supplier providing first level support. However, in
circumstances where the Company renews maintenance contracts
directly with the end-user customers, receives payment for the
gross amount of the maintenance fee, has the ability to select
the supplier for first level support, and the Company believes
that it is the primary obligor for first level support to the
end customer, the Company records revenue for the gross amounts
received. In such circumstances, the Company remits a portion of
the payment received to the indirect channel partner to provide
first level support to the end-user customer, and such amounts
are capitalized and amortized over the maintenance period. Under
these arrangements, the Company recorded revenue over the
related maintenance periods which aggregated to $433,000,
$864,000 and $705,000 for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Cash and Cash Equivalents   

Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments,
including money market accounts, with a remaining maturity of
three months or less at time of purchase. Cash and cash
equivalents are carried at amortized cost, which approximates
their fair value. Cash equivalents totaled $20,740,000 and
$15,924,000 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, $400,000 of restricted
cash represents the required collateral on the Company s
lease of its headquarters located in Westborough, Massachusetts.

Short-term Investments   

Short-term investments are classified as  available for
sale  and recorded at amortized cost which approximates
their fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are included in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
effects. Realized gains or losses are determined based on the
specific identified cost of the securities. Any unrealized
losses that are considered to be  other than
temporary  are charged immediately to the income statement.

41

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Concentrations of Credit Risk, Accounts Receivable and
    Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   

The Company s financial instruments that are exposed to
concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash, cash
equivalents, short-term investments and trade receivables. The
Company maintains cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments with high credit quality financial institutions and
monitors the amount of credit exposure to any one financial
institution.

The Company extends credit to its customers in the normal course
of business, resulting in trade receivables. The Company s
normal credit terms are 30 to 90 days.

The Company performs continuing credit evaluations of its
customers  financial condition, and although the Company
generally does not require collateral, letters of credit may be
required from its customers in certain circumstances. An
allowance for doubtful accounts is provided for customer
accounts receivable, which management believes may not be
collectible.

The following table of qualifying accounts provides a
rollforward of the allowance for doubtful accounts for each of
the years ended December 31, (in thousands):

Property and Equipment   

Property and equipment are recorded at cost. Assets are
depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives of the related assets (2 to 6 years) as
detailed below. Assets financed through capital lease agreements
are depreciated by the straight-line method over the lease term.

Estimated  

Useful Life  

Asset Type  
       
      (In Years)  

Office furniture

6 

Leasehold improvement

5 

(or life of lease, whichever is shorter) 

Equipment

3 

Computer equipment

3 

Software

2 to 5 

During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company performed a
physical inventory of its fixed assets after the discovery that
certain of its fully depreciated fixed assets could not be
located. As a result, the Company

42

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

wrote down approximately $10 million of gross fixed assets
and accumulated depreciation yielding a loss on disposal of
property and equipment of approximately $99,000 which was
recorded during the fourth quarter of 2004. Additionally, the
Company recorded a loss of approximately $4,000 during 2005 on
the disposal of property and equipment with a gross value
totaling approximately $185,000.

Product Development Costs   

Product development costs are expensed as incurred until
technological feasibility has been established, at which time
such costs are capitalized until the product is available for
general release to customers. The Company considers
technological feasibility to be achieved when a product design
and working model of the software product have been completed
and the software product is ready for initial customer testing.
Capitalized software development costs are then amortized on a
product-by-product basis over the estimated product life of
between one to two years and are included in the cost of
software license revenue.

The Company evaluates the net realizable value of capitalized
software on an annual basis, relying on a number of factors
including demand for a product, operating results, business
plans and economic projections. In addition, the Company
considers non-financial data such as market trends, product
development cycles and changes in management s market
emphasis. The Company evaluates the net realizable value of its
capitalized software based primarily on actual and forecasted
sales and records a charge to write-down the carrying value if
factors indicate that the carrying value will not be realizable.

There were no software development costs that qualified for
capitalization during the years ended December 31, 2005 or
2004. Amortization expense related to software development cost
was $265,000 and $1,195,000 (which includes $249,000 of
write-down to its net realizable value in 2003) for the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, there were no capitalized
software development costs.

Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets   

The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually or more
frequently upon occurrence of certain events or circumstances.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually using a two-step
process. First, the Company determines if the fair value of its
 reporting unit  exceeds the carrying amount of the
reporting unit. If the fair value does not exceed the carrying
amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired,
and the Company must then measure the impairment loss by
comparing the  implied fair value  of the goodwill, as
defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
( SFAS 142 ), to its carrying amount. The fair
value of the reporting unit at September 30, 2005 and 2004
was estimated using the Market Value Approach. At
September 30, 2005 and 2004, the Company evaluated its
goodwill and determined that the fair value had not decreased
below the carrying value. To date, no impairment adjustments
have been recorded.

Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, typically
6 years. No impairment adjustments have been recorded to
date.

Amortization expense related to the Company s sole
intangible asset, the customer relationships acquired in the
Dynamic Decisions acquisition, totaled $250,000 during 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively. The estimated future annual
amortization expense for this intangible asset remaining as of
December 31, 2005 is as follows:

43

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Long-lived assets primarily include property and equipment and
intangible assets with finite lives (customer-related
intangibles). In accordance with SFAS No. 144,
 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets,  The Company periodically reviews long-lived assets
for impairment whenever events or changes in business
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets
may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of those
assets are no longer appropriate. We base each impairment test
on a comparison of the undiscounted cash flows to the recorded
value of the asset. If impairment is indicated, we write down
the asset to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash
flow analysis. No impairment adjustments have been recorded to
date.

Income Taxes   

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS
No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes,  which requires
the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities relating
to the expected future tax consequences of events that have been
recognized in the Company s consolidated financial
statements and tax returns. A valuation allowance is established
against net deferred tax assets if, based on the weighted
available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all
of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. As permitted by
Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 23,
Accounting for Income Taxes   Special Areas, provisions for
income taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries
that are considered permanently invested are not recognized in
the Company s consolidated financial statements.

Net Income (Loss) Per Share   

Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net
income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the period. Dilutive net income (loss) is
computed using the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect, if any,
of potential incremental common shares, determined through the
application of the treasury stock method under
SFAS No. 128  Earnings Per Share  to the
stock options outstanding during the period.

44

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Common stock equivalents (stock options) of 114,771, 554,905 and
3,691,040 were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings
per share for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively, because these options were anti-dilutive as
either the Company reported a net loss for the period or the
stock option exercise price exceeded the average market price
for the respective periods. However, these options could be
dilutive in the future.

Foreign Currency Translation   

The Company considers the functional currency of its foreign
subsidiaries to be the local currency, and accordingly, the
financial statements of the foreign subsidiaries are translated
into U.S. dollars using exchange rates in effect at the
period end for assets and liabilities and average exchange rates
during each reporting period for the results of operations.
Adjustments resulting from translation of foreign subsidiary
financial statements are reported on the balance sheet in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within
stockholders  equity. The Company has determined that its
intercompany payables and receivables balances with its foreign
subsidiaries are short-term in nature and as a result, the
Company re-measures these balances at each period end and
records any related foreign currency gains and losses in its
consolidated statements of operations. The short-term
intercompany balances with its foreign subsidiaries are
denominated in the British pound, the Euro, the Australian
dollar, and the Swiss franc. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net loss of
$292,000 on foreign exchange in its consolidated statements of
operations, primarily due to the strengthening U.S. dollar
against the Australian dollar and the Euro. For the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, foreign exchange net gains
recorded in the consolidated statements of operations totaled
$407,000 and $945,000, respectively, primarily as a result of
the strengthening Euro, British pound and Australian dollar
against the U.S. dollar.

Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

Components of comprehensive income (loss) include net income
(loss) and certain transactions that have generally been
reported in the consolidated statements of stockholders 
equity. Other comprehensive income (loss) includes gains and
losses from foreign currency translation adjustments and
unrealized gains and losses on short-term investments.

Advertising Expense   

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense
amounted to $244,000, $62,000 and $34,000 in 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.

Stock-Based Compensation   

The Company periodically grants stock options for a fixed number
of shares to employees and directors with an exercise price
equal to the fair market value of the shares at the date of the
grant. The Company accounts for stock option grants to employees
and directors using the intrinsic value method. Under the
intrinsic value method, compensation associated with stock
awards to employees and directors is determined

45

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

as the difference, if any, between the current fair value of the
underlying common stock on the date compensation is measured and
the price the employee or director must pay to exercise the
award. The measurement date for employee awards is generally the
date of grant.

For purposes of pro forma disclosure, the fair value of the
Company s stock-based awards to employees are estimated
using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. The fair value
of the Company s stock-based awards to employees was
estimated assuming no expected dividends and the following
weighted average assumptions:

If compensation expense had been recorded based on the fair
value of stock awards at the date of grant, the Company s
net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share would have
been adjusted to the pro forma amounts presented below (in
thousands, except for per share amounts):

New Accounting Pronouncements   

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 123(R),
 Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123R ).
This Statement is a revision of SFAS No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  and
supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and its
related implementation guidance. SFAS 123R requires a
company to measure the grant date fair value of equity awards
given to employees in exchange for services and recognize that
cost over the period that such services are performed. In April
2005, the SEC announced that the SFAS 123R effective
transition date will be extended to the first annual period
beginning after June 15, 2005. We adopted SFAS 123R on
January 1, 2006 using the modified-prospective transition
method.

Adoption of SFAS 123R will materially increase our stock
compensation expense and decrease our net income and basic and
diluted earnings per share. However, adoption of SFAS 123R
will have no impact on our financial position. The Company
expects stock-based compensation expense in 2006, relating to
unvested,

46

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

outstanding stock options as of December 31, 2005, will be
in the range of $1.2 million to $1.5 million. The
Company also expects that the additional grants of share-based
awards will further increase our stock compensation expense to
be recorded in 2006. These assumptions are highly subjective and
changes in these assumptions would materially affect the
Company s estimates. SFAS 123R also requires that the
excess tax benefits related to stock compensation be reported as
a cash inflow from financing activities rather than as a
reduction of taxes paid in cash from operations.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
FAS115-1/124-1,  The meaning of Other-Than-Temporary
Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments
 ( FSP FAS 115-1/124-1 ). This position amends
FASB Statements No. 115,  Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities , and No. 124,
 The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common
Stock.  This position specifies guidance to be used in
determining whether an investment is other than temporarily
impaired. This position is effective for reporting periods
beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not
expect adoption of this statement to have a material impact on
its financial position or results of operations.

3.  
     
     DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

On March 31, 2001, the Company completed the sale of the
VistaSource business, including all of its domestic and foreign
operations. The Company s results of operations for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 included costs
of $100,000, $106,000 and $177,000, respectively. These costs
primarily relate to legal and accounting costs associated with
the dissolution of the VistaSource business in Europe.

4.  
     
     SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS  

The Company s short-term investments were as follows (in
thousands):

As of December 31, 2005, all short-term investments mature
in less than one year. Realized gains and losses were
insignificant for 2005.

Included in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2005
is approximately $6,041,000 of short-term investments considered
to be cash equivalents, as the maturity dates of such
investments were three months or less when purchased.

5.  
     
     ACCRUED EXPENSES  

Accrued expenses at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consisted of
the following (in thousands):

47

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

6.  
     
     INCOME TAXES  

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes was
taxed under the following jurisdictions (in thousands):

The approximate tax effect of each type of temporary difference
and carryforward is as follows (in thousands):

48

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The following schedule reconciles the difference between the
federal income tax rate and the effective income tax rate for
continuing operations (in thousands):

The effective tax rate during 2005 was significantly less than
the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily as a result of
the utilization of domestic net operating loss carryforwards,
which have resulted in the adjustment to the corresponding
portion of the previously established valuation allowance.
During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company also
benefited from the favorable resolution of a matter with tax
authorities in the United Kingdom relating to transfer pricing
effected in prior years. The reversal of the related tax
contingency reserve resulted in a tax benefit of approximately
$320,000, and is included in the foreign tax rate differentials.

The Company had federal net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $16,222,000 and $21,030,000 at December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company also had tax credit
carryforwards of approximately $3,405,000 and $3,507,000 at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
Company s tax credit carryforwards as of December 31,
2005 consisted of $3,087,000 of federal and state research tax
credits and $318,000 of alternative minimum tax credits and
state investment tax credits. These net operating loss
carryforwards and credits expire in various amounts through 2023.

A valuation allowance is established if it is more likely than
not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be
realized. As a result of the Company s review of its
available evidence supporting the deferred tax asset, the
Company continues to provide a valuation allowance for the full
amount of the U.S. deferred tax asset due to the
uncertainty of realization. The valuation allowance decreased
during 2005, primarily due to the utilization of federal and
state net operating loss carryforwards. Any subsequently
recognized tax benefits relating to the valuation allowance for
deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2005 would be
allocated as follows (in thousands):

Under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, certain
substantial changes in the Company s ownership may have
limited, or may limit in the future, the amount of net operating
loss carryforwards which could be utilized annually to offset
future taxable income and income tax liabilities. The amount of
any annual limitation is determined based upon the
Company s value prior to an ownership change.

The Company has provided for potential amounts due in various
foreign tax jurisdictions. Judgment is required in determining
the Company s worldwide income tax expense provision. In
the ordinary course of global business, there are many
transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is
uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of
cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities. Although
management believes its estimates are reasonable, no assurance
can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will
not be different from that which is reflected in the
Company s historical

49

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have
a material impact on the Company s income tax provision and
operating results in the period in which such determination is
made.

The Company has been notified by the Massachusetts Department of
Revenue that it will be subject to an audit of its Massachusetts
state income tax returns for 2002, 2003 and 2004, for which
fieldwork is scheduled to commence in May 2006. At this time,
the Company cannot reasonably estimate an assessment, if any,
that would result from this audit. Accordingly, no provision has
been made in the financial statements. However, it is possible
that provisions may be required in future periods if it becomes
probable that an amount could be assessed and that amount can be
reasonably estimated.

7.  
     
     STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY  

Preferred Stock   

The Company has 1,000,000 authorized shares of Preferred Stock,
$0.01 par value per share. The Board of Directors is
authorized to fix designations, relative rights, preferences and
limitations on the preferred stock at the time of issuance. As
of December 31, 2005, none of the preferred stock was
issued and outstanding.

Common Stock   

The Company has 30,000,000 authorized shares of Common Stock,
$0.0025 par value per share. As of December 31, 2005
and 2004, 14,923,894 and 14,290,584 shares of common stock
were issued and outstanding, respectively.

On February 27, 2004, a member of the Company s Board
of Directors along with another investor, who is related to the
Board member, purchased a total 657,894 shares of common
stock for approximately $3,000,000. The board member and the
other investor each purchased 328,947 shares of common
stock. The purchase price of the shares was $4.56 per
share, which represents the average of the last reported sales
price per share of Applix common stock on the NASDAQ Capital
Market over the five consecutive trading days ending
February 26, 2004.

During 2003, the Company issued 15,000 shares to an
employee resulting in stock-based compensation expense of
approximately $23,000.

Treasury Stock   

Effective July 1, 2004, companies incorporated in
Massachusetts became subject to the Massachusetts Business
Corporation Act, Chapter 156D. Chapter 156D provides
that shares that are reacquired by a company become authorized
but unissued shares. As a result, Chapter 156D eliminated
the concept of  treasury shares.  Accordingly, at
September 30, 2004, the Company redesignated its existing
treasury shares, at an aggregate cost of approximately
$1,309,000, as authorized but unissued shares and has allocated
this amount to the common stock par value and additional paid-in
capital.

Common Stock Purchase Rights   

On September 15, 2000, the Board of Directors of the
Company declared a dividend of one right for each outstanding
share of the Company s common stock at the close of
business on October 2, 2000. Under certain circumstances,
each right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the
Company one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock, $0.01 par value per share
(the  Preferred Stock ), at a purchase price of $42.00
in cash, subject to adjustment.

The rights are not exercisable and cannot be transferred
separately from the common stock until the earlier of
(i) 10 business days following the later of (a) the
first date of a public announcement that a person or group of
affiliated or associated persons (an  Acquiring
Person ) has acquired (or obtained the right to

50

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

acquire) beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding
shares of common stock or (b) the first date on which an
executive officer of the Company has actual knowledge that an
Acquiring Person has become such (the  Stock Acquisition
Date ), or (ii) 10 business days (or such later date
as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company)
following the commencement of a tender offer or exchange offer
that would result in a person or group beneficially owning 15%
or more of the outstanding shares of common stock (the earlier
of (i) and (ii) being the  Distribution
Date ).

In the event that any person becomes an Acquiring Person, unless
the event causing the 15% threshold to be crossed is a Permitted
Offer (as defined in the Rights Agreement), each holder of a
right, with certain exceptions, shall have the right to receive,
upon exercise, in lieu of the Preferred Stock, that number of
shares of common stock (or in certain circumstances, cash,
property or other securities of the Company) that equals the
exercise price of the right divided by 50% of the current market
price (as defined in the Rights Agreement) per share of common
stock at the date of the occurrence of such event. However, the
rights are not exercisable following such event until the time
that the rights are no longer redeemable by the Company as
described below. Notwithstanding the foregoing, following such
event, all rights that are, or (under certain circumstances
specified in the Rights Agreement), were, beneficially owned by
any Acquiring Person will be null and void. Following such
event, subject to certain conditions, the Board of Directors of
the Company may exchange the Rights (other than rights owned by
such Acquiring Person which have become void), in whole or in
part, at an exchange ratio of one share of common stock, or one
one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock, per right, subject
to adjustment.

In the event that, at any time after any person becomes an
Acquiring Person, (i) the Company is consolidated with, or
merged with and into, another entity and the Company is not the
surviving entity of such consolidation or merger (other than a
consolidation or merger which follows a Permitted Offer) or if
the Company is the surviving entity, but shares of its
outstanding common stock are not changed or exchanged for stock
or securities (of any other person) or cash or any other
property, or (ii) more than 50% of the Company s
assets or earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of a
right shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise,
that number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company
that equals the exercise price of the right divided by 50% of
the current market price (as defined in the Rights Agreement) of
such common stock at the date of the occurrence of the event.

The rights have certain anti-takeover effects, in that they
would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that
attempts to acquire a significant interest in the Company on
terms not approved by the Board of Directors of the Company. The
rights expire on September 18, 2010 (the  Final
Expiration Date ), but may be redeemed by the Company in
whole, but not in part, for $0.001 per right (the
 Redemption Price ), payable in cash or stock, at
any time prior to (i) the tenth business day after the
Stock Acquisition Date, or (ii) the Final Expiration Date.
Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the
Company ordering redemption of the rights, the rights will
terminate and the only right of the holders of the rights will
be to receive the Redemption Price. The rights may also be
redeemable following certain other circumstances specified in
the Rights Agreement. Rights shall be issued (i) in respect
of each new share of common stock issued after October 2,
2000 but prior to the earlier of the Distribution Date or the
Final Expiration Date and (ii) in connection with the
issuance or sale of common stock following the Distribution Date
but prior to the Final Expiration Date upon the exercise of
stock options or under any employee benefit plan or arrangement,
or upon the exercise, conversion or exchange of securities,
granted or issued by the Company prior to the Distribution Date.

On February 27, 2004, the Company amended its Rights
Agreement. The amendment provided that the Board member
purchasing shares of common stock on that date, as described
above, and any person or entity deemed to be affiliated or
associated with him shall not be considered an  Acquiring
Person , as defined under the Rights Agreement, unless the
board member together with affiliates become the beneficial
owner of 20% or more of the shares of common stock of the
Company then outstanding.

51

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Stock Option Plans   

The Company has a number of stock award plans, which provide for
the grant or issuance of options, restricted common stock, and
unrestricted common stock. These plans are administered by the
compensation committee of the board of directors, and allow for
grants to employees, non-employee directors of the Company, or
to non-employees. Option grants can be in the form of either
incentive stock options or non-qualified options. Exercise
prices are set at the date of grant and are required to be at
fair value, in the case of incentive stock options, or at the
discretion of the compensation committee, in the case of
non-qualified stock option. Awards to non-employee directors
must be at no less than the fair value of the common stock on
the date of grant.

Awards to employees require approval by the Board of Directors
compensation committee. Awards generally vest in equal
installments over four to five year periods. There are generally
no performance conditions attached to employee awards, other
than continued employment by the Company. Awards have a
contractual life of 7 years.

On May 27, 2004, the stockholders approved the 2004 Equity
Incentive Plan (the  2004 Plan ) previously adopted by
the Board of Directors in the first quarter of 2004. Under the
2004 Plan, up to 1,000,000 shares of common stock (subject
to adjustment in the event of stock splits and other similar
events) may be issued pursuant to awards granted under the 2004
Plan. On June 9, 2005, the stockholders approved an
amendment to the Company s 2004 Equity Incentive Plan to
increase the number of shares of common stock authorized for
issuance thereunder from 1,000,000 to 2,000,000 shares of
common stock. As of December 31, 2005, there were
931,875 shares available for grant under the 2004 Plan.

In 2003, the Board of Directors adopted, and the stockholders
approved, the 2003 Director Equity Plan (the
 2003 Director Plan ). The 2003 Director
Plan provides for the grant of non-statutory options not
intended to meet the requirements of the Section 422 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Only directors of the
Company who are not full-time employees ( Non-Employee
Directors ) of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company
are eligible to be granted awards under the Plan. A total of
300,000 shares of the Company s common stock may be
issued under the 2003 Director Plan. Any shares subject to
options granted pursuant to the 2003 Director Plan which
terminate or expire unexercised will be available for future
grants under the 2003 Director Plan. The 2003 Director
Plan is administered by the Board of Directors of the Company.
The directors are elected by the stockholders of the Company in
accordance with the provisions of the Restated Articles of
Organization, as amended, and the By-Laws of the Company. Under
the 2003 Director Plan, the stock options must be granted
with an exercise price of no less than the fair market value of
the stock on the date of grant.

Pursuant to the 2003 Director Plan, each Non-Employee
Director receives an automatic grant of common stock and an
option for the purchase of common stock on January 1 of each
year, beginning January 1, 2004 (except that a grant of
common stock with respect to 2003 which occurred on the date
that the 2003 Director Plan was approved by the
stockholders in June 2003). Each Non-Employee Director receives
an amount of common shares as determined in accordance with the
2003 Director Plan including whether the Director serves on
a Board committee. Except for Election Grants, both the grant of
shares and options are contingent upon attendance by the
Non-Employee Director at least 75% of the meetings of the Board
of Directors and any committees on which he or she served in the
preceding year. Each new Non-Employee Director receives an
option to purchase 10,000 shares of common stock upon
such director s initial election to the Board of Directors
(an  Election Grant ). Each option will become
exercisable (or  vest ), with respect to Election
Grants, in two equal annual installments on the first and second
anniversary of the date of grant, and with respect to all other
options, on the first anniversary of the date of grant, provided
in each case that the optionee continues to serve as a director
on such date. The Board of Directors may suspend, discontinue or
amend the 2003 Director Plan. During 2005, 2004 and 2003,
there were 11,976, 17,094 and

52

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

29,558 shares issued under the 2003 Director Plan,
respectively. Issuances of these shares resulted in stock-based
compensation expense of $60,000, $60,000 and $120,000 during
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of December 31, 2005,
there were 141,372 shares available for grant under the
2003 Director Plan.

Information with respect to activity under the various stock
option plans is as shown below:

Information regarding options outstanding and exercisable as
December 31, 2005, under the various stock plans is as
follows:

At December 31, 2005, 4,541,059 shares of common stock
were reserved for future issuance under the stock plans, which
include stock options outstanding and stock options available
for future grant.

At December 31, 2004 and 2003, there were 1,341,237 and
1,778,766 exercisable options, respectively, with weighted
average exercise prices of $3.14, and $4.90, respectively.

53

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The weighted average grant date fair values for options granted
were $3.51, $2.55 and $1.03, in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan   

On February 26, 2001, the Board of Directors adopted, and
on May 4, 2001, the stockholders approved the
Company s Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( 2001
Plan ), which authorized the issuance of up to
800,000 shares of common stock, allowing eligible employees
to purchase common stock, in a series of offerings, through
payroll deductions of up to 10% of their total compensation. The
purchase price in each offering is 85% of the fair market value
of the stock on either (i) the offering commencement date
or (ii) the offering termination date (six months after
commencement date), whichever is lower. On May 27, 2004,
the stockholders approved an amendment to the 2001 Employee
Stock Purchase Plan, previously adopted by the Board of
Directors in the first quarter of 2004, increasing the total
number of shares reserved for issuance by an additional
500,000 shares of common stock to an aggregate of
1,300,000 shares of common stock. During 2005, 2004 and
2003, there were 107,956, 134,358 and 235,591 shares issued
under the 2001 Plan, respectively. At December 31, 2005,
383,771 shares were available for issuance under the 2001
Plan.

Notes Receivable from Stock Purchase
    Agreements   

In September 2000, the Company sold 256,002 shares of
common stock to certain company executives. None of such
individuals are currently executive officers of the Company. The
purchase of such shares was funded by loans from the Company to
the executives evidenced by full-recourse promissory notes due
and payable on July 31, 2005. Interest on the promissory
notes was calculated on the unpaid principal balance at a rate
of 6% per year, compounded annually until paid in full. In
the event that the executive sold any shares prior to
July 31, 2005, the net proceeds from such sale would have
become immediately due and payable without notice or demand. In
the event the executive left the Company, voluntarily or for
cause, the loan would have become immediately due and payable.
Repayment terms were extended to the original maturity date for
several employees who subsequently left the Company. The
aggregate principal amount of the notes totaled $1,120,000 at
December 31, 2002. Certain of these loans had been past due
for some time, and subsequent to December 31, 2002, in
connection with a severance arrangement the Company forgave one
of the loans. As a result of the foregoing, consistent with
EITF  00-23, 
 Issues Related to the Accounting for Stock Compensation
under APB Opinion No. 25 and FASB Interpretation 44 ,
for accounting purposes only, the Company has characterized all
of the notes as non-recourse. In this regard, the accounting for
these notes has been treated as a repurchase of stock and the
issuance of options. During the year ended December 31,
2002, the Company recorded a charge of $964,000 for the
difference between the amounts due on the loans, including
accrued interest of $128,000, and the fair value of the
underlying stock at December 31, 2002.

In February 2004, the Company collected approximately $231,000
as part of the settlement of three of the outstanding executive
loans. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, there were no
amounts reflected on the Company s Consolidated Balance
Sheets as owed on these notes for accounting purposes only. In
February 2005, the Company collected approximately $892,000 as
part of the repayment of the remaining outstanding executive
loans. The repayment in 2005 was accounted for as an option
exercise in accordance with the provisions of EITF 95-16,
 Accounting for Stock Compensation Arrangements with
Employer Loan Features under APB Opinion No. 25 
and has been recorded in additional paid-in capital As of
December 31, 2005, there were no amounts outstanding for
any of the executive loans.

8.  
     
     EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN  

The Company has a defined contribution 401(k) plan (the
 Plan ), in which all full time employees are eligible
to participate once they have attained 21 years of age. The
Company may make discretionary contributions to the Plan as
determined by the Board of Directors. Employee contributions
vest immediately

54

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

while employer contributions vest fully after two years of
employment. The Company s matching contribution to the Plan
was $145,000, $117,000 and $113,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

9.  
     
     MAJOR CUSTOMER AND GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION  

The Company and its subsidiaries are principally engaged in the
design, development, marketing and support of the Company s
business performance management and business intelligence
software products (See Note 1). The Company generates
substantially all of its revenues from the licensing of the
Company s software products and related professional
services and maintenance services. Financial information
provided to the Company s chief operating decision maker is
accompanied by disaggregated information about revenues and
expenses by geographic region for purposes of making operating
decisions and assessing each geographic region s financial
performance. The Company had only one operating segment at
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.

A summary of the Company s operations by geographic
locations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 is as follows (in thousands):

A summary of the Company s long lived assets by geographic
locations as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 is as follows
(in thousands):

10.  
     
     BANK CREDIT FACILITIES  

In April 2005, the Company renewed its credit facility, which
provides for loans and other financial accommodations, with
Silicon Valley Bank ( SVB ). The renewed credit
facility is a domestic working capital line of credit with an
interest rate equal to the prime interest rate and is in the
aggregate principal amount of up to the lesser of:
(i) $3,000,000; or (ii) an amount based upon a
percentage the Company s qualifying domestic accounts
receivable. The facility will expire in March 2007. The Company
did not make any borrowings under its credit facility during
2005 or 2004. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, there were
no amounts outstanding under this credit facility.

55

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

11.  
     
     CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION  

On March 31, 2001, the Company acquired all of the
outstanding capital stock of Dynamic Decisions Pty Limited, its
primary Australian reseller, to improve its market presence and
increase the Company s sales in the Pacific Rim region, for
total cost of $5,867,000 consisting of maximum cash
consideration of $5,150,000, transaction costs of $490,000 and
100,000 shares of the Company s common stock, which
had a fair market value at the date of acquisition of $227,000.
According to the terms of the share purchase agreement, the
total maximum cash consideration relating to the purchase of
Dynamic Decisions was $5,150,000 payable in 10 installments
over a maximum of 30 months beginning on July 1, 2001.
Of the 10 installments, two of the installments totaling
$1,267,000 were guaranteed and paid in 2001 and accounted for as
purchase price. The remaining eight installments were contingent
upon the employment of the two key employees, who were former
shareholders of Dynamic Decisions, and therefore were being
accounted for as compensation expense within operating expenses.
These eight installments were expensed ratably on a
straight-line basis over the employees  contractual
employment period, which commenced on April 1, 2001 and
ended on March 31, 2003. For the year ended
December 31, 2003, the Company recorded compensation
expense related to these contingent payments of $583,000.

12.  
     
     SALE OF SUBSIDIARIES  

In December 2002, the Company sold the stock of its Dutch
subsidiary, a remote sales office, and recorded a gain from the
sale of $141,000. The transaction included substantially all of
the subsidiary s assets and liabilities and an amendment to
the existing distribution agreement between the Company and the
purchaser to provide the purchaser exclusive rights to resell
the Company s CRM products in the Netherlands. In 2003, the
Company eliminated the gain on the sale as a result of certain
post-closing adjustments and the additional accrual of
transaction costs.

In the second quarter of 2004, the Company recorded a gain in
other income of approximately $195,000 relating to the sale of
its French subsidiary which occurred in the second quarter of
2001. The Company received $195,000 from the buyer, which was
released from escrow upon completion of a tax audit.

13.  
     
     NET GAIN FROM SALE OF CRM ASSETS  

In the first quarter of 2003, the Company completed the sale of
the CRM Assets to iET Acquisition, LLC ( iET ), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Platinum Equity Holdings, LLC for
$5,750,000 in cash consideration, of which $487,000 was paid to
iET for net working capital adjustments and $3,552,000 in net
assumed liabilities. The sale excluded approximately $2,800,000
in net accounts receivable generated from the sale of CRM
products and services.

iET paid $4,250,000 of the Purchase Price in cash at the initial
closing and paid an additional $1,500,000 in cash on
March 17, 2003 upon the completion of the closing of
certain assets of the Company s German subsidiary, Applix
GmbH. During the period of the initial closing and completion of
the Company s German subsidiary closing, Applix GmbH
continued to resell the CRM software products sold to iET, and
to provide professional services and maintenance support under a
reseller s agreement between the Company and iET.

The Company s results for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2003 included CRM license revenues of $253,000
and CRM professional services and maintenance revenues of
$999,000.

The Company recorded a net gain before tax of $7,910,000, which
includes net cash consideration of $5,263,000 and $3,552,000 of
net liabilities assumed by iET less transaction costs of
$905,000. The purchase price was subject to certain post closing
adjustments relating to the net working capital as set forth in
the Asset Purchase Agreement between the Company and iET, dated
January 21, 2003.

56

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

During 2004, the Company reversed an accrual related to the sale
of the CRM Assets as all remaining transaction costs and
post-closing adjustments had been recorded. This reversal
resulted in an increase of approximately $261,000 to the net
gain from the sale of the CRM Assets. The Company does not
anticipate any further adjustments relating to the sale of the
CRM Assets.

14.  
     
     RESTRUCTURING EXPENSES  

In 2003 and 2004, the Company adopted several plans of
restructuring aimed at reducing operating costs company-wide,
strengthening the Company s financial position, and
reallocating resources to pursue the Company s future
operating strategies.

In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company adopted a plan of
restructuring to reduce operating costs. Under this plan, the
Company had ceased to use and made the determination that it had
no future use for or benefit from certain space pertaining to
its Westborough headquarters  office lease. The Company
also commenced negotiations with its landlord to settle amounts
related to its lease in general and the vacated space in
particular. These negotiations were completed in January 2004,
and as a result, the Company was able to estimate the cost to
exit this facility. Additionally, the Company had determined
that it would dispose of certain assets, which were removed from
service shortly after the implementation of the plan. In
connection with the restructuring plan, the Company recorded
restructuring expense for this space of $3,238,000. The
restructuring expense included a $3,000,000 fee paid to the
landlord for the vacated space, an adjustment of $162,000 to
reduce the Company s deferred rent expense, transaction
costs of $350,000 for professional service fees (brokerage and
legal) and $50,000 in non-cash charges relating to the
disposition of certain assets. In the second quarter of 2004,
the Company recorded a credit to the restructuring charge of
$27,000 as a change in estimate due to lower than anticipated
professional service fees. The restructuring charge was fully
paid as of December 31, 2004.

The accrued restructuring expenses, as well as the
Company s adjustments, payments and write-offs made against
accruals are detailed as follows:

In the second quarter of 2004, the Company adopted a plan of
restructuring to reduce operating costs. Under this plan, the
Company made the determination that it had no future use for or
benefit from, certain space pertaining to its UK office lease.
In June 2004, the Company entered into a sublease agreement with
a subtenant for a portion of the Company s UK office lease.
In July 2004, upon exiting the space, the Company recorded a
restructuring charge of approximately $604,000. The
restructuring charge was primarily comprised of the difference
between the Company s contractual lease rate for the
subleased space and the anticipated sublease rate to be realized
over the remaining term of the original lease, discounted by a
credit adjusted risk rate of 8%. The restructuring charge also
consisted of other related professional services, including
legal fees, broker fees and certain build-out costs, incurred in
connection with the exiting of the facility. The Company expects
to make payments relating to this restructuring until the lease
expires in March 2010.

57

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Restructuring charges accrued and unpaid at December 31,
2005, including current and long term portions of $44,000 and
$186,000, respectively, were as follows:

15.  
     
     RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  

On December 29, 2003, the Company licensed its product to a
customer whose chief executive officer and president serves on
the Company s Board of Directors. The amount paid by this
customer was $50,000, which also included first year s
maintenance.

For the year ended December 31, 2003, software license
revenues and cost of software license revenues include sales and
royalty expenses incurred in connection with a reseller
agreement between the Company and Beachware Pty Ltd
( Beachware ) whose owners were also employees of the
Company. During 2003, the Company recorded $810,000 in revenues
and incurred royalty expenses of $514,000 related to Beachware
product sales. In December 2003, the Company terminated the
employment of the two principal owners of Beachware, who were
former shareholders of Dynamic Decisions. The two former
employees continued to resell the Company s product under
terms of a reseller agreement entered into with the Company in
December 2003.

On February 27, 2004, a member of the Company s Board
of Directors along with another investor, who is related to the
Board member, purchased a total 657,894 shares of common
stock for approximately $3,000,000. The Board member and the
other investor each purchased 328,947 shares of common
stock. The purchase price of the shares was $4.56 per
share, which represents the average of the last reported sales
price per share of Applix common stock on the NASDAQ Capital
Market over the five consecutive trading days ending
February 26, 2004.

16.  
     
     EXECUTIVE TERMINATION COSTS  

On February 27, 2003, the Company entered into a Severance
Agreement with an executive of the Company. Pursuant to this
agreement, the Company agreed to pay the executive
15 months of salary and provide the executive certain
medical benefits during the
 15-month  period after
his termination. In addition, the Company forgave all
outstanding principal and interest due under a Secured
Promissory Note dated July 30, 2000 in the principal amount
of $225,000, executed pursuant to the Company s Executive
Stock Loan Purchase Program. Pursuant to the Severance
Agreement, the executive transferred to the Company
51,429 shares of the Company s common stock, which
were held by the Company in treasury as of December 31,
2003, which was stock the executive had purchased using the
funds loaned to the executive pursuant to such Secured
Promissory Note. During the first quarter of 2003, the Company
recorded $356,000 in costs related to the termination of
employment of the executive. The severance amounts were to be
paid in 15 equal installments, and were fully paid as of
December 31, 2004.

In the second quarter of 2003, the Company entered into
Severance Agreements with two executives. Pursuant to their
agreements, the Company agreed to pay the executives their
salary and provide the executives certain benefits including
medical during their severance period. During the second quarter
of 2003, the Company recorded $206,000 in costs related to the
termination of the executives, and $103,000 in stock-

58

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

based compensation related to modifications to stock awards to
one of the executives. The severance amounts were paid in equal
installments. In the third quarter, the Company recorded an
adjustment of $37,000 for changes in the estimated severance
amounts for one of these executives. There is no remaining
unpaid balance as of December 31, 2004.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company entered into a
Severance Agreement with an executive of the Company. Pursuant
to this agreement, the Company agreed to pay the executive their
salary and provide the executive certain benefits including
medical during their severance period. During the fourth quarter
of 2005, the Company recorded $65,000 in costs related to the
termination of the executive and $155,000 in stock-based
compensation related to modifications to stock awards. The
severance amounts are to be paid in equal installments. The
remaining unpaid balance as of December 31, 2005 was
$48,000.

17.  
     
     COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

Contingencies   

From time to time, the Company is subject to routine litigation
and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. The
Company is not aware of any pending litigation to which the
Company is or may become a party, that the Company believes
could result in a material adverse impact on its consolidated
results of operations or financial condition.

On January 4, 2006, the Company reached a settlement with
the Securities and Exchange Commission concerning the SEC s
investigation, which commenced in 2003, relating to the
restatement of the Company s financial statements for
fiscal years 2001 and 2002. The settlement does not require the
Company to pay a monetary penalty. As part of the settlement,
the Company has consented to a cease and desist order requiring
future compliance with Federal securities laws and regulations,
and has retained a consultant to assist the Company in reviewing
its compliance procedures.

In connection with this investigation, the Company is subject to
indemnification obligations to certain former executives in
accordance with the Company s Articles of Organization.
Since the Company is unable to estimate the future
indemnification obligations, expenses related to these
obligations are recorded as they become known. Under these
indemnification agreements, the Company incurred legal expenses
of $16,000 and $386,000 during the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company had obligations of
approximately $1,000 and $10,000 recorded in accrued liabilities
as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. If it is
ultimately determined that such executives do not satisfy the
criteria for indemnification set forth in the Company s
Articles of Organization, such executives would be obligated to
repay the Company any amounts advanced by the Company to cover
legal fees or other expenses of defending such investigation.

The Company is currently undergoing an unclaimed abandoned
property ( UAP ) audit by the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts. During 2004, the Company recorded a provision of
approximately $300,000 based on its estimated exposure relating
to the UAP audit. However, it is possible that additional
provisions may be required in future periods if it becomes
probable that the actual results from the ultimate disposition
of the UAP audit differ from this estimate.

Indemnifications   

The Company has frequently agreed to indemnification provisions
in software license agreements with customers and in its real
estate leases in the ordinary course of its business.

With respect to software license agreements, these
indemnifications generally include provisions indemnifying the
customer against losses, expenses, and liabilities from damages
that may be awarded against the customer in the event the
Company s software is found to infringe upon a patent or
copyright of a third party. The software license agreements
generally limit the scope of and remedies for such
indemnification obligations

59

Table of Contents   

APPLIX, INC. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

in a variety of industry-standard respects, including but not
limited to certain geography-based scope limitations, the right
to replace or modify an infringing product, and the right to
terminate the license and refund a portion of the original
license fee within a defined period of time from the original
licensing date if a remedy is not commercially practical. The
Company believes its internal development processes and other
policies and practices limit its exposure related to the
indemnification provisions of the software license agreements.
In addition, the Company requires its employees to sign an
agreement, pursuant to which the Company assigned the rights to
its employees  development work. To date, the Company has
not had to reimburse any of its customers for any losses related
to these indemnification provisions.

With respect to real estate lease agreements, these
indemnifications typically apply to claims asserted against the
landlord relating to personal injury and property damage which
may occur at the leased premises, or to certain breaches of the
Company s contractual obligations. The term of these
indemnification provisions generally survive the termination of
the agreement, although the provision has the most relevance
during the contract term and for a short period of time
thereafter. The maximum potential amount of future payments that
the Company could be required to make under these
indemnification provisions is unlimited. The Company has
purchased insurance that reduces its monetary exposure for
landlord indemnifications. The Company has never paid any
amounts to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these
indemnification provisions. Accordingly, the Company believes
the estimated fair value of these indemnification arrangements
is minimal.

Commitments   

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had future cash
commitments for the payments pertaining to its world-wide
obligations under its non-cancelable operating leases. The
Company s future minimum lease payments for its operating
lease payments for its office facilities and certain equipment
are:

The Company incurred $1,237,000, $1,338,000 and $2,312,000 in
rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively.

60

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

61

Table of Contents   

Management contract or compensatory plan. 

62

<EX-10.17>
 2
 b58500aiexv10w17.txt
 EX-10.17 APPLIX, INC. 2003 DIRECTOR EQUITY PLAN, AS AMENDED

EXHIBIT 10.17

                                  APPLIX, INC.

                            2003 DIRECTOR EQUITY PLAN

1.   Purpose.

     The purpose of this 2003 Director Equity Plan (the "Plan") of Applix, Inc.
(the "Company") is to compensate non-employee directors for their services and
participation in the meetings of the Board of Directors and any committees on
which such director served in the prior year, to encourage ownership in the
Company by non-employee directors of the Company whose services are considered
essential to the Company's future progress and to provide them with a further
incentive to remain as directors of the Company.

2.   Administration.

     The Board of Directors shall supervise and administer the Plan. All
questions concerning interpretation of the Plan or any stock awards or options
granted under it shall be resolved by the Board of Directors and such resolution
shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Plan. The
Board of Directors may, to the full extent permitted by or consistent with
applicable laws or regulations, delegate any or all of its powers under the Plan
to a committee appointed by the Board of Directors, and if a committee is so
appointed, all references to the Board of Directors in the Plan shall mean and
relate to such committee.

3.   Participation in the Plan; Eligibility.

     Directors of the Company who are not employees of the Company or any
subsidiary of the Company ("non-employee directors") shall be eligible to
receive stock awards and options under the Plan, provided he or she attended
(including by telephone or teleconference) at least 75% of the meetings of the
Board of Directors and any committees on which he or she served in the preceding
year, except that such attendance requirement shall not apply to Election Grants
(as defined below).

4.   Stock Subject to the Plan.

     (a)  The maximum number of shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value
$.0025 per share ("Common Stock"), which may be issued under the Plan shall be
300,000 shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 9.

     (b)  If any outstanding option under the Plan for any reason expires or is
terminated without having been exercised in full, the shares covered by the
unexercised portion of such option shall again become available for issuance
pursuant to the Plan.

     (c)  Shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan may consist in whole or
in part of authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares.

5.   Stock Options.

     All options granted under the Plan shall be non-statutory options not
entitled to special tax treatment under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Each option granted under the Plan shall be
evidenced by a written agreement in such form as the Company shall from time to
time approve, which agreements shall comply with and be subject to the following
terms and conditions:

     (a)  Option Grant Dates. Options shall automatically be granted to the
non-employee directors as follows:

          (i)  each person who first becomes a non-employee director on or
  following the date that the Plan is approved by the stockholders of the
  Company shall be granted an option to purchase 10,000 shares of Common Stock
  on the date of his or her election to the Board of Directors (an "Election
  Grant"); and

          (ii) each non-employee director shall be granted an option to purchase
  10,000 shares of Common Stock on January 1 of each year, beginning January 1,
  2004.

     Each date of grant of an option pursuant to this Section 5(a) is
hereinafter referred to as an "Option Grant Date."

     (b)  Option Exercise Price. The option exercise price per share for each
option granted under the Plan shall equal (i) the closing price on any national
securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed, (ii) the closing price
of the Common Stock on the Nasdaq National Market or (iii) the average of the
closing bid and asked prices in the over-the-counter market, whichever is
applicable, as published in The Wall Street Journal, on the Option Grant Date.
If no sales of Common Stock were made on the Option Grant Date, the price of the
Common Stock for purposes of clauses (i) and (ii) above shall be the reported
price for the next preceding day on which sales were made.

     (c)  Transferability of Options. Except as the Board may otherwise
determine or provide in an option granted under the Plan, any option granted
under the Plan to an optionee shall not be transferable by the optionee other
than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable
during the optionee's lifetime only by the optionee or the optionee's guardian
or legal representative. References to an optionee, to the extent relevant in
the context, shall include references to authorized transferees.

     (d)  Vesting Period.

          (i)  General. Each option granted under the Plan shall, in the case of
  an Election Grant, become exercisable in two equal annual installments on the
  first and second anniversaries of the Option Grant Date, and, in the case of
  all other option grants, become exercisable in full on the first anniversary
  of the Option Grant Date; in each case provided that the optionee is serving
  as a director of the Company on such anniversary.

          (ii) Acceleration Upon a Change In Control. Notwithstanding the
  foregoing, each outstanding option granted under the Plan shall immediately
  become exercisable in full

2

upon the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in Section 10) with
  respect to the Company.

          (iii) Right to Receive Restricted Stock. Notwithstanding the
  provisions of Section 5(d)(i) above, the Board shall have the authority to
  grant options pursuant to Section 5(a) above which are immediately exercisable
  subject to the Company's right to repurchase any unvested shares of stock
  acquired by the optionee on exercise of an option in the event such optionee's
  service as a director terminates for any reason.

          (iv) Termination. Each option shall terminate, and may no longer be
  exercised, on the earlier of (i) the date seven years after the Option Grant
  Date of such option or (ii) the date 90 days after the optionee ceases to
  serve as a director of the Company.

     (e)  Exercise Procedure. An option may be exercised only by written notice
to the Company at its principal office accompanied by (i) payment in cash or by
certified or bank check of the full consideration for the shares as to which
they are exercised, (ii) delivery of outstanding shares of Common Stock
(provided such shares of Common Stock, if acquired directly from the Company,
were owned by the exercising non-employee director, and not subject to
repurchase by the Company, for at least six months prior to such delivery)
having a fair market value on the last business day preceding the date of
exercise equal to the option exercise price, or (iii) an irrevocable undertaking
by a creditworthy broker to deliver promptly to the Company sufficient funds to
pay the exercise price or delivery of irrevocable instructions to a creditworthy
broker to deliver promptly to the Company cash or a check sufficient to pay the
exercise price.

     (f)  Exercise by Representative Following Death of Director. An optionee,
by written notice to the Company, may designate one or more persons (and from
time to time change such designation), including his or her legal
representative, who, by reason of the optionee's death, shall acquire the right
to exercise all or a portion of the option. If the person or persons so
designated wish to exercise any portion of the option, they must do so within
the term of the option as provided herein. Any exercise by a representative
shall be subject to the provisions of the Plan.

6.   Stock Awards.

     (a)  Date and Amount of Stock Grant. Each non-employee director shall
receive a grant of Common Stock on (1) the date that the Plan is first approved
by the stockholders of the Company and (2) thereafter, on January 1 of each
year, beginning January 1, 2004, as follows:

          (i)  $5,000 worth of Common Stock to each non-employee director
  serving as a director on such date;

          (ii) an additional $10,000 worth of Common Stock to the non-employee
  director serving as Chairman of the Board of Directors on such date;

          (iii) an additional $2,500 worth of Common Stock to each non-employee
  director serving on the Audit Committee on such date;

3

(iv) an additional $5,000 worth of Common Stock to the non-employee
  director serving as the Chairman of the Audit Committee on such date;

          (v)  an additional $2,500 worth of Common Stock to each non-employee
  director serving on the Compensation Committee on such date;

          (vi) an additional $2,500 worth of Common Stock to the non-employee
  director serving as the Chairman of the Compensation Committee on such date;

          (vii) an additional $2,500 worth of Common Stock to each non-employee
  director serving on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee on such
  date; and

          (viii) an additional $2,500 worth of Common Stock to each non-employee
  director serving on the Strategic Planning Committee on such date.

     (b)  Valuation of Stock Granted. The calculation of the number of shares of
Common Stock to be granted pursuant to Section 6(a) above shall be based upon
the average of (i) the closing price on any national securities exchange on
which the Common Stock is listed, (ii) the closing price of the Common Stock on
the Nasdaq National Market or (iii) the average of the closing bid and asked
prices in the over-the-counter market, whichever is applicable, as published in
The Wall Street Journal, on the five consecutive trading days ending two days
prior to the Option Grant Date.

7.   Withholding. Each non-employee director shall pay to the Company, or make
provision satisfactory to the Board of Directors for payment of, any taxes
required by law to be withheld in connection with stock awards or options to
such non-employee director no later than the date of the event creating the tax
liability. Except as the Board of Directors may otherwise provide, so long as
the Common Stock is registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the "Exchange Act"), non-employee directors may satisfy such tax
obligations in whole or in part by delivery of shares of Common Stock, including
shares issued pursuant to the stock award or option creating the tax obligation,
valued at their fair market value; provided, however, that the total tax
withholding where stock is being used to satisfy such tax obligations cannot
exceed the Company's minimum statutory withholding obligations (based on minimum
statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax purposes, including
payroll taxes, that are applicable to such supplemental taxable income). The
Company may, to the extent permitted by law, deduct any such tax obligations
from any payment of any kind otherwise due to a non-employee director.

8.   Limitation of Rights.

     (a)  No Right to Continue as a Director. Neither the Plan, nor the granting
of an option or stock award hereunder, nor any other action taken pursuant to
the Plan, shall constitute or be evidence of any agreement or understanding,
express or implied, that the Company will retain the optionee as a director for
any period of time.

     (b)  No Stockholders' Rights for Options. An optionee shall have no rights
as a stockholder with respect to the shares covered by his or her option until
the date of the issuance to him or her of a stock certificate therefor, and no
adjustment will be made for dividends or

4

other rights (except as provided in Section 9) for which the record date is
prior to the date such certificate is issued. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in
the event the Company effects a split of the Common Stock by means of a stock
dividend and the exercise price of and the number of shares subject to stock
options are adjusted as of the date of the distribution of the dividend (rather
than as of the record date for such dividend), then an optionee who exercises an
option between the record date and the distribution date for such stock dividend
shall be entitled to receive, on the distribution date, the stock dividend with
respect to the shares of Common Stock acquired upon such option exercise,
notwithstanding the fact that such shares were not outstanding as of the close
of business on the record date for such stock dividend.

     (c)  Compliance with Securities Laws. Each stock award and option shall be
subject to the requirement that if, at any time, counsel to the Company shall
determine that the listing, registration or qualification of the shares subject
to such stock award or option upon any securities exchange or under any state or
federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental or regulatory body,
or the disclosure of non-public information or the satisfaction of any other
condition is necessary as a condition of, or in connection with, the issuance or
purchase of shares pursuant to such stock award or option, the such stock award
may not be issued, and such option may not be exercised, in whole or in part,
unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval, or
satisfaction of such condition shall have been effected or obtained on
conditions acceptable to the Board of Directors. Nothing herein shall be deemed
to require the Company to apply for or to obtain such listing, registration or
qualification, or to satisfy such condition.

9.   Adjustment Provisions for Mergers, Recapitalizations and Related
     Transactions.

     If, through or as a result of any merger, consolidation, reorganization,
recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock
split, or other similar transaction, (i) the outstanding shares of Common Stock
are exchanged for a different number or kind of securities of the Company or of
another entity, or (ii) additional shares or new or different shares or other
securities of the Company or of another entity are distributed with respect to
such shares of Common Stock, the Board of Directors shall make an appropriate
and proportionate adjustment in (w) the maximum number and kind of shares
reserved for issuance under the Plan, (x) the number and kind of shares or other
securities subject to then outstanding options under the Plan, (y) the number
and kind of shares or other securities issuable pursuant to stock options to be
granted pursuant to Section 5(a) hereof, and (z) the price for each share
subject to any then outstanding options under the Plan (without changing the
aggregate purchase price for such options), to the end that each option shall be
exercisable, for the same aggregate exercise price, for such securities as such
optionholder would have held immediately following such event if he had
exercised such option immediately prior to such event. No fractional shares will
be issued under the Plan on account of any such adjustments.

10.  Definition of "Change in Control".

     "Change in Control" means an event or occurrence set forth in any one or
more of subsections (a) through (d) below (including an event or occurrence that
constitutes a Change in Control under one of such subsections but is
specifically exempted from another such subsection):

5

(a)  the acquisition by an individual, entity or group (within the meaning
of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (a "Person") of beneficial
ownership of any capital stock of the Company after the date of adoption of this
Plan by the Board of Directors if, after such acquisition, such Person
beneficially owns (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the
Exchange Act) 50% or more of either (x) the then-outstanding shares of common
stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (y) the
combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the Company entitled
to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting
Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the
following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any
acquisition directly from the Company (excluding an acquisition pursuant to the
exercise, conversion or exchange of any security exercisable for, convertible
into or exchangeable for common stock or voting securities of the Company,
unless the Person exercising, converting or exchanging such security acquired
such security directly from the Company or an underwriter or agent of the
Company), (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any
employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company
or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (D) any acquisition by any
corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (x) and (y) of
subsection (c) of this Section 10; or

     (b)  such time as the Continuing Directors (as defined below) do not
constitute a majority of the Board (or, if applicable, the Board of Directors of
a successor corporation to the Company), where the term "Continuing Director"
means at any date a member of the Board (x) who was a member of the Board on the
date of the initial adoption of this Plan by the Board or (y) who was nominated
or elected subsequent to such date by at least a majority of the directors who
were Continuing Directors at the time of such nomination or election or whose
election to the Board was recommended or endorsed by at least a majority of the
directors who were Continuing Directors at the time of such nomination or
election; provided, however, that there shall be excluded from this clause (y)
any individual whose initial assumption of office occurred as a result of an
actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of
directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents, by
or on behalf of a person other than the Board; or

     (c)  the consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization,
recapitalization or statutory share exchange involving the Company or a sale or
other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in
one or a series of transactions (a "Business Combination"), unless, immediately
following such Business Combination, each of the following two conditions is
satisfied: (x) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were
the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding
Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination
beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the then-outstanding
shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding
securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors,
respectively, of the resulting or acquiring corporation in such Business
Combination (which shall include, without limitation, a corporation which as a
result of such transaction owns the Company or substantially all of the
Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) (such
resulting or acquiring corporation is referred to herein as the "Acquiring
Corporation") in substantially the same proportions as their ownership,
immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the Outstanding Company
Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, respectively, and (y) no
Person (excluding the Acquiring Corporation or any

6

employee benefit plan (or related trust) maintained or sponsored by the Company
or by the Acquiring Corporation) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 30%
or more of the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Acquiring
Corporation, or of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities
of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors
(except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business
Combination); or

     (d)  approval by the stockholders of a complete liquidation or dissolution
of the Company.

11.  Termination and Amendment of the Plan.

     The Board of Directors may suspend or terminate the Plan or amend it in any
respect whatsoever.

12.  Notice.

     Any written notice to the Company required by any of the provisions of the
Plan shall be addressed to the Treasurer of the Company and shall become
effective when it is received.

13.  Governing Law.

     The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto
shall be governed by the internal laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
(without regard to any applicable conflicts of laws or principles).

14.  Effective Date.

     The Plan shall become effective on the date it is adopted by the
stockholders of the Company.

Adopted by the Board of Directors on March
                                   25, 2003. Approved by the stockholders on
                                   June 12, 2003.

7

</EX-10.17>

<EX-10.24>
 3
 b58500aiexv10w24.txt
 EX-10.24 SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION POLICY FOR DIRECTORS OF APPLIX, INC.

EXHIBIT 10.24

SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION POLICY FOR DIRECTORS OF APPLIX, INC.

The following summarizes the compensation policy for directors of Applix, Inc.
(the "Company"):

Cash Compensation

     Employee directors of the Company do not receive compensation for their
services as directors. The non-employee directors receive annual compensation
for their services as directors as follows:

     o    $20,000 to each non-employee director;

     o    an additional $10,000 for the non-employee director serving as the
          Chairman of the Board;

     o    an additional $15,000 for the non-employee director serving as the
          Audit Committee chairman;

     o    an additional $10,000 for the non-employee director serving as the
          Compensation Committee chairman;

     o    an additional $5,000 for the non-employee director serving as the
          Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee chairman;

     o    an additional $5,000 for each non-employee director serving as a
          member of the Strategic Planning Committee;

     o    an additional $2,500 for each non-employee director serving as a
          member of the Audit Committee (excluding the Chairman of the Board and
          any director serving as the chairman of any committee);

     o    an additional $2,500 for each non-employee director serving as a
          member of the Compensation Committee (excluding the Chairman of the
          Board and any director serving as the chairman of any committee); and

     o    an additional $2,500 for each non-employee director serving as a
          member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (excluding
          the Chairman of the Board and any director serving as the chairman of
          any committee).

          In addition, non-employee directors are reimbursed for expenses
incurred in connection with attendance at Board of Directors meetings.

Stock Options

Pursuant to the 2003 Director Equity Plan (the "2003 Director Plan"),
(1) each non-employee director received a stock option for 10,000 shares of
common stock on January 1, 2004, (2) each non-employee director receives a stock
option for 10,000 shares of common stock on January 1 of each year, so long as
he or she continues to serve as a director and provided he or she attended at
least 75% of the meetings of the Board of Directors and any committees on which
he or she served in the preceding year and (3) each new non-employee director
receives a stock option to purchase 10,000 shares of common stock upon such
director's initial election to the Board of Directors (an "Election Grant"). On
January 1, 2006, each of Messrs. Fire, Gyenes, Hanover, Kane and Loewenberg were
granted a stock option for 10,000 shares of common stock. All of the stock
options described above have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of
the common stock on the date of grant. Except for Election Grants, the stock
options become exercisable on the first anniversary of the date of grant (or
upon an earlier change in control of the Company), provided the optionee
continues to serve as a director of the Company on such date; and expire seven
years from the date of grant or 90 days after the optionee ceases to serve as a
director. Election Grants become exercisable in two equal annual installments on
the first and second anniversaries of the date of grant (or upon an earlier
change in control of the Company), provided the optionee continues to serve as a
director of the Company on such date.

Stock Awards

          The non-employee directors automatically receive grants of common
stock of the Company on January 1 of each year as follows:

     o    $5,000 worth of common stock to each non-employee director serving as
          a director on such date;

     o    an additional $10,000 worth of common stock to the non-employee
          director serving as Chairman of the Board of Directors on such date;

     o    an additional $2,500 worth of common stock to each non-employee
          director serving on the Audit Committee on such date;

     o    an additional $5,000 worth of common stock to the non-employee
          director serving as the Chairman of the Audit Committee on such date;

     o    an additional $2,500 worth of common stock to each non-employee
          director serving on the Compensation Committee on such date;

     o    an additional $2,500 worth of common stock to the non-employee
          director serving as the Chairman of the Compensation Committee on such
          date;

     o    an additional $2,500 worth of common stock to each non-employee
          director serving on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
          on such date; and

     o    an additional $2,500 worth of common stock to each non-employee
          director serving on the Strategic Planning Committee (beginning
          January 1, 2007).

Such common stock shall be valued at the average closing price of the
common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market (or such other principal exchange on
which the common stock is then listed, or the average of the closing bid and
asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as applicable) on the five
consecutive trading days ending two days prior to the date of each grant.

</EX-10.24>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 b58500aiexv21w1.txt
 EX-21.1 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit 21.1

SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

Name of Entity                                Jurisdiction of Incorporation
- --------------                                -----------------------------

Applix AG                                     Switzerland

Applix Canada, Inc.                           Delaware

Applix GmbH                                   Germany

Veriteam GmbH                                 Germany

Applix (UK) Limited                           United Kingdom

Veriteam France                               France

Veriteam Limited                              United Kingdom

Applix Securities Corp.                       Massachusetts

Applix Singapore, Inc.                        Delaware

Applix Asia Pacific Pty. Ltd.                 Australia

Dynamic Decisions Pty. Ltd.                   Australia

Sinper Corporation                            Florida

Target Systems Corporation                    Massachusetts

Veriteam, Inc.                                Delaware

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 b58500aiexv23w1.txt
 EX-23.1 CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

EXHIBIT 23.1

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements Nos.
33-89382, 333-02340, 333-06303, 333-16963, 333-20853, 333-52603, 333-80861,
333-39462, 333-57670, 333-63550, 333-97101, 333-107027, 333-117762 and
333-126092 on Form S-8 of our report dated March 31, 2006, relating to the
consolidated financial statements of Applix, Inc., appearing in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K of Applix, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2005.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Boston, Massachusetts
March 31, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 b58500aiexv31w1.txt
 EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.

EXHIBIT 31.1

              CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO
RULE 13a-14(a)/RULE 15d-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED

I, David C. Mahoney, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Applix, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) [Not applicable.]

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.

/s/ David C. Mahoney
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           David C. Mahoney
                                           President and Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 31, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 b58500aiexv31w2.txt
 EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.

EXHIBIT 31.2

              CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO
RULE 13a-14(a)/RULE 15d-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED

I, Milton A. Alpern, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Applix, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) [Not applicable.]

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report)
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.

/s/ Milton A. Alpern
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           Milton A. Alpern
                                           Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

Date: March 31, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 b58500aiexv32w1.txt
 EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.E.O.

EXHIBIT 32.1

          CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED
           PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Applix, Inc. (the
"Company") for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), the
undersigned, David C. Mahoney, President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that:

(1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

(2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date: March 31, 2006                       /s/ David C. Mahoney
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           David C. Mahoney
                                           President and Chief Executive Officer

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 b58500aiexv32w2.txt
 EX-32.2 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE C.F.O.

EXHIBIT 32.2

          CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED
           PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Applix, Inc. (the
"Company") for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), the
undersigned, Milton A. Alpern, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the
Company, hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that:

(1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

(2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date: March 31, 2006                       /s/ Milton A. Alpern
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           Milton A. Alpern
                                           Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

</EX-32.2>

