<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_1158678_0001193125-06-070724_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1611665</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>311441</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>8862</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1050889</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>84</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-06-070724.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331164029
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-06-070724
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001158678
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				541920520
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			VA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-49611
		FILM NUMBER:		06729457

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1601 WASHINGTON PLAZA
		CITY:			RESTON
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			20190

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1601 WASHINGTON PLAZA
		CITY:			RESTON
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			20190

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 DRF9hjl5/ANwnX9OJXkxjhs2nNsozQOYx8Tmm/S/US3ei5Ujf+tMCKUGtas1fNPh
 jf3KTgmaDvAK5vBFQfUvgQ==

 0001193125-06-070724.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549             FORM 10-K             ANNUAL REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934        For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005    
   Commission file number 0-49611             MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION        (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)             
     (703) 464-0100        Registrant s Telephone Number             Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange       on which registered     
 
   None   
     
   n/a    
     Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act:        Common Stock, par value $5.00 per share        (Title of class)            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K, is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).      Large Accelerated Filer                            Accelerated Filer                            Non-Accelerated
Filer           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act)    Yes           No          The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2005 was
approximately $58,389,000 (based upon the closing sales price of $7.15 on June 30, 2005, as reported on the Nasdaq Capital Market).      The number of outstanding shares of the registrant s common stock as of March 21, 2006 was 8,898,366.      Documents
Incorporated by Reference: Portions of registrant s Proxy Statement filed for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part III) (unless such Part III information is included by amendment to this Form 10-K as provided in General Instruction G
(3)).        

Table of Contents  

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    

PART I     

ITEM 1.  

BUSINESS   
      
  3   

ITEM 1A.  

RISK FACTORS   
      
  15   

ITEM 1B.  

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
      
  18   

ITEM 2.  

PROPERTIES   
      
  18   

ITEM 3.  

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
      
  19   

ITEM 4.  

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   
      
  20   

PART II     

ITEM 5.  

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES    
      
  20   

ITEM 6.  

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
      
  22   

ITEM 7.  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION    
      
  23   

ITEM 7A.  

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
      
  40   

ITEM 8.  

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
      
  43   

ITEM 9.  

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE    
      
  76   

ITEM 9A.  

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
      
  76   

ITEM 9B  

OTHER INFORMATION   
      
  76   

PART III     

ITEM 10.  

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   
      
  77   

ITEM 11.  

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
      
  77   

ITEM 12.  

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS    
      
  77   

ITEM 13.  

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   
      
  77   

ITEM 14.  

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   
      
  77   

ITEM 15.  

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
      
  77   
       
   -2-   

Table of Contents  

PART I        
  ITEM 1.  BUSINESS        General       Millennium Bankshares Corporation ( Millennium ) is a financial holding company headquartered in Reston, Virginia. We were incorporated in 1998 and began operations in April 1999. We provide commercial and
consumer banking services through Millennium Bank National Association ( Millennium Bank  or the  Bank ). At December 31, 2005 Millennium had total consolidated assets of $421.5 million, deposits of $299.0 million and
stockholders  equity of $47.7 million.      Millennium Bank is a nationally chartered community bank with seven banking offices   two
in Reston, Virginia and one each in Great Falls, Herndon, Warrenton, Colonial Heights, and Richmond, Virginia. Four of our banking offices are situated in Fairfax County, Virginia, just west of Washington, D.C., one in Fauquier County, and two are
located in the Richmond, Virginia metropolitan area. Our branches are located in growing counties. The population of Fairfax County grew from 818,584 in 1990 to 969,749 in 2000, and the combined population of Henrico County and Chesterfield County
where our Richmond area branches are located, grew from 217,881 in 1990 to 262,300 in 2000.      Millennium Bank provides a broad range of
commercial and retail banking services designed to meet the needs of businesses and consumers in the communities we serve. Local decision-making and attentive personal service to customers is emphasized. By combining the technological support and
products and services that our customers demand with direct access to senior management and responsive customer service, Millennium Bank seeks to foster a business and consumer banking environment that allows effective competition in our particular
market with other financial institutions of all sizes.      Millennium Bank offers 24 hours a day, seven days a week Internet banking services.
These services allow consumers and businesses to view accounts, make transfers, submit wire transfer requests, pay bills and place stop payments on checks over the Internet.      Additional information relating to Millennium s business segments is set forth in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for the years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, which are included herewith.       Subsidiaries       Millennium conducts primarily all of its business through Millennium Bank and its wholly and majority owned subsidiaries. Only those subsidiaries involved
in mortgage operations, which are listed below, are deemed material to the business of Millennium or Millennium Bank.      The subsidiaries
listed in the following table originate, process, and underwrite first and second trust residential mortgage loans.       

Subsidiary       
     
        Location       
     
        Nature of Business       
     
        Date Established        
 
  Millennium Capital, Inc.  
     
  Reston, VA  
     
  Wholesale and Retail Lending  
     
  May 1999   
 
  Millennium Sunbelt Mortgage, LLC ( Sunbelt )  
     
  Las Vegas, NV  
     
  Retail Lending  
     
  Dec. 2001   
 
  Millennium Bank Mortgage, LLC ( MBM )  
     
  Reston, VA  
     
  Wholesale and Retail Lending  
     
  Sept. 2005   
 
  Millennium Hyland Mortgage, LLC ( Hyland )  
     
  Reston, VA  
     
  Wholesale and Retail Lending  
     
  Sept. 2005   
    In September 2005, Millennium restructured its mortgage operations. Prior to September 2005,
Millennium was recording gross gains on mortgage sales, which were offset by compensation expense and other direct expenses for the mortgage department. Under the new structure, the activities of Millennium Capital, Inc., a subsidiary of Millennium
Bank, were terminated, and Millennium established contractual relationships with three  
       
   -3-   

Table of Contents  

mortgage banking limited liability companies, the terms of each of which provide for a  per loan  fee to be paid to Millennium Bank (the 51% owner
of each LLC) for each mortgage loan sold and requires the 49% owners (individuals affiliated with the particular LLC s mortgage business or their affiliates) to pay for all costs of operation while retaining all other fee income. The business
relationship with each LLC may be terminated by any member upon written notice to the remaining members.      Millennium Bankshares Corporation
was the sole shareholder of Millennium Brokerage Services, Inc., which offered securities brokerage services, financial analysis, professional money management, stocks, bonds and mutual funds through UVEST. The relationship with UVEST was terminated
in March 2004. We signed an agreement with MetLife Securities, Inc. to provide retail securities brokerage services to our customers. We formed Millennium Financial, Inc. on February 23, 2004, to provide insurance services to our bank customers
through Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.       Strategy       We have been in operation for just under seven years, and an important part of our business is our current and future strategies. Our strategies include the following goals:       

Attract customers by providing the financial sophistication and breadth of products of a regional bank while maintaining the quick response and service of a community bank. In our
first six years of operations, we have established a diverse product line, including commercial, Small Business Administration, consumer, and mortgage loans. We also have introduced securities brokerage services and insurance.

Increase net income and return to shareholders through continued quality loan growth, while controlling the cost of our deposits and noninterest expense.     

Diversify our loan portfolio through use of our diverse array of commercial and Small Business Administration loan products. Mortgage loan production will continue to be important,
but we intend to be less dependent on mortgage lending in the future. We are also focused on increasing our core deposits, reducing our dependence on brokered deposits and attracting additional small business customers.        We have begun a number of initiatives which are intended to manage our capital and improve our financial performance.       

Initiation of a Common Stock Dividend . The Board of Directors of Millennium Bankshares declared a common stock dividend of $0.02 per share, which was payable on March 1,
2006 to shareholders of record on February 15, 2006. This dividend represented the first payment of a dividend to Millennium shareholders since we began operations in 1999. We also continue to review other options to manage our capital.

Staffing Rationalization . In December 2005, we eliminated 15 staff positions, some of which were currently open and expected to be filled, and the remainder involving the
reduction of existing positions, in an effort to rationalize our infrastructure and improve our efficiency and profitability. We project the staffing rationalization to result in pre-tax savings in projected salary expense in excess of $900 thousand
in 2006.         

New Product Initiatives . We recently rolled out our Electronic Check Deposit promotion as well as automated wire notification, which should help us build commercial deposit
accounts. One of our major initiatives in 2006 is to focus our deposit generation on lower cost demand and transaction accounts. We have also put incentive programs in place internally to focus customer relations employees on these opportunities.
The establishment of an asset-based lending division is also expected to compliment our demand deposit growth initiative. Projected growth in demand deposits is expected to reduce reliance on wholesale funding.           
   -4-   

Table of Contents  

Mortgage Operations . In September 2005, we restructured our mortgage operations as described above under  Subsidiaries.  This restructuring is expected to
significantly decrease both other income and operating expenses in 2006.         

Branching/Acquisition Activities . In an effort to focus on operational efficiency and the core, internal growth of our existing operation, we do not plan to open any new
branches or acquire any financial institutions in 2006.         Market Area         We consider our target market to be the greater Washington metropolitan area, which we define as the District of Columbia, the northern Virginia
counties of Fairfax, Fauquier, Loudoun and Prince William, and the Maryland counties of Frederick, Montgomery and Prince George s. Our target market also includes Richmond, Virginia and the surrounding counties of Chesterfield and Henrico. 
      According to the 2000 U.S. Census data, the population of the greater Washington metropolitan area was approximately 4.5 million
people. The average median household income figures reported in the 2000 U.S. Census for each of the 15 jurisdictions comprising the greater Washington metropolitan area was approximately $64,200, compared to a national median household income of
approximately $42,000. Based on estimates released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor for September 2003, the unemployment rate for the greater Washington metropolitan area was approximately 3.3%, compared to a
national unemployment rate of 5.8%. According to 2000 U.S. Census figures, approximately 44% of adults at least 25 years of age in this area have a bachelor s degree or higher, compared to approximately 24% nationally. As of June 30, 2003,
total deposits in this area were approximately $104 billion.      Our headquarters is located approximately 20 miles west of Washington, D.C.,
in Reston, Virginia, which is in Fairfax County. The 2000 U.S. Census data indicates that Fairfax County is the most populous county in Virginia with a population of approximately one million people and a median household income of over $81,000.
Based on estimates released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor for September 2003, the unemployment rate in Fairfax County was 2.4%. The U.S. Census data shows that over 54% of Fairfax County adults at least 25 years
old have a bachelor s degree or higher.       Competition       Our headquarters is in the Reston-Herndon market area where there is a limited community bank presence. It is a community serviced by the branches of large regional banks that are headquartered, for the most part, in
cities outside the Washington D.C. Metropolitan area. Our market area is a highly competitive, highly branched banking market. We compete as a financial intermediary with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage
banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds and other financial institutions operating in the Fairfax County market area and elsewhere.      Competition in the market area for loans to small businesses and professionals is intense, and pricing is important. Most of our competitors have
substantially greater resources than Millennium. Many competitors offer services, such as extensive branch networks and trust services, we currently do not provide. Moreover, larger institutions operating in the Northern Virginia market have access
to borrowed funds at lower costs than are available to the Bank. Deposit competition among institutions in the market area also is strong. As a result, it is possible that we will pay above-market rates to attract deposits. According to a market
share report prepared by the FDIC, we held 0.57% of deposits in the Fairfax County market as of June 30, 2005, the most recent date for which market share information is available.         
   -5-   

Table of Contents  

    Credit Policies       The principal risk associated with each of the categories of loans in Millennium s portfolio is the creditworthiness of its borrowers. Within each category, credit risk is increased or decreased, depending on
prevailing economic conditions. In an effort to manage the risk of loans made, our policy gives loan approval limits to individual officers based on their position and experience. Loans that are held for sale are underwritten to investor guidelines.
All fixed rate residential first mortgage loans are pre-sold prior to settlement on the loan.      Millennium Bank has written policies and
procedures to help manage credit risk. We have implemented a loan review process that includes portfolio management strategy, underwriting standards and risk assessment guidelines, procedures for ongoing identification and management of credit
deterioration, and regular portfolio reviews to establish loss exposure and to ascertain compliance with the Bank s policies.      Millennium Bank uses an Officers Loan Committee and Directors Loan Committee to approve loans. The Officers Loan Committee, which consists of the Chairman and additional officers, meets as necessary to review most applications for loans
that are intended to be held in the portfolio. A Directors Loan Committee, which currently consists of six directors, approves loans in excess of $1,000,000 that have been previously approved by the Officers Loan Committee. The Directors Loan
Committee also reviews lending policies proposed by management.      We obtain small business and commercial loans through direct solicitation
of owners and continued business from customers. The Bank s loan officers review completed commercial loan applications. As part of the application process, information is obtained concerning the income, financial condition, employment and
credit history of the applicant. If commercial real estate is involved, information is also obtained concerning cash flow after debt service. Loan quality is analyzed based on the Bank s experience and its credit underwriting guidelines, as
well as guidelines issued by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.      In the normal course of business, the Bank makes various
commitments and incurs certain contingent liabilities, which are disclosed in the footnotes of its annual financial statements, including commitments to extend credit. At December 31, 2005, commitments to extend credit totaled $51.6 million.
      Commercial Lending        General. 
Commercial business loans and commercial real estate loans generally have a higher degree of risk than residential mortgage loans, but have commensurately higher yields. To manage these risks, we generally secure appropriate collateral, obtain
personal guarantees from principals, and monitor the financial condition of our business borrowers. The availability of funds for the repayment of commercial business loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself.
Further, the collateral for commercial business loans may depreciate over time and cannot be appraised with as much precision as residential real estate. At December 31, 2005, commercial loans totaled $139.5 million, or 55.4% of the total
loan portfolio.      We have implemented a credit review and monitoring system to review the cash flow of commercial borrowers. Residential
mortgage loans generally are made on the basis of the borrower s ability to make repayment from his employment and other income and are secured by real estate, the value of which tends to be easily ascertainable. In contrast, commercial
business loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower s ability to make repayment from cash flow from its business and are secured by assets, such as commercial real estate, accounts receivable, equipment and inventory.       Real Estate Loans.  Commercial real estate loans may be secured by various types of commercial real estate in Millennium s market area,
including multi-family residential buildings, commercial buildings and offices, small shopping centers, and churches. In its underwriting of commercial real estate, the Bank may lend up to 80% of the secured property s appraised value. The
Bank s commercial real estate loan underwriting criteria require an examination of debt service coverage ratios, the borrower s creditworthiness and prior credit history and reputation, and generally requires personal guarantees or
endorsements of borrowers. At December 31, 2005, commercial real estate loans totaled $126.3 million, or 50.2% of the total loan portfolio.         
   -6-   

Table of Contents  

    Construction Loans.  Our loan policy allows for local construction loans, primarily to individual
small builders on a limited basis. At December 31, 2005, there was $43.4 million in construction and land development loans outstanding in the commercial real estate loan portfolio. The Bank will obtain a first lien on the property as security
for its construction loans and personal guarantees from the borrower s principal owners.       Small Business Lending.  Today, the
principal activity of the Bank s commercial loan division is the origination of commercial mortgage and non-mortgage loans to small and medium sized businesses. We regularly use various loan guarantee loan programs offered through the Small
Business Administration, including the 504 loan program, which is intended to help small and medium sized businesses avoid large down payments and floating interest rates that are typically associated with purchases of fixed assets used to expand
operations. Whenever possible, the 504-loan program provides long-term and fixed rate financing for investment in fixed assets, primarily real estate and large/heavy equipment. At December 31, 2005, Small Business Administration loans totaled
approximately $18.8 million.       One-to-Four-Family Residential Real Estate Lending       Millennium s operating subsidiaries; Sunbelt, MBM and Hyland make residential loans and sell them to investors in the secondary mortgage market. Both
conforming and non-conforming residential loans are originated. We make mortgage loans in our banking offices as well as through the mortgage banking subsidiaries of Millennium.      The mortgage operation has undergone a number of reorganizations since the fourth quarter of 2002 in an effort to maximize efficiency and improve
profitability.      In 2003 as the mortgage refinancing boom peaked, many mortgage companies were posting record profits. Millennium Capital,
however, did not return a profit to us in 2003. There are several reasons for this disappointment. The restructuring of the Millennium Capital organization, continued emphasis on Internet mortgage banking, as well its loan product offerings and
marketing focus, all contributed to this poor performance.      We began the reorganization of the Millennium Capital structure in the fourth
quarter of 2002. As part of the reorganization, we changed the loan products we offer. Our focus shifted from a high emphasis on riskier second mortgage loans, where the loan amount exceeded the value of the collateral, to a focus on more
traditional first mortgage loans and second mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio of 100% or less. We discontinued the production of the riskier second mortgage loans in January 2003. With this change, our lenders converted from originating the
second mortgage loans to loan products where they lacked expertise. Hiring experienced first mortgage lenders was difficult during the mortgage-refinancing boom in the first nine months of 2003. However, during the fourth quarter 2003, several very
experienced, seasoned first mortgage lenders joined our team. The results of their efforts increased our mortgage loan production volumes during the first quarter of 2004 and into 2005.      Concurrent with the reorganization begun in the fourth quarter of 2002, Millennium shifted its first mortgage lending emphasis from Internet referral
lending to traditional referral sources, including personal contacts, realtor and construction industry relationships, advertising and cross-selling throughout our organization. Until November 2003, the majority of our first mortgage loan volume
came from Internet referral sources. We not only paid a modest fee for each lead, but a substantial fee of $500 or more for each loan that closed. At the same time, borrowers who use Internet referral services shop strictly on the basis of price, so
the gains from selling these loans usually are less than on loans where a borrower is referred by a builder or real estate agent for whom dependability and timely performance are important. The shift to traditional referral sources provided business
relationships that led to repeat and ongoing business.      Changes related to cost controls, reduction of overhead and salary expense were
implemented in December 2003. Resource needs in staffing and outside services were thoroughly analyzed, based on cost benefit and loan production levels.      In September 2005, management was still not satisfied with the profitability of its mortgage segment and again restructured the mortgage operation. Under the new arrangement, the activities of Millennium Capital, Inc.

-7-   

Table of Contents  

were terminated and Millennium established contractual relationships with three mortgage banking limited liability companies (one of which, Sunbelt, was a
previously existing subsidiary of the Bank), the terms of each of which provide for a  per loan  fee to be paid to Millennium Bank (the 51% owner of each LLC) for each mortgage loan sold and require the 49% owners (individuals affiliated
with the particular LLC s mortgage business or their affiliates to pay for all costs of operation while retaining all other fee income. Prior to September 2005, Millennium was recording gross gains on mortgage sales, which were offset by
compensation expense and other direct expenses for the mortgage department. (Please refer to the description of the ownership of the limited liability companies contained in the response to Item 1 of this Form 10-K.)      We may retain in our portfolio loans secured by one-to-four-family residences, some of which are located in our market area. We also may retain
non-conforming adjustable rate mortgages for consumers that do not reside in our market area.      We evaluate both the borrower s ability
to make principal and interest payments and the value of the property that will secure the loan. We make first mortgage loans in amounts of up to 100% LTV of the appraised value of the underlying real estate, but retain in our portfolio some loans
with an 80% LTV or less appraised value. We retain some second mortgage loans secured by property in various market areas. Second mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio over 95% are underwritten to institutional investor guidelines. For
conventional loans in excess of 80% loan to value, private mortgage insurance is secured insuring the mortgage loans to 75% loan to value.      Our current one-to-four-family residential adjustable rate mortgage loans have interest rates that adjust every 1, 3, 5, or 7 years, based on a spread over the rates on one-year U.S. Treasury bills. Millennium s adjustable rate
mortgage loans generally limit interest rate increases to 2% each rate adjustment period and have an established ceiling rate at the time the loans are made of up to 6% over the original interest rate. Borrowers are qualified at the first year
interest rate plus 2%. There are risks resulting from increased costs to a borrower as a result of the periodic repricing mechanisms of these loans. Despite the benefits of adjustable rate mortgage loans to an institution s asset/liability
management, they pose additional risks, primarily because as interest rates rise, the underlying payments by the borrowers rise, increasing the potential for default. At the same time, the marketability of the underlying property may be adversely
affected by higher interest rates. We minimize these risks by underwriting these loans to be sold in the secondary mortgage market.      Millennium requires title opinions and fire and casualty insurance coverage, as well as title insurance and flood insurance where appropriate, to protect Millennium s interest. The borrower pays the cost of this insurance coverage. We
typically require escrows for taxes and insurance.       Consumer Lending       Millennium offers various secured and unsecured consumer loans, including unsecured personal loans and lines of credit, automobile loans, deposit account loans, installment and demand loans, letters of credit, and
home equity loans. Such loans are generally made to customers with a pre-existing relationship with Millennium.      Consumer loans may entail
greater risk than do residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of unsecured consumer loans, such as lines of credit, or loans secured by rapidly depreciable assets such as automobiles. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a
defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation. The underwriting standards employed by the Bank for consumer loans include
a determination of the applicant s payment history on other debts and an assessment of ability to meet existing obligations and payments on the proposed loan. The stability of the applicant s monthly income may be determined by
verification of gross monthly income for primary employment, and additionally from any verifiable secondary income. Although creditworthiness of the applicant is of primary consideration, the underwriting process also includes an analysis of the
value of the security in relation to the proposed loan amount.         
   -8-   

Table of Contents  

    Employees       At December 31, 2005, Millennium had 92 full-time equivalent employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit or union.       Supervision and Regulation        General  .  As a financial holding company, we are subject to regulation under
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the examination and reporting requirements of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Other federal and state laws govern the activities of our bank subsidiary, including the
activities in which it may engage, the investments that it makes, the aggregate amount of loans that it may grant to one borrower, and the dividends it may declare. These laws are intended primarily to protect depositors and customers of the Bank,
not shareholders of Millennium. Our bank subsidiary is also subject to various consumer and compliance laws. As a national bank, Millennium Bank is subject to primary regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency.      The following description summarizes the significant federal and state laws applicable to us. To the extent that statutory or
regulatory provisions are described, the description is qualified in its entirety by reference to that particular statutory or regulatory provision.       The Bank Holding Company Act.    Under the Bank Holding Company Act, we are subject to periodic examination by the Federal Reserve and required to file periodic reports regarding our operations and any additional information that
the Federal Reserve may require. The activities of a bank holding company are generally limited to:       

banking, managing or controlling banks;         

furnishing services to or performing services for our subsidiaries; and         

engaging in other activities that the Federal Reserve has determined by regulation or order to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to these activities.
       Some of the activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined by regulation to be closely related to the business of
banking include making or servicing loans and specific types of leases, performing specific data processing services and acting in some circumstances as a fiduciary or investment or financial adviser.      Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which is discussed in more detail below, a bank holding company that satisfies certain criteria may elect to become a
 financial holding company  and engage in a broader range of activities. With some limited exceptions, the Bank Holding Company Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before:   

acquiring substantially all the assets of any bank;         

acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if after such acquisition it would own or control more than 5% of the voting shares of such bank
(unless it already owns or controls the majority of such shares); or         

merging or consolidating with another bank holding company.        In addition, and subject to some exceptions, the Bank Holding Company Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with their regulations, require Federal Reserve approval prior to any person or company acquiring  control  of
a bank holding company. Control is conclusively presumed to exist if an individual or company acquires 25% or more of any class of voting securities of the bank holding company. Control is rebuttably presumed to exist if a person acquires 10% or
more, but less than 25%, of any class of voting securities and if the institution has registered securities under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or no other person owns a greater percentage of that class of voting securities
immediately after the transaction. The regulations provide a procedure for challenging this rebuttable control presumption.         
   -9-   

Table of Contents  

    Gramm-Leach Bliley Act . The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 was signed into law on November 12, 1999. The GLBA
covers a broad range of issues, including a repeal of most of the restrictions on affiliations among depository institutions, securities firms and insurance companies. The following description summarizes some of its significant provisions.
     The GLBA repeals sections 20 and 32 of the Glass-Steagall Act, thus permitting unrestricted affiliations between banks and securities
firms. It also permits bank holding companies to elect to become financial holding companies. A financial holding company may engage in or acquire companies that engage in a broad range of financial services, including securities activities such as
underwriting, dealing, investment, merchant banking, insurance underwriting, sales and brokerage activities. In order to become a financial holding company, the bank holding company and all of its affiliated depository institutions must be
well-capitalized, well-managed and have at least a satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act rating. We became a financial holding company after the MOU was lifted in April 2004.      The GLBA provides that the states continue to have the authority to regulate insurance activities, but prohibits the states in most instances from
preventing or significantly interfering with the ability of a bank, directly or through an affiliate, to engage in insurance sales, solicitations or cross-marketing activities. Although the states generally must regulate bank insurance activities in
a nondiscriminatory manner, the states may continue to adopt and enforce rules that specifically regulate bank insurance activities in specific areas identified under the law. Under the new law, the federal bank regulatory agencies adopted insurance
consumer protection regulations that apply to sales practices, solicitations, advertising and disclosures.      The GLBA adopts a system of
functional regulation under which the Federal Reserve Board is designated as the umbrella regulator for financial holding companies, but financial holding company affiliates are principally regulated by functional regulators such as the OCC for
national bank affiliates, the Securities and Exchange Commission for securities affiliates, and state insurance regulators for insurance affiliates. It repeals the broad exemption of banks from the definitions of  broker  and
 dealer  for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. It also identifies a set of specific activities, including traditional bank trust and fiduciary activities, in which a bank may engage without being deemed a
 broker,  and a set of activities in which a bank may engage without being deemed a  dealer.  Additionally, the law makes conforming changes in the definitions of  broker  and  dealer  for purposes of the
Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended.      The GLBA contains extensive customer
privacy protection provisions. Under these provisions, a financial institution must provide to its customers, both at the inception of the customer relationship and on an annual basis, the institution s policies and procedures regarding the
handling of customers  nonpublic personal financial information. The law provides that, except for specific limited exceptions, an institution may not provide such personal information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution
discloses to the customer that such information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. An institution may not disclose to a non-affiliated third party, other than to a consumer reporting agency,
customer account numbers or other similar account identifiers for marketing purposes. The GLBA also provides that the states may adopt customer privacy protections that are more strict than those contained in the act.       Payment of Dividends .   We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Virtually all of our revenues will result from
dividends paid to us by our bank subsidiary, Millennium Bank. Our bank subsidiary is subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends that it can pay. Under the National Bank Act, a national bank may not declare a dividend in
excess of its undivided profits, which means that Millennium Bank must recover any accumulated losses before it may pay a dividend to us. Additionally, Millennium Bank may not declare a dividend to us if the total amount of all dividends, including
the proposed dividend, declared by it in any calendar year exceeds the total of its retained net income of that year to date, combined with its retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the dividend is approved by the OCC. Millennium
Bank may not declare or pay any dividend if, after making the dividend, the national bank would be  undercapitalized,  as defined in the federal regulations.         
   -10-   

Table of Contents  

   Both the OCC and the FDIC have the general authority to limit the dividends paid by national banks and
insured banks if the payment is deemed an unsafe and unsound practice. Both the OCC and the FDIC have indicated that paying dividends that deplete a bank s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsound and unsafe banking practice.
     In addition, we are subject to certain regulatory requirements to maintain capital at or above regulatory minimums. These regulatory
requirements regarding capital affect our dividend policies. The Federal Reserve has indicated that a bank holding company, generally, should pay dividends only if its net income available to common shareholders over the past year has been
sufficient to fully fund the dividends, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Virginia law also imposes some restrictions on our
ability to pay dividends. See Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  below for more information on these restrictions.       Insurance of Accounts, Assessments and Regulation by the FDIC.    The deposits of our bank subsidiary are insured by the FDIC up to the limits set forth under
applicable law. The deposits of our bank subsidiary are subject to the deposit insurance assessments of the Bank Insurance Fund, or  BIF , of the FDIC.      The FDIC has implemented a risk-based deposit insurance assessment system under which the assessment rate for an insured institution may vary according to regulatory capital levels of the institution and other
factors, including supervisory evaluations. For example, depository institutions insured by the BIF that are  well capitalized  and that present few or no supervisory concerns are required to pay only the statutory minimum assessment of
$2,000 annually for deposit insurance, while all other banks are required to pay premiums ranging from 0.03% to 0.27% of domestic deposits. These rate schedules are subject to future adjustments by the FDIC. In addition to being influenced by the
risk profile of the particular depository institution, FDIC premiums are also influenced by the size of the FDIC insurance fund in relation to total deposits in FDIC insured banks. The FDIC has authority to impose special assessments from time to
time.      The FDIC is authorized to prohibit any BIF-insured institution from engaging in any activity that the FDIC determines by regulation
or order to pose a serious threat to the insurance fund. Also, the FDIC may initiate enforcement actions against banks, after first giving the institution s primary regulatory authority an opportunity to take such action. The FDIC may terminate
the deposit insurance of any depository institution if it determines, after a hearing, that the institution has engaged or is engaging in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any
applicable law, regulation, order or any condition imposed in writing by the FDIC. It also may suspend deposit insurance temporarily during the hearing process for the permanent termination of insurance, if the institution has no tangible capital.
If deposit insurance is terminated, the deposits at the institution at the time of termination, less subsequent withdrawals, shall continue to be insured for a period from six months to two years, as determined by the FDIC. We are not aware of any
existing circumstances that could result in termination of any of our bank subsidiary s deposit insurance.       Capital Requirements.    Each
of the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board has issued risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to banking organizations that it supervise. Under the risk-based capital requirements, we and our bank subsidiary are each generally required
to maintain a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (including specific off-balance sheet activities, such as standby letters of credit) of 8%. At least half of the total capital must be composed of  Tier 1 Capital , which
is defined as common equity, retained earnings, qualifying perpetual preferred stock and minority interest in common equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less certain intangibles. The remainder may consist of  Tier 2 Capital ,
which is defined as specific subordinated debt, some hybrid capital instruments and other qualifying preferred stock and a limited amount of the loan loss allowance and pretax net unrealized holding gains on certain equity securities. In addition,
each of the federal banking regulatory agencies has established minimum leverage capital requirements for banking organizations. Under these requirements, banking organizations must maintain a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to adjusted average
quarterly assets equal to 3% to 5%, subject to federal bank regulatory evaluation of an organization s overall safety and soundness. In sum, the capital measures used by the federal banking regulators are:       

the Total Risk-Based Capital ratio, which is the total of Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital and Tier 2 Capital;           
   -11-   

Table of Contents  

the Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio; and         

the leverage ratio.        Under these regulations, a national
bank will be:       

well capitalized  if it has a Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of 6% or greater, a leverage ratio of 5% or
greater, and is not subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive by a federal bank regulatory agency to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure;

adequately capitalized  if it has a Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of 8% or greater, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of 4% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 4%
or greater or 3% in certain circumstances and is not well capitalized;         

undercapitalized  if it has a Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of less than 8%, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of less than 4% (or 3% in certain circumstances), or
a leverage ratio of less than 4% (or 3% in certain circumstances).         

significantly undercapitalized  if it has a Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of less than 6%, a Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital ratio of less than 3%, or a leverage ratio of
less than 3%; or         

critically undercapitalized  if its tangible equity is equal to or less than 2% of tangible assets.        The risk-based capital standards of each of the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board explicitly identify concentrations of credit risk and the risk arising
from non-traditional activities, as well as an institution s ability to manage these risks, as important factors to be taken into account by the agency in assessing an institution s overall capital adequacy. The capital guidelines also
provide that an institution s exposure to a decline in the economic value of its capital due to changes in interest rates be considered by the agency as a factor in evaluating a banking organization s capital adequacy.      The OCC and the FDIC may take various corrective actions against any undercapitalized bank and any bank that fails to submit an acceptable capital
restoration plan or fails to implement a plan accepted by the OCC or the FDIC. These powers include, but are not limited to, requiring the institution to add capital, prohibiting asset growth, restricting interest rates paid, requiring prior
approval of capital distributions by any bank holding company that controls the institution, requiring divestiture by the institution of its subsidiaries or by the holding company of the institution itself, requiring new election of directors, and
requiring the dismissal of directors and officers. Our bank subsidiary presently maintains sufficient capital to remain in compliance with these capital requirements.       Other Safety and Soundness Regulations.    There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory
policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to the depositors of such depository institutions and to the FDIC insurance fund in the event that the depository institution is insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. These
obligations and restrictions are not for the benefit of investors. Regulators may pursue an administrative action against any bank holding company or national bank, which violates the law, engages in an unsafe or unsound banking practice or which is
about to engage in an unsafe and unsound banking practice. The administrative action could take the form of a cease and desist proceeding, a removal action against the responsible individuals or, in the case of a violation of law or unsafe and
unsound banking practice, a civil money penalty action. A cease and desist order, in addition to prohibiting certain action, could also require that certain action be undertaken. Under the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, we are required to
serve as a source of financial strength to our subsidiary depository institution and to commit resources to support the bank in circumstances where we might not do so otherwise.       Interstate Banking and Branching.    Current federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and bank holding companies without geographic limitation. Effective June 1, 1997, a bank
headquartered in one state is authorized to  
       
   -12-   

Table of Contents  

merge with a bank headquartered in another state, as long as neither of the states had opted out of such interstate merger authority prior to such date. For
example, as a bank headquartered in Virginia, we may acquire a bank in Maryland, but we cannot simply establish a branch in Maryland. After a bank has acquired a branch in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and
acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law.       Monetary Policy.    The commercial banking business is affected not only by general economic conditions but also by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. The instruments of monetary policy
employed by the Federal Reserve Board include open market operations in United States government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowing and changes in reserve requirements against deposits held by all federally insured
banks. The Federal Reserve Board s monetary policies have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. In view of changing conditions in the national and
international economy and in the money markets, as well as the effect of actions by monetary fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, no prediction can be made as to possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan
demand or the business and earnings of our bank subsidiary.       Federal Reserve System.    In 1980, Congress enacted legislation that imposed
reserve requirements on all depository institutions that maintain transaction accounts or no personal time deposits. NOW accounts, money market deposit accounts and other types of accounts that permit payments or transfers to third parties fall
within the definition of transaction accounts and are subject to these reserve requirements, as are any no personal time deposits at an institution. For net transaction accounts in 2006, the first $7.8 million will be exempt from reserve
requirements. A 3% reserve ratio will be assessed on net transaction accounts over $7.8 million up to and including $48.3 million. A 10% reserve ratio will be applied to amounts in net transaction accounts in excess of $48.3 million. These
percentages are subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve Board. Because required reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash or in a non-interest-bearing account at, or on behalf of, a Federal Reserve Bank, the effect of the reserve
requirement is to reduce the amount of the institution s interest-earning assets.       Transactions with Affiliates.    Transactions between
banks and their affiliates are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve Board s Regulation W. An affiliate of a bank is any bank or entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common control
with such bank. Generally, Section 23A (i) limits the extent to which the bank or its subsidiaries may engage in  covered transactions  with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10% of such institution s capital stock and
surplus, and maintain an aggregate limit on all such transactions with affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of such capital stock and surplus, and (ii) requires that all such transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least as
favorable, to the bank as those provided to a nonaffiliate. The term  covered transaction  includes the making of loans, purchase of assets, issuance of a guarantee and similar other types of transactions. Section 23B applies to
 covered transaction  as well as sales of assets and payments of money to an affiliate. These transactions must also be conducted on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable, to the bank as those provided to nonaffiliates.
      Loans to Insiders.    The Federal Reserve Act and related regulations impose specific restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers
and principal shareholders of banks. Under Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve Board s Regulation O, any loan to a director, an executive officer and to a principal shareholder of a bank, and to entities
controlled by any of the foregoing, may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such person and the entities controlled by such person, the bank s loan-to-one borrower limit. Loans in the aggregate to insiders and their related
interests as a class may not exceed two times the bank s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus until the bank s total assets equal or exceed $100,000,000, at which time the aggregate is limited to the bank s unimpaired capital and
unimpaired surplus. Section 22(h) also prohibits loans, above amounts prescribed by the appropriate federal banking agency, to directors, executive officers and principal shareholders of a bank or bank holding company, and to entities
controlled by such persons, unless such loans are approved in advance by a majority of the board of directors of the bank with any  interested  director not participating in the voting. For Millennium Bank, the loan amount, which includes
all other outstanding loans to such person, as to which such prior board of director approval is required, is the greater of $25,000 or 5% of capital and surplus (up to $500,000). Section 22(h) requires that loans to directors, executive
officers and principal shareholders be made on terms and underwriting standards substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons.         
   -13-   

Table of Contents  

    Community Reinvestment Act.    Under the Community Reinvestment Act and related regulations, depository
institutions have an affirmative obligation to assist in meeting the credit needs of their market areas, including low and moderate-income areas, consistent with safe and sound banking practice. The Community Reinvestment Act requires the adoption
by each institution of a Community Reinvestment Act statement for each of its market areas describing the depository institution s efforts to assist in its community s credit needs. Depository institutions are periodically examined for
compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act and are periodically assigned ratings in this regard. Banking regulators consider a depository institution s Community Reinvestment Act rating when reviewing applications to establish new branches,
undertake new lines of business, and/or acquire part or all of another depository institution. An unsatisfactory rating can significantly delay or even prohibit regulatory approval of a proposed transaction by a bank holding company or its
depository institution subsidiaries.      The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and federal bank regulators have made various changes to the Community Reinvestment Act.
Among other changes, Community Reinvestment Act agreements with private parties must be disclosed and annual reports must be made to a bank s primary federal regulator. A bank holding company will not be permitted to become a financial holding
company and no activities authorized under the GLBA may be commenced by a holding company or by a bank financial subsidiary if any of its bank subsidiaries received less than a  satisfactory  rating in its latest Community Reinvestment Act
examination.       Fair Lending; Consumer Laws.    In addition to the Community Reinvestment Act, other federal and state laws regulate various
lending and consumer aspects of the banking business. Governmental agencies, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice, have become concerned that prospective borrowers
experience discrimination in their efforts to obtain loans from depository and other lending institutions. These agencies have brought litigation against depository institutions alleging discrimination against borrowers. Many of these suits have
been settled, in some cases for material sums, short of a full trial.      Recently, these governmental agencies have clarified what they
consider to be lending discrimination and have specified various factors that they will use to determine the existence of lending discrimination under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, including evidence that a lender
discriminated on a prohibited basis, evidence that a lender treated applicants differently based on prohibited factors in the absence of evidence that the treatment was the result of prejudice or a conscious intention to discriminate, and evidence
that a lender applied an otherwise neutral non-discriminatory policy uniformly to all applicants, but the practice had a discriminatory effect, unless the practice could be justified as a business necessity.      Banks and other depository institutions also are subject to numerous consumer-oriented laws and regulations. These laws, which include the Truth in
Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and the Fair Housing Act, require compliance by depository institutions with various disclosure
requirements and requirements regulating the availability of funds after deposit or the making of some loans to customers.       USA Patriot Act of 2001. 
In October 2001, the USA Patriot Act of 2001 was enacted in response to the terrorist attacks in New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C., which occurred on September 11, 2001. The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S.
law enforcement agencies and the intelligence communities to work cohesively to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. The potential impact of the Patriot Act on financial institutions of all kinds is significant and wide ranging. The Patriot Act
contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and imposes various regulations, including standards for verifying client identification at account opening, and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions,
regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering.       Future Regulatory Uncertainty
      Because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot
forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. Although Congress in recent years has sought to reduce the regulatory burden on financial  
       
   -14-   

Table of Contents  

institutions with respect to the approval of specific transactions, we fully expect that the financial institution industry will remain heavily regulated in
the near future and that additional laws or regulations may be adopted further regulating specific banking practices.       

ITEM 1A.  
   RISK FACTORS          Risks Associated with Millennium    
    Our business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and capital levels.
       The majority of our assets are monetary in nature and, as a result, we are subject to significant risk from changes in interest
rates. Changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our earnings are significantly dependent on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on
interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience  gaps  in the interest rate sensitivities of our
assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary
to our position, this  gap  will work against us and our earnings may be negatively affected.      An increase in the general level
of interest rates may also, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to an increase in prepayments on our loans
and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume, loan portfolios and our overall results.      Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control our risk from changes in the general level of market interest rates, market
interest rates are affected by many factors outside of our control, including inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, money supply and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. In view of the continued
low interest rates on savings, loans and investments that currently prevail compared to historical ranges, it is quite possible that significant changes in interest rates may take place in the future, and we cannot always accurately predict the
nature or magnitude of such changes or how such changes may affect our business.        Market conditions may adversely affect our ability
to continue to rely on brokered deposits as a source of funds and cause us to seek alternative sources that may not be on terms favorable to us.        We solicit deposits from brokers because our banking offices do not attract enough deposits to fund all of the loans that we make. These  brokered deposits  represent funds that brokers gather from third
parties and package in batches in order to find higher interest rates that are typically available for certificates of deposits with large balances, as compared to individually deposited smaller denomination deposits. Deposit holders then earn a
higher rate on the money that they have invested, and the broker charges a fee for its service. Brokered deposits are available in bulk, and they do not require any investments in branch offices or branch personnel or spending for marketing or
education of employees. At December 31, 2005, $69.2 million of our deposits were brokered deposits. The weighted average interest rate on our brokered deposits was 3.91% at December 31, 2005.      Brokered deposits are normally more costly than traditional core deposits, as they carry a higher blended interest rate. If market conditions change,
brokers may transfer deposited funds from us into other investments or demand higher interest rates for new deposits. Moreover, brokers operate in a national market and will place funds with banks that offer to pay the highest interest rates. Unlike
businesses and individuals who bank with us in our market, there is no basis for a business relationship with deposit brokers that would provide a stable deposit base. There is a higher likelihood that, unlike deposits from our local customers, the
funds that brokered deposits provide us will not remain with us after maturity.         
   -15-   

Table of Contents  

   We could be confronted with the choice of curtailing our lending activity or paying above market interest
rates in order to attract and retain deposits. Either action could reduce our net income. Any inability to keep our deposit growth on pace with the growth in our loan portfolio may affect our net income. In this situation, we may need to obtain
alternative sources of funding, which may or may not be available to us on terms that we would consider favorable.        Government
regulations may adversely affect our ability to continue to rely on brokered deposits as a source of funds and cause us to curtail our mortgage banking business.        Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation regulations could affect our ability to continue to accept brokered deposits. A well-capitalized bank (one that significantly exceeds specified capital ratios) may accept brokered
deposits without restriction. Undercapitalized banks (those that fail to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements) may not accept brokered deposits, and adequately capitalized banks (those that are not well-capitalized or undercapitalized) may
only accept such deposits with the consent of the FDIC. Millennium Bank currently is well-capitalized and, therefore, may accept brokered deposits without restriction. If, as a result of rapid asset growth or unanticipated losses, Millennium Bank
ceased to be well-capitalized, the FDIC might not permit it to maintain its desired level of brokered deposits. If it were required to reduce its level of brokered deposits, Millennium Bank also would have to reduce its assets and, most likely,
curtail its mortgage banking business. Any reduction could have an adverse effect on our revenues.        Our profitability depends
significantly on local economic conditions.        Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the geographic
markets in which we operate. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the northern Virginia and Richmond, Virginia area. The local economic conditions in these
areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions,
caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and negatively affect our financial results.
       A large percentage of our loans are secured by real estate, and an adverse change in the real estate market may result in losses and
adversely affect our profitability.        Approximately 94% of our loan portfolio, including loans held for sale, as of December 31,
2005 was comprised of loans secured by real estate. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our market areas specifically could impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon
foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, the amounts we receive upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, our profitability and financial
condition could be negatively impacted by an adverse change in the real estate market.        We could be subject to environmental risks
and associated costs on our foreclosed real estate assets.        A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property.
There is a risk that hazardous or toxic waste could be found on the properties that secure our loans. If we acquire such properties as a result of foreclosure, we could be held responsible for the cost of cleaning up or removing this waste, and this
cost could exceed the value of the underlying properties and adversely affect our profitability. Although we have policies and procedures that require us to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property,
these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards.        Our allowance for loan losses may not be
sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings.        We are exposed to the risk that our loan
customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate the banks for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of
the collateral. We may experience significant  
       
   -16-   

Table of Contents  

loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Management makes various assumptions and judgments
about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of our commercial loan portfolio, the effect of changes in the local real estate market on collateral values, the results of recent regulatory examinations,
the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, the amount of charge-offs for the period, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security, and the evaluation of our loan
portfolio by the external loan review.      We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in our loan
portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our
evaluation of general economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan
portfolio. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income.      In addition, federal and state regulators
periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan
losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.        Our small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy.        We target our business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer
financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact the central and northern Virginia area or the other markets in which we operate, our results of operations and
financial condition may be negatively affected.        We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of our senior executive
officers or other key employees could impair our relationship with our customers and adversely affect our business and financial results.        Our success is dependent upon the continued service and skills of Carroll C. Markley, Anita L. Shull, Dale G. Phelps and other senior officers. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these key personnel could have an
adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.        An interruption in or breach in security of our information systems may result in a loss of customer business.        We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems
could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they
will be adequately addressed by us. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could result in a loss of customer business and have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.        Our growth strategy may not be successful, and that could have an adverse effect on the value of your common stock.        Our business strategy calls for us to take advantage of our existing investments in facilities and personnel by growing in our existing banking market and
expanding into new markets if appropriate opportunities arise. We may not be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and on acceptable terms, in expanding our asset base to a targeted size, or in
managing the costs and implementation risks associated  
       
   -17-   

Table of Contents  

with our growth strategy. Even if we successfully increase our capital, increasing the volume of our loans will require that we be able to fund that increase
through additional deposits we accept in our market or through brokers, or through other funding sources, such as borrowings. In addition, we may not be able to maintain capital sufficient to support our continued growth and may not be able to fund
any particular amount of increase in our loans.        If we need additional capital in the future, we may not be able to obtain it on
terms that are favorable, which may limit our growth.        We anticipate that we will support our growth strategy through additional
deposits at new branch locations and investment opportunities. It is possible that we may need to raise additional capital to support our future growth. Our ability to raise capital through borrowings or the sale of securities will depend primarily
upon our financial condition and the conditions of financial markets at the time. We cannot make any assurance that additional capital would be available on terms satisfactory to us or at all. The failure to raise additional capital on terms that
are favorable to us or at all may force us to limit our growth strategy.       Risks Associated With Our Industry         We face strong competition from other financial institutions and financial service companies, which could adversely affect our operations and
financial condition.        We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan
associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services than we
do. We also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations, each of which may offer more favorable financing than
we are able to provide. Some of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our results
of operations and financial condition.        We operate in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, are subject to extensive
regulation and supervision that could adversely affect our financial performance, and we may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations.        We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or
federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on us, our subsidiaries, and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority and
operations, or the powers, authority and operations of Millennium Bank, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy
unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on us.   
  
  ITEM 1B  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS       Not applicable      
  ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES       Millennium conducts its business from its main office in Reston, Virginia, six other
branch banking offices and one loan production office. Majority owned subsidiaries occupy space that is not an obligation of Millennium  
       
   -18-   

Table of Contents  

and contractually provided by the minority owner. The following table provides certain information with respect to our properties:       

Location    
      
     Date Facility       Opened    
      
     Ownership and       Leasing Arrangements     
 
  Main Office:  

1601 Washington Plaza     Reston, Virginia   
      
  1999  
      
  Leased from 1601 Washington Plaza, LLC, a Virginia limited liability company, the members of which are also Millennium shareholders. Lease expires in 2010, subject to Millennium s right
to renew for an additional 10-year term.   

Branch Offices:  

1025-K Seneca Road     Great Falls, Virginia   

2001  
      
  Lease from Tectum, LLC expires in 2010, subject to Millennium s right to renew for two additional five-year terms.   

1051 Elden Street     Herndon, Virginia   
      
  2001  
      
  Leased from 1051 Elden Street, LLC, a Virginia limited liability company, the members of which are also Millennium shareholders. Lease expires in 2013 and three consecutive five-year renewal
options.   

11260 Roger Bacon Drive     Reston, Virginia   

2002  
      
  Leased from Roger Bacon Associates Limited Partnership. Lease expires in 2007 and has four consecutive five-year renewal options.   

8821 West Broad Street     Richmond,
Virginia   
      
  2002  
      
  Leased from individual. Lease expires in 2009 and has two consecutive five-year renewal options.   

3400 Boulevard     Colonial Heights,
Virginia   
      
  2002  
      
  Leased from individual. Lease expires in 2007 and has two consecutive five-year renewal options.   

11A Main Street     Warrenton VA, 20186   
      
  2004  
      
  Leased from Corinth Investments, LLC Lease expires in 2009 and have five (5) three (3) year periods   

Loan Offices  

2217 Princess Anne St., Ste 212-1     Fredericksburg, VA
22401   
      
  2004  
      
  Leased from individual. Lease expires in 2006 and can be leased in 12-month periods from the end of the first term.   
    We believe that all of our properties are maintained in good operating condition and are suitable
and adequate for our operational needs.      
  ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS       In the course of our operations, we may become a party to legal proceedings.
Certain claims have been made by a former manager of one of the Bank s mortgage operating subsidiaries against the Bank alleging breaches of contracts. No amount of loss, if any, can be reasonably estimated at this time, therefore no liability
has been recorded in the consolidated financial statements. However, Millennium intends to defend itself against these allegations.         
   -19-   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS       Millennium held a special meeting of its
shareholders on November 28, 2005. The proposals presented to shareholders at that meeting and the votes cast thereon were as follows:      Proposal to approve the issuance of additional shares of Millennium common stock in connection with the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of June 9, 2005, as amended, between Millennium Bankshares Corporation and Albemarle
First Bank.       
    Proposal to amend the articles of incorporation of Millennium to increase the number of authorized
shares of common stock from 10,000,000 to 20,000,000.       
    Proposal to adjourn the meeting to a later date or dates, if necessary, to permit further
solicitation of proxies in the event there are not sufficient votes at the time of the meeting to approve the matters to be considered by the shareholders at the meeting.       
      
  PART II        
  ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES       Our common stock has been listed for quotation on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol  MBVA  since February 6, 2002, following our initial public offering at $6.00 per share. Prior to that time
there were no trades of shares of our common stock. As of March 22, 2006, our common stock was held by 120 stockholders of record and approximately 904 beneficial holders who own shares in street name.      The high and low sale prices per share for our common stock for each quarter of 2005 and 2004, as well as the amount of cash dividends per share we
declared in each quarter, were as follows:       
    Our future dividend policy is subject to the discretion of the board of directors and will depend
upon a number of factors, including future consolidated earnings, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of both Millennium and Millennium Bank, applicable governmental regulations and policies and other factors deemed relevant by
our board of directors. Millennium declared a quarterly dividend of $0.02 on January 31, 2006 payable on March 1, 2006 to shareholders of record on February 15, 2006. This is the first dividend declared since Millennium began
operations in 1999.         
   -20-   

Table of Contents  

   Our ability to distribute cash dividends will depend primarily on the ability of our subsidiary bank to
pay dividends to us. As a national bank, Millennium Bank is subject to certain restrictions on our reserves and capital imposed by federal banking statutes and regulations. Furthermore, under Virginia law, we may not declare or pay a cash dividend
on our capital stock if we are insolvent or if the payment of the dividend would render us insolvent or unable to pay our obligations as they become due in the ordinary course of business. For additional information on these limitations, see
 Item 1. Business   Government Supervision and Regulation   Payment of Dividends  above.      We did not repurchase any
shares of our common stock during any quarter of the year ended December 31, 2005.      The following table provides information, as of
December 31, 2005, regarding securities authorized for issuance under Millennium s equity compensation plans.       

Plan Category       
      
   Number of Securities to Be Issued upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and
Rights   
      
     Weighted Average       Exercise Price of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights    
      
     Number of Securities Remaining Available       for Future Issuance       Under
Equity       Compensation Plans  1      
 
    Incentive Stock Option Plan   
      
  708,406  
      
  $  
  6.01  
      
  1,100,364   
 
    Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Shareholders    2      

Total   
      
  708,406  
      
  $  
  6.01  
      
  1,101,364   

1   
      Amounts exclude any securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants
and rights.     

2   
      Millennium does not have any equity compensation plans that have not been approved by
shareholders.           
   -21-   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA        Summary Consolidated Financial Data        

(1)  
  Excludes loans held for sale.     

(2)  
  On an annualized basis.     

(3)  
  The efficiency ratio equals non-interest expense divided by the sum of taxable equivalent net interest income plus non-interest income less gain on sale of securities less merger
related expenses     

(4)  
  Includes loans held for sale.     

(5)  
  Non-performing loans do not include loans past due 90 or more days but still accruing.           
   -22-   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION        General
      Millennium Bankshares Corporation is a bank holding company headquartered in Reston, Virginia. We were incorporated in 1998 and began
operations in April 1999. We provide services through our principal operating subsidiary, Millennium Bank. We presently operate seven banking offices, all in Virginia. Two offices are in Reston, one each is in Great Falls, Herndon, and Warrenton,
and two are in the Richmond, Virginia area. We also have a loan production office located in Fredericksburg, Virginia. We are a community bank providing a broad range of commercial and retail banking services designed to meet the needs of businesses
and consumers in the communities we serve. We emphasize local decision-making within our organization and provide personal service to our customers. By combining the technological support, products and services that our customers demand with direct
access to senior management and responsive customer service, we work to foster a business and consumer banking environment that allows us to effectively compete in our particular market with other financial institutions of all sizes.      Our operating revenues are derived primarily from interest earned on loans and investment securities portfolio net of interest paid on deposit products
and borrowings. Millennium also receives revenue from sales of mortgage and Small Business Administration loans and fee income from loans, deposits and other banking products.      Millennium continues to seek and evaluate additional expansion alternatives either through loan production offices or new branch locations. The new
branch locations can be a prior branch location purchased from an existing institution or a de novo site determined to best suit our strategic plans. In addition, we intend to consider various strategic acquisitions of banks, banking assets or
financial service entities related to banking in our geographical areas that management believes would complement and increase our existing business lines, or expansion into new market areas or product lines that management determines would be in
the best interest of Millennium and its shareholders.      The following presents management s discussion and analysis of our consolidated
financial condition at December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the results of our operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. The discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements
presented elsewhere in this Form 10-K.       Critical Accounting Policies        General       The financial condition and results of operations presented in the Consolidated Financial
Statements, accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and management s discussion and analysis are, to a large degree, dependent upon our accounting policies. The selection and application of these accounting policies involve
judgments, estimates, and uncertainties that are susceptible to change.      Presented below is discussion of those accounting policies that
management believes are the most important to the portrayal and understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. These critical accounting policies require management s most difficult, subjective and complex judgments about
matters that are inherently uncertain. In the event that different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, and depending upon the severity of such changes, the possibility of materially different financial condition or results of operations is a
reasonable likelihood. See also Note 1 of the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements presented elsewhere in this Form 10-K.       Allowance for Loan
Losses       Millennium monitors and maintains an allowance for loan losses to absorb an estimate of probable losses inherent in the loan
portfolio. Millennium maintains policies and procedures that address the systems of control  
       
   -23-   

Table of Contents  

over the following areas of maintenance of the allowance: the systematic methodology used to determine the appropriate level of the allowance to provide
assurance that the allowance for loan losses is maintained in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America; the accounting policies for loan charge-offs and recoveries; the assessment and measurement of
impairment in the loan portfolio; and the loan grading system.      Millennium evaluates various loans individually for impairment as required
by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan, and SFAS No. 118, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan   Income Recognition and Disclosures. Loans evaluated
individually for impairment include non-performing loans, such as loans on non-accrual, loans past due 90 days or more, restructured loans and other loans selected by management. The evaluations are based upon discounted expected cash flows or
collateral valuations. If the evaluation shows that a loan is individually impaired, then a specific reserve is established for the amount of impairment. If a loan evaluated individually is not impaired, then the loan is assessed for impairment
under SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (SFAS 5), with a group of loans that have similar characteristics.      For loans without
individual measures of impairment, Millennium makes estimates of losses for groups of loans as required by SFAS 5. Loans are grouped by similar characteristics, including the type of loan, the assigned loan grade and the general collateral type. A
loss rate reflecting the expected loss inherent in a group of loans is derived based upon estimates of default rates for a given loan grade, the predominant collateral type for the group and the terms of the loan. The resulting estimate of losses
for groups of loans are adjusted for relevant environmental factors and other conditions of the portfolio of loans, including: borrower and industry concentrations; levels and trends in delinquencies, charge-offs and recoveries; changes in
underwriting standards and risk selection; level of experience, ability and depth of lending management; and national and local economic conditions.      The amount of estimated impairment for individually evaluated loans and groups of loans is added together for a total estimate of loan losses. This estimate of losses is compared to the allowance for loan losses of
Millennium as of the evaluation date and, if the estimate of losses exceeds the allowance, an additional provision to the allowance would be made. If the estimate of losses is less than the allowance, the degree to which the allowance exceeds the
estimate is evaluated to determine whether the allowance falls outside a range of estimates. If the estimate of losses were below the range of reasonable estimates, the allowance would be reduced by way of a credit to the provision for loan losses.
Millennium recognizes the inherent imprecision in estimates of losses due to various uncertainties and variability related to the factors used, and therefore a reasonable range around the estimate of losses is derived and used to ascertain whether
the allowance is too high. If different assumptions or conditions were to prevail and it is determined that the allowance is not adequate to absorb the new estimate of probable losses, an additional provision for loan losses would be made, which
amount may be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Financial Summary       For the year ended December 31, 2005, Millennium reported net income of $1.6 million, or $0.18 per diluted share, compared to net income of $2.0
million, or $0.27 per diluted share for the same period in 2004. The annualized return on average assets and return on equity for the period ended December 31, 2005, are 0.39% and 3.35%, respectively, compared to 0.59% and 5.44%, respectively,
for the comparable period in 2004.      In addition to dealing with a challenging economic environment and flat yield curve in 2005, a
significant focus in 2005 was centered on the acquisition of Albemarle First Bank, Charlottesville, Virginia. This acquisition, however, was terminated on November 28, 2005 due to our failure to receive requisite shareholder approval. Net
income for the year ended 2005 was negatively impacted by after tax charges of $339 thousand related to writing off transaction costs associated with the terminated acquisition. In 2005, Millennium also incurred after tax securities losses of $137
thousand in a transaction designed to improve the investment portfolio risk profile.      Total assets increased to $421.5 million at
December 31, 2005, compared to $371.9 million at December 31, 2004, representing an increase of $49.6 million or 13.3%. Loans including loans held for sale, net of allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2005 were $270.2 million, a
decrease of $6.1 million from the December 31, 2004  
       
   -24-   

Table of Contents  

balance of $276.3 million. Loans held for sale decreased $7.3 million while the Bank s portfolio increased by $1.3 million. The investment portfolio
increased by $42.1 million at December 31, 2005 as compared to the prior year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was reflected primarily in two sectors: states and political subdivisions and mortgage-backed securities, as Millennium
sought to improve portfolio diversification and the overall risk profile. Total deposits reached $299.0 million at December 31, 2005, an $18.2 million increase over the prior year-end. Due to the introduction of a special NOW account for senior
citizens, there was a shift in product mix from savings and money market to NOW with the bulk of the increase in total deposits reflected in time deposits.      Shareholders  equity was $47.7 million at December 31, 2005 compared with $47.1 million at December 31, 2004. Shareholders  equity increased only slightly in 2005 as the increase in accumulated
other comprehensive loss offset the growth in earnings. Other comprehensive income is the change in the market value of the investment portfolio due to changes in interest rates, net of taxes. Book value per share was $5.39 at December 31, 2005
and $5.37 at December 31, 2004.       Net Interest Income       Net interest income is the largest component of our earnings and is equal to the amount by which interest income exceeds interest expense. Interest earning assets consist primarily of loans and securities, while
deposits and borrowings represent the major portion of interest bearing liabilities. Changes in the volume and mix of assets and liabilities, as well as changes in the yields and rates paid, determine changes in net interest income. The net interest
margin is calculated by dividing net interest income by average interest earning assets.      Our net interest margin is sensitive to the
volume of mortgage loan originations. Loans originated by our mortgage subsidiary are sold, servicing released, in the secondary mortgage market. When the volume of mortgage loan originations increases, funds advanced in settlement of mortgage loans
increase, pending delivery of the loans to the loan purchaser. Until a mortgage loan is transferred to the purchaser, we receive interest on the loan at the note rate. While such funds advanced contribute to net interest income, the interest rate
spread on mortgage loans held for sale is not as great as the spread on our loan portfolio, which normally carries a higher interest yield. Thus, as funds advanced in settlement of mortgage loans increase, the interest spread and the net interest
margin decrease.      As reflected in the following table, net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis was $12.9 million for the
year ended December 31, 2005 compared to $11.2 million for the same period in 2004. Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $24.2 million, up from $18.4 million for the same period last year. The interest income increase
was attributable to a 19.2% increase in average earning assets coupled with a 58 basis point increase in gross yield. Loan yield increased 84 basis points as existing variable rate loans tied to prime repriced upward concurrent with the continuing
tightening of short-term rates by the Federal Open Market Committee, which tends to cause increases in the prime rate, and as new volume was originated in a rising rate environment. Average loans increased 10.9% while average securities increased
49.5%. Interest expense increased $4.1 million as the average balance of deposits and borrowed funds increased as well as the rates paid thereon. Since much of the increased funding for lending activities was concentrated in higher-rate products,
the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities increased in greater magnitude than earning asset yield. Since deposit growth did not keep pace with earning asset growth there was a heavier reliance on wholesale funding, such as advances from the
Federal Home Loan Bank. Funding of earning assets from interest free sources also declined from 15.1% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 14.4% for the same period this year. With market rates continuing to rise, Millennium is focusing its
2006 deposit initiatives on generating higher volumes of lower cost demand and transaction accounts. These initiatives include the implementation of automated wire notification, increased promotion of the electronic check deposit product and the
establishment of a corporate-wide incentive program designed specifically to focus employees on these products. The establishment of an asset-based lending division is also expected to compliment the demand deposit growth initiative. The net
interest margin decreased by 13 basis points to 3.24% for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to 3.37% for the same period in 2004.         
   -25-   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables set forth average balances of total interest earning assets and total interest
bearing liabilities for the periods indicated, showing the average distribution of assets, liabilities, stockholders  equity and the related income, expense and corresponding weighted average yields and costs.       

(1)  
  Includes loans held for sale.     

(2)  
  Income computed on a fully tax-equivalent basis.     

(3)  
  Interest spread is the average yield earned on earning assets less the average rate paid on interest bearing liabilities.     

(4)  
  Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as a percentage of average earning assets.           
   -26-   

Table of Contents  

   The following table describes the impact on Millennium s interest income resulting from changes in
average balances and average rates for the periods indicated. The change in interest due to both volume and rate has been allocated to volume and rate changes in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.
      
     Investments       At December 31, 2005, Millennium had $128.4 million in total available for sale securities, an increase of 48.9% from $86.2 million at December 31, 2004. The increase in available for sale securities since
year-end 2004 was concentrated in mortgage-backed securities and obligations of states and political subdivisions to improve diversification and the overall risk profile of investment portfolio.      The following tables show the amortized cost and fair market value of investment securities at the dates indicated.       
    The following table sets forth the maturity distribution and weighted average tax-equivalent
yields, based on contractual maturity, of all debt securities in the securities available for sale portfolio based on amortized cost as of December 31, 2005. Actual maturities for mortgage-backed securities will vary based on the level of
prepayments in the underlying mortgage pools.         
   -27-   

Table of Contents  

There are no securities with a single issuer for which the amortized cost in the aggregate exceeds
10% of shareholders  equity.       Loans       Net loans consist of total loans, deferred loan fees and the allowance for loan losses and include loans held for sale. Net loans were $270.2 million at December 31, 2005, a decrease of 2.2% from December 31, 2004.      The following table sets forth the composition of Millennium s loan portfolio at the dates indicated.       
    At December 31, 2005, there was not a significant change in loan portfolio mix compared with
the composition of the loan portfolio at December 31, 2004.         
   -28-   

Table of Contents  

   The following table shows the contractual maturity of selected categories of loans at December 31,
2005. The table reflects the entire unpaid principal balance in the maturity period that includes the final loan payment date, and accordingly, does not give effect to periodic principal repayments or possible prepayments.       
     Asset Quality        General       Asset quality is an important factor in the successful operation of a financial institution. Banking regulations
require institutions to classify their assets and to establish prudent general allowances for losses for assets classified as substandard or doubtful. For the portion of assets classified as loss, an institution is required to either establish
specific allowances of 100% of the amount classified or charge such amounts off its books.      Assets which do not currently expose Millennium
to sufficient risk to warrant classification in one of the aforementioned categories, but possess potential weaknesses, are required to be designated special mention by management. These loans are monitored closely so that we can mitigate our
exposure to further deterioration in the asset. Millennium charges off any loans that are classified as loss.      Unless well secured and in
the process of collection, Millennium places loans in a non-accrual status once they become past due greater than 90 days, or earlier in situations in which the loans have developed inherent problems that indicate payment of principal and interest
may not be made in full. Whenever the accrual of interest is stopped, previously accrued but uncollected interest income is reversed. Thereafter, interest is recognized only as cash is received. The loan is reinstated to an accrual basis after it
has been brought current as to principal and interest under the contractual terms of the loan.         
   -29-   

Table of Contents  

    Non-Performing Assets       Millennium had $598,000 of non-accrual loans at December 31, 2005, compared to $822,000 at December 31, 2004. The following table details information concerning non-accrual, past due and restructured loans
at the dates indicated:       
    Information regarding impaired loans is as follows:       
    No additional funds are committed to be advanced in connection with the above
impaired loans.       Delinquent and problem loans       When a borrower fails to make a required payment on a loan, Millennium attempts to cure the delinquency by contacting the borrower. A notice is mailed to the borrower after a payment is 15 days past due and again when the loan is 30 days
past due. For most loans, if the delinquency is not cured within 60 days, Millennium issues a notice of intent to foreclose on the property and if the delinquency is not cured within 90 days, Millennium may institute foreclosure action. In most
cases, deficiencies are cured promptly.       Allowance for losses on loans       Millennium provides valuation allowances for probable losses incurred on loans when we determine that a significant decline in the value of the collateral has occurred, and if the value of the collateral is less than
the amount of the unpaid principal of the related loan plus estimated costs of acquisition and sale. In addition, Millennium also provides reserves based on the dollar amount and type of collateral securing its loans, in order to protect against
unanticipated losses. A loss experience percentage is established for each loan type and is reviewed at least annually, and more frequently if we identify factors that require us to consider a change to the percentage. Each month, the loss
percentage is applied to the portfolio, by product type, to determine the minimum amount of reserves required. Although management believes that it uses the best information available to make such determinations, future adjustments to reserves may
be necessary, and net income could be significantly affected, if circumstances differ substantially from assumptions used in making the initial determinations.         
   -30-   

Table of Contents  

   An analysis of the allowance for loan losses, including charge-off activity, is presented below for the
periods indicated. Although net charge-offs were lower in 2005 than in 2004, the provision for loan loss expense was higher than in 2004 due primarily to revised qualitative factors utilized in the allowance methodology.       
    The allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2005, was $3.2 million, compared to $2.9
million at December 31, 2004. The provision for loan losses for 2005 was $438,000 as compared to $271,000 for the period ended December 31, 2004.      The allowance for loan losses was 1.17% of total loans outstanding at December 31, 2005 compared to 1.05% at December 31, 2004. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans were 0.05% and 0.16% for
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Management believes the allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover credit losses probable and incurred in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2005.         
   -31-   

Table of Contents  

   A breakdown of the allowance for loan losses in dollars and loans in each category to total loans in
percentages is provided in the following tables. Because all of these factors are subject to change, the breakdown does not necessarily predict future loan losses in the indicated categories.       
     
     Noninterest Income       Millennium s non-interest income consists primarily of loan fees, net gains on sale of loans and fees and service charges on deposit accounts. The following table presents information on the sources and amounts
of non-interest income.       
    Most of noninterest income consists of gains on sales of loans which is discussed further in the
table and text which follows.         
   -32-   

Table of Contents  

   The loss on sale of securities recognized in 2005 was incurred in conjunction with an investment
portfolio repositioning designed to improve the investment portfolio risk profile.      The tables that follow summarize residential mortgage loan
originations, purchases and sales by type of loan for the periods indicated.       
    We made mortgage loans through Millennium Capital through August 31, 2005 and our majority
owned operating subsidiaries. The majority of our residential mortgage loan production came from our non-banking operating subsidiaries and Millennium Capital. Each operating subsidiary s loan production consists primarily of loans to consumers
acquired from direct relationships and brokers.      We sell residential first and second mortgage loans in the secondary mortgage market to
institutional purchasers. All second mortgage loans and all fixed rate first mortgage loans originated or purchased are held for sale. Millennium began originating federally insured or guaranteed mortgage loans in March 2004. We do not swap mortgage
loans for mortgage-backed securities. All loan sales are for cash. When we sell loans we give customary representations and warranties. If we breach those representations and warranties, a buyer of loans can require us to repurchase the loans.
     Mortgage banking activities generally involve risks of loss if secondary mortgage market interest rates increase substantially while a
loan is in the  pipeline  (the period beginning with the application to make or the commitment to purchase a loan and ending with the sale of the loan). In order to reduce this interest rate risk, we sell each fixed rate first mortgage
loan when the borrower locks in the interest rate on the loan. Millennium does not use options, futures or other derivatives to hedge its interest rate risk.      In an environment of stable interest rates, our gains on the sale of mortgage loans would generally be limited to those gains resulting from the yield differential between retail mortgage loan interest rates and rates
required by secondary market purchasers. A loss from the sale of a loan may occur if interest rates increase between the time we establish the interest rate on a loan and the time the loan is sold.         
   -33-   

Table of Contents  

   Periods of rising interest rates generally will adversely affect our income from our mortgage banking
operations. In periods of rising interest rates, consumer demand for new mortgages and refinancing decreases, which in turn adversely affects our mortgage lending. In 2005, origination volume remained strong despite rising rates because the overall
level of market rates still remained low compared to historical levels. Because of the uncertainty of future loan origination volume and the future level of interest rates, there can be no assurance that we will realize gains on the sale of loans in
future periods.       Noninterest Expense        

(1)  
  Includes litigation-related legal fees and related expenses.     

(2)  
  Excludes litigation-related legal fees and expenses.        Salaries and benefits expense, the largest component of noninterest expense, has steadily increased in correlation with the expansion of mortgage lending and support staff for that function as well as increased commissions on the higher
volume of mortgage loans. The occupancy expense increase for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to increased costs associated with the Warrenton branch, which opened in August 2004, and the cost of additional space to house staff at the
mortgage segment.      The merger related expenses recognized in 2005 were transaction costs associated with the terminated acquisition of
Albemarle First Bank.       Income Taxes       Millennium recorded income tax expense in the amount of $680 for the year ended December 31, 2005. The income tax expense for 2004 was $1,030.      As of December 31, 2004 we had used all of our net operating losses available. In addition to federal income taxes the bank pays a Virginia State franchise tax. The franchise tax was $243, $183, and $229, for the
years ending December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.       Sources of Funds        Deposits       Deposits have been the principal source of Millennium s funds for use in lending and
for other general business purposes. At present, Millennium has employed alternative methods to gather deposits to fund our mortgage loan operations and commercial lending. Alternative methods used are advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of
Atlanta for daily and longer-term borrowings and also brokered deposits. Brokered deposits are deposits that we obtain through brokers for a fee. Brokered deposits are available in bulk, and they do not require any investments in branch offices,
branch personnel or additional spending for marketing or education of employees. The brokered deposits that we obtain consist primarily of jumbo 30 day to 3 years certificates of deposits. Brokered deposits often earn a rate of interest that is
higher than the rates we pay on other deposit products, which increases Millennium s overall cost of funds and decreases our net interest margin.      In addition to deposits, Millennium derives funds from loan repayments, cash flows generated from operations, which includes interest credited to deposit accounts, repurchase agreements entered into with commercial
banks and Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta advances. Borrowings may be used to compensate for reductions in deposits or deposit-inflows at less than projected levels and have been used on a longer-term basis to support expanded lending activities.
        
   -34-   

Table of Contents  

   Millennium attracts both short-term and long-term deposits from the general public by offering a wide
assortment of accounts and rates. Millennium offers statement savings accounts, various checking accounts, various money market accounts, fixed-rate certificates with varying maturities, and individual retirement accounts and is expanding to provide
deposit products and services for businesses. Millennium s principal use of deposits is to originate loans and fund investment securities.      At December 31, 2005, deposits were $299.0 million, an increase of 6.5% from $280.8 million at December 31, 2004. The deposit growth is a reflection of branch office growth, aggressive pricing, marketing and other bank
consolidation in Millennium s principal market. In order to reduce the overall cost of funds and reduce our reliance on high cost time deposits and short-term borrowings as a funding source, we continue to direct extensive marketing efforts
towards attracting lower cost transaction accounts. However, there is no assurance that these efforts will be successful, or if successful, that they will reduce our reliance on time deposits and short-term borrowings.      The following table sets forth the dollar amount of deposits in the various types of deposit programs offered by Millennium at the dates indicated.
      
    The following table contains information pertaining to the average amount and the average rate
paid on each of the following deposit categories for the periods indicated.       
    The variety of deposit accounts offered by Millennium has allowed us to be competitive in
obtaining funds and has allowed it to respond with flexibility to, although not to eliminate, the threat of disintermediation (the flow of funds away from depository institutions such as banking institutions into direct investment vehicles such as
government and corporate securities). The ability of Millennium to attract and maintain deposits, and its cost of funds, has been, and will continue to be, significantly affected by money market conditions.         
   -35-   

Table of Contents  

   The following table indicates the amount of Millennium s certificates of deposits by time remaining
until maturity as of December 31, 2005:       
     Borrowings       As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, Millennium is required to own capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank and is authorized to apply for advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank. Each Federal
Home Loan Bank credit program has its own interest rate, which may be fixed or variable, and range of maturities. The Federal Home Loan Bank may prescribe the acceptable uses to which these advances may be put, as well as on the size of the advances
and repayment provisions. The advances are collateralized by Millennium s investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock and by Millennium s investment securities. At December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, $65.0 million and $26.5
million, respectively, was outstanding to the Federal Home Loan Bank.      Millennium s borrowings also include securities sold under
agreements to repurchase and federal funds purchased. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are collateralized with Government Agency securities. The proceeds are used by Millennium for general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2005,
and December 31, 2004, Millennium had $0 and $0, respectively, of securities sold under agreements to repurchase. At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, Millennium had $215 thousand and 7.1 million,
respectively, in federal funds purchased.      Millennium uses borrowings to supplement deposits when borrowings are available at a lower
overall cost to Millennium or they can be invested at a positive rate of return.      The following tables set forth the maximum month-end
balances, average balances and weighted average rates, of Federal Home Loan Bank advances, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and other borrowings for the periods indicated.       

-36-   

Table of Contents  

    Liquidity and Capital Resources       Liquidity is the ability to meet present and future financial obligations either through the sale of existing assets or the acquisition of additional funds through asset and liability management. Cash flow projections
are regularly reviewed and updated to assure that adequate liquidity is provided. As a result of Millennium s management of liquid assets and the ability to generate liquidity through increasing deposits, management believes that Millennium
maintains overall liquidity that is sufficient to satisfy its depositors  requirements and meet its customers  credit needs.      Millennium s primary sources of funds are deposits, borrowings, and amortization, prepayments and maturities of outstanding loans and investments, and loan sales. While scheduled payments from the amortization of loans and securities
are relatively predictable sources of funds, deposit flows and loan prepayments are greatly influenced by general interest rates, economic conditions and competition. Excess funds are invested in overnight deposits to fund cash requirements
experienced in the normal course of business. Millennium has been able to generate sufficient cash through its deposits as well as borrowings.      For the year ended December 31, 2005 operating activities provided approximately $8.6 million in cash as compared to the use of approximately $14.6 million in cash in 2004. This change resulted primarily from the net decrease in loans
held for sale of $7.3 million in 2005 as compared to the net increase in loans held for sale of $20.3 million in 2004. Investing activities absorbed approximately $56.2 million and $40.1 million respectively for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004. In 2005, the change resulted primarily from a net increase in investment securities of $44.6 million and the purchase of $8 million in bank owned life insurance. In 2004, investing activities were primarily a result of a net increase
in loans of $41.3 million and net increase in investment securities of $2.4 million. In addition, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, financing activities provided $50.1 and $55.4 million, respectively. In 2005, this change was
mainly attributable to an increase in deposits of $18.2 million and a $38.5 million increase in FHLB borrowings. These increases were partially offset by a $6.9 million decrease in federal funds purchased. For the year ended 2004, financing
activities were a result of the proceeds from issuance of common stock netting $24.6 million. In addition net increases in deposits of $8.7 million and net increases in FHLB borrowings of $16.1 million occurred.      Millennium uses its sources of funds primarily to meet operating needs, to pay deposit withdrawals and fund loan commitments. At December 31, 2005
and December 31, 2004 total approved loan commitments were $51.6 million and $75.6 million, respectively. Certificates of deposit scheduled to mature in one year or less at December 31, 2005, totaled $78.1 million.      At December 31, 2005, we had a borrowing limit of $102.5 million with the Federal Home Loan Bank. Our outstanding borrowings from the Federal Home
Loan Bank totaled $ 65.0 million at December 31, 2005, which leaves an additional borrowing capacity of $37.5 million. Our borrowing limit is based on 25% of Bank assets at each quarter end date. We also have two lines of credit with the
Community Bankers Bank in Virginia in the amounts of $12.0 million secured and $10.1 million unsecured. Our outstanding borrowings from the Community Bankers Bank totaled $0.2 million at December 31, 2005, with remaining available lines of
credit of $21.9 million. In addition, we have a $5 million line of credit with The Bankers Bank. There were no borrowings outstanding against this line at December 31, 2005.      Management intends to fund anticipated loan closings and operating needs through cash on hand, brokered deposits, proceeds from the sale of loans, cash
generated from operations and anticipated increases in deposits. Current and anticipated marketing programs will be primarily targeted at the attraction of lower cost transaction accounts.      Capital represents funds, earned or obtained, over which financial institutions can exercise greater control in comparison with deposits and borrowed
funds. The adequacy of Millennium s capital is reviewed by management on an ongoing basis with reference to size, composition and quality of Millennium s resources and consistent with regulatory requirements and industry standards.
Management seeks to maintain a capital structure that will support anticipated asset growth and absorb any potential losses.         
   -37-   

Table of Contents  

   Millennium Bankshares and Millennium Bank are subject to regulatory capital requirements of the Federal
Reserve. At December 31, 2005, Millennium exceeded all such regulatory capital requirements as shown in the following table.       

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements       The following table
summarizes our off-balance sheet arrangements.       
    Standby letters of credit represent commitments by us to repay a third party beneficiary when a
customer fails to repay a loan or debt instrument. The terms and risk of loss involved in issuing standby letters of credit are similar to those involved in issuing loan commitments and extending credit. In addition to credit risk, we also have
liquidity risk associated with stand by letters of credit because funding for these obligations could be required immediately.         
   -38-   

Table of Contents  

   Commitments to extend credit are loan commitments, which assure a borrower of financing for a specified
period of time at a specified rate on a loan Millennium intends to hold in its portfolio. The risk to Millennium under such commitments is limited to the terms of the contracts. For example, Millennium may not be obligated to advance funds if the
customer s financial condition deteriorates or if the customer fails to meet specific covenants. An approved loan commitment represents a potential credit risk once the funds are advanced to the customer. This is also a liquidity risk since the
customer may demand immediate cash that would require funding and interest rate risk as market interest rates may rise above the rate committed.      Our mortgage banking activities generally include two types of commitments by Millennium. The first type is a rate lock commitment with the client. In a rate lock commitment, a client while in process of obtaining approval for a fixed rate
secondary market loan can, at their own determination, fix or  lock in  the rate on the loan. The commitments are generally for periods of 60 to 90 days and are at market rates. To mitigate risk from market interest rate fluctuations and
to provide for a mechanism to deliver these loans into the secondary market, we generally enter into mandatory forward sales contracts on rate lock commitments. Second, we also have mandatory sales contracts covering loans held for sale, which
represents a price commitment.       Aggregate Contractual Obligations       The following table summarizes our contractual obligations.       
    Deposits represent non-interest bearing, money market, savings, NOW, certificates of deposits,
brokered and all other deposits held by the Company. Amounts that have an indeterminate maturity period are included in the less than one-year category above.      FHLB borrowings represent the amounts that are due to the FHLB of Atlanta. These amounts have fixed maturity dates. Some of these borrowings, although fixed, are subject to conversion provisions at the option of the
FHLB or Millennium can prepay these advances without a penalty. Management does not believe these advances will be converted in the near term.      Lease commitments represent the total minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases.         
   -39-   

Table of Contents  

    Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices and Seasonality       The financial statements that are included in this document have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles which require
the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars, without considering changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation.      Unlike industrial companies, virtually all of the assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates
have a more significant impact on a financial institution s performance than the effects of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily move in the same direction or in the same magnitude as the price of goods and services,
since such prices are affected by inflation.       Caution About Forward Looking Statements       We make forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These forward looking statements include statements
regarding our profitability, liquidity, allowance for loan losses, interest rate sensitivity, market risk, growth strategy and financial and other goals. The words  believes,   expects,   may,   will, 
 should,   projects,   contemplates,   anticipates,   forecasts,   intends  or other similar words or terms are intended to identify forward looking statements.      These forward-looking statements are subject to significant uncertainties because they are based upon or are affected by factors including:   

The ability to successfully manage our growth or implement our growth strategies if we are unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities to expand in the future;

Reliance on our management team, including our ability to attract and retain key personnel;         

The successful management of interest rate risk, including managing changing rates and policies,         

Risks inherent in making loans such as repayment risks and fluctuating collateral values;         

Problems with technology utilized by us;         

Competition with other banks and financial institutions, and companies outside of the banking industry, including those companies that have substantially greater access to capital
and other resources;         

Demand, development and acceptance of new products and services;         

Changing trends in customer profiles and behavior;         

Maintaining capital levels adequate to support our growth;         

Maintaining cost controls and asset qualities as we open or acquire new branches;         

Changes in general economic and business conditions in our market area; and         

Changes in banking and other laws and regulations applicable to us.         

The other matters discussed under Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.        Because of these uncertainties, our actual future results may be materially different from the results indicated by these forward-looking statements. In addition, our past results of operations do not necessarily
indicate our future results.      
  ITEM 7A  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK       Market risk is the risk of loss in a financial
instrument arising from adverse changes in market rates or prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices. Millennium s primary market risk exposure is interest rate risk. The ongoing
monitoring and management of this risk is an important component of Millennium s asset/liability management process, which is governed by policies established by its Board of Directors that are reviewed and approved annually. The Board of
Directors delegated the responsibility for carrying out asset/liability management policies to the Asset/Liability Committee ( ALCO ) of the Bank. In this capacity, ALCO develops guidelines and strategies that govern the Company s
asset/liability management related activities, based upon estimated market risk sensitivity, policy limits and overall market interest rate levels and trends.         
   -40-   

Table of Contents  

   Millennium uses two primary methods to evaluate market risk to changes in interest rates: static gap
analysis and simulation analysis.      Static gap is the difference between interest-sensitive assets and interest-sensitive liabilities
maturing or repricing within a specific time interval measured at a balance sheet date. The gap can be managed by repricing assets or liabilities, by selling investments, by replacing an asset or liability prior to maturity, or by adjusting the
interest rate during the life of an asset or liability. Matching the amount of assets and liabilities repricing in the same time interval helps to hedge the risk and minimize the impact on net income due to changes in market interest rates. As
reflected in the table below, Millennium, at December 31, 2005, had $121.2 million more in liabilities than assets that can reprice within one year or less and therefore we were in a liability sensitive position. Generally, a liability
sensitive position is favorable to the Bank in a decreasing rate environment and unfavorable to the Bank in an increasing rate environment. It is important to recognize that deposits with no stated maturity have been presented in this gap table in
the 3 months or less bucket because they can reprice in that time frame. These deposits may not indeed reprice that quickly, however.      The
following table presents the amounts of Millennium s interest sensitive assets and liabilities that mature or reprice in the periods indicated exclusive of non-accrual loans.       

(1)  
  Loans maturing or repricing in three months or less includes $22.0 million of mortgage loans held for sale.     

(2)  
  Excludes Federal Reserve, Federal Home Loan Bank, and Community Bankers Bank stock.     

(3)  
  Anticipates prepayments on FNMA and FHLMC pools.        Contractual principal repayments of loans do not necessarily reflect the actual term of Millennium s loan portfolio. The average life of mortgage loans is substantially less than their contractual terms because of loan prepayments and
enforcement of due-on-sale clauses, which gives the Bank the right to declare a loan immediately due and payable in the event, among other things, the borrower sells the real property subject to the mortgage and the loan is not repaid. In addition,
certain borrowers increase their equity in the security property by making payments in excess of those required under the terms of the mortgage.         
   -41-   

Table of Contents  

   Due to the inherent limitations of gap analysis, Millennium utilizes simulation analysis as its primary
tool for managing interest rate risk. Simulation analysis calculates expected net interest income under varying interest rate scenarios and the theoretical impact of immediate and sustained rate changes referred to as  rate shocks . This
methodology is more sophisticated than the traditional gap analysis and more accurately reflects the impact on net interest income from embedded options in earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Millennium places a higher degree of
reliance on simulation modeling in its ALCO decision-making process. The simulation model is prepared and updated on a regular basis. This sensitivity analysis is compared to ALCO policy limits, which specify a maximum tolerance level for net
interest income exposure of no more than -15%.      The following reflects the results of Millennium s net interest income sensitivity
analysis at December 31, 2005.       
    At December 31, 2005, Millennium s interest rate risk model indicated that, in a rising
rate environment of 200 basis points, net interest income could increase by 13.9%. In the same time period the interest rate risk model indicated that in a declining rate environment of 200 basis points, net interest income would decrease 23.9%.
Millennium s net interest income at risk is out of policy limits in the down 200 basis point shock. Management has been actively engaging in strategies to minimize the identified risk in the declining rate environment and anticipates the
magnitude of sensitivity in the declining rate environment will continue to diminish in 2006. Management also does not view the likelihood of a 200 basis point decline in the near term as very probable but is nonetheless currently contemplating
additional actions which can be taken to further minimize the identified risk in the declining rate environment.      The preceding sensitivity
analysis does not represent a forecast and should not be relied upon as being indicative of expected operating results. These hypothetical estimates are based upon numerous assumptions, including the nature and timing of interest rate levels such as
yield curve shape, prepayments on loans and securities, deposit decay rates, pricing decisions on loans and deposits, reinvestment or replacement of asset and liability cash flows. While assumptions are developed based upon current economic and
local market conditions, Millennium cannot make any assurances about the predictive nature of these assumptions, including how customer preferences or competitor influences might change.      Also, as market conditions vary from those assumed in the sensitivity analysis, actual results will also differ due to factors such as prepayment and
refinancing levels likely deviating from those assumed, the varying impact of interest rate change, caps or floors on adjustable rate assets, the potential effect of changing debt service levels on customers with adjustable rate loans, depositor
early withdrawals and product preference changes, and other internal and external variables. Furthermore, the sensitivity analysis does not reflect actions that ALCO might take in response to, or in anticipation of, changes in interest rates.
     While ALCO routinely monitors simulated net interest income sensitivity over a rolling two-year horizon, it also employs additional tools
to monitor potential longer-term interest rate risk.      Millennium also performs economic value of equity modeling as a measurement tool. The
market value of equity measures the degree to which the market value of Millennium s assets and liabilities will change given a change in interest rates.         
   -42-   

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents the economic value of equity shock analysis at December 31, 2005.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA       The following financial statements are filed as a
part of this Form 10-K.      Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm      Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004      Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003      Consolidated
Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003      Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
   -43-   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       To the Board of Directors and Stockholders      Millennium Bankshares Corporation      Reston, Virginia      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Millennium Bankshares Corporation as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audit. The financial statements of Millennium Bankshares Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2003 were audited by other auditors whose report dated January 31, 2004, expressed an unqualified
opinion on those statements.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

Crowe Chizek and Company LLC   
 
   Lexington, Kentucky      March 23, 2006         
   -44-   

Table of Contents  

   MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)       
    The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these
statements.         
   -45-   

Table of Contents  

   MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME      YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003
     (dollars in thousands, except share data)       
    The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.         
   -46-   

Table of Contents  

   MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY      YEARS ENDED DECEMBER
31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003      (dollars in thousands except share data)       
    The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these
statements.         
   -47-   

Table of Contents  

   MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS      YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003
     (dollars in thousands except share data)       
    The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these
statements.         
   -48-   

Table of Contents  

   MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)       

1.   
   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES          Organization and Principles of Consolidation       The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Millennium Bankshares Corporation (the Corporation) and its subsidiaries: Millennium Bank, N.A., Millennium Brokerage Services, Inc. (terminated in 2004), Millennium e-Banking Solutions, L.L.C. (terminated in 2005), Millennium Insurance Services,
Inc. (terminated in 2003) and Millennium Financial, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Corporation was incorporated in 1998 and began operations on April 1, 1999.      Millennium Bank, N.A., (the Bank) is a federally chartered national bank and is subject to regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
(OCC). The accounts of Millennium Bank, N.A. include its subsidiary, Millennium Capital, Inc. and include other investments whose equity is not material to Millennium Bank, N.A. The principal activities of the Bank are to attract deposits and
originate loans. Millennium Capital, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bank, conducted mortgage banking, as permitted by applicable regulations, for nationally chartered banks until August 31, 2005. In September 2005, the Bank began
conducting its mortgage banking operations through three majority-owned operating subsidiaries; Millennium Sunbelt Mortgage, LLC, Millennium Bank Mortgage, LLC and Millennium Hyland Mortgage, LLC. The Bank is engaged in the general business of
banking, aimed at serving individuals, small and medium sized businesses and the professional communities principally located throughout the Northern Virginia and Richmond, Virginia areas. The Bank conducts full-service banking operations from
several branches in these areas and its headquarters is located in Reston, Virginia.      The accounting and reporting policies of the
Corporation are in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and conform to general practices within the banking industry. The more significant of these policies are discussed below.       Reclassifications       Certain
reclassifications have been made to prior period balances to conform to the current year.       Use of Estimates       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
vary from the estimates that were used. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change in the near term relate to the determination of the allowance for loan losses and the fair value of financial instruments   
  The determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is based on estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant changes in
the economic environment and market conditions. In connection with the determination of the estimated losses on loans, management obtains independent appraisals for significant collateral.         
   -49-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

1.   
   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  (continued)         Significant Concentrations       Most of the Corporation s activities are with customers located within the Northern
Virginia and Richmond, Virginia areas. Most of the Corporation s loans are secured by real estate in these areas. Later footnotes discuss the types of securities that the Corporation invests in and the types of lending the Corporation engages
in. The Corporation does not have any significant concentrations in any one customer.      The Corporation s primary source of income is
interest income and gains from sale of loans. Maintaining a high level of loan sale gains depends on the ability to continue to make a large amount of loans that could be negatively affected by higher interest rates, economic slowdowns or recessions
in their market areas.       Investment Securities       Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Bank has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Securities held-to-maturity are carried at amortized cost. The amortization of
premiums and accretion of discounts are recognized in interest income using methods approximating the interest method over the period to maturity. The Corporation does not have any securities classified as held to maturity.      Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale. Securities available-for-sale are carried
at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in other comprehensive income. Realized gains (losses) on securities available-for-sale are included in other income (expense). Gains and losses on the sale of securities are recorded on the
trade date and are determined using the specific identification method.      Declines in the fair value of securities below their cost that are
deemed to be other than temporary are reflected in earnings as realized losses. In estimating other-than-temporary impairment losses, management considers independent price quotations, projected target prices of investment analysts within the short
term and the financial condition of the issuer.       Loans Held for Sale       Loans originated and intended for sale in the secondary market are carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value in the aggregate. Unrealized
losses, if any, are recognized through a valuation allowance by charges to income. Loans later transferred to a long-term investment classification are transferred at the lower of cost or market value on the transfer date. Any difference between the
carrying amount of the loan and its outstanding principal balance at the time of transfer is recognized as an adjustment to yield by the interest method.       Loans and Loan Fees       The Corporation grants mortgage, commercial and consumer loans to customers. A
substantial portion of the loan portfolio is represented by commercial and mortgage loans secured by real estate throughout the Northern Virginia and Richmond, Virginia areas. The ability of the Corporation s debtors to honor their contracts is
dependent upon the real estate and general economic conditions in these areas.         
   -50-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

1.   
   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  (continued)         Loans and Loan Fees  (continued)      Loans that management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or
until maturity or pay-off generally are reported at their outstanding unpaid principal balances adjusted for charge-offs, the allowance for loan losses, and any deferred fees or costs on originated loans. Interest on loans is generally computed
using the simple interest method.      Loan origination and commitment fees, as well as certain direct origination costs, are deferred and
amortized as a yield adjustment over the lives of the related loans using the interest method. Amortization of deferred loan fees is discontinued when a loan is placed on non-accrual status.      The accrual of interest on mortgage and commercial loans is discontinued at the time the loan is 90 days delinquent unless the credit is well secured and
in process of collection. Credit card loans and other personal loans are typically charged off no later than 180 days past due. In all cases, loans are placed on non-accrual status or charged off at an earlier date if collection of principal or
interest is considered doubtful.      All interest accrued but not collected for loans that are placed on non-accrual or charged off is reversed
against interest income. The interest on these loans is accounted for on the cash-basis or cost-recovery method, until qualifying for return to accrual. Loans are returned to accrual status when all the principal and interest amounts contractually
due are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured.       Allowance for Loan Losses       The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level, which, in management s judgment, is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in the loan
portfolio. The amount of the allowance is based on management s evaluation of the collectibility of the loan portfolio, including the nature of the portfolio, credit concentrations, trends in historical loss experience, specific impaired loans,
economic conditions, and other risks inherent in the portfolio.      A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and
events, it is probable that the Corporation will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Factors considered by management in determining impairment
include payment status, collateral value, and the probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments due. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired. Management
determines the significance of payment delays and payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length of the delay, the reasons for the delay, the
borrower s prior payment record, and the amount of the shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed. Allowances for impaired loans are generally determined based on collateral values or the present value of estimated cash flows.
        
   -51-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

1.   
   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  (continued)         Allowance for Loan Losses  (continued)      Although management uses available information to recognize losses on loans, because
of uncertainties associated with local economic conditions, collateral values, and future cash flows on impaired loans, it is reasonably possible that a material change could occur in the allowance for loan losses in the near term. However, the
amount of the change that is reasonably possible cannot be estimated. The allowance is increased by a provision for loan losses, which is charged to expense and reduced by charge-offs, net of recoveries. Changes in the allowance relating to impaired
loans are charged or credited to the provision for loan losses. Past due status is determined based on contractual terms.       Federal Home
Loan Bank Stock and Federal Reserve Bank Stock       The Bank, as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Atlanta, is required to
hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB consisting of two components; membership stock equal to the lesser of a specified percentage of the Bank s total assets on December 31 of the prior year, or 0.20 percent, plus activity-based stock
which is 4.50 percent times the Bank s outstanding advances from the FHLB. This investment is recorded at cost and periodically evaluated for impairment. Both cash and stock dividends are reported as income. The amount of FHLB stock was $3,628,
and $1,818 at December 31, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The Bank, as a member of the Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) is also required to hold shares of capital stock in the FRB. The amount of FRB stock was $864 and $871 at December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively.       Premises and Equipment       Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the lease using the straight-line method. Furniture and equipment are
depreciated over estimated useful lives of three and seven years using the straight-line method. Computer hardware and software are depreciated over estimated useful lives of three and five years using the straight-line method. Automobiles are
depreciated over the estimated useful live of three years using the straight-line method. The Bank depreciates furniture and equipment using accelerated methods for income tax reporting.      Expenditures for maintenance, repairs, and improvements that do not materially extend the useful lives of property and equipment are charged to earnings.
When property or equipment is sold or otherwise disposed of, the cost and related accumulated depreciation or amortization are removed from the respective accounts, and the resulting gain or loss is reflected in current earnings.       Advertising Costs       Advertising costs
are charged to expense as incurred.       Stockholders  Equity and Dividend Payment Restrictions       The Corporation held its first public offering in February 2002. Costs related to the public offering totaled $665, resulting in net capital proceeds of
$7,960. In May of 2004 the Corporation completed a secondary offering resulting in 4,074,961 additional common shares being issued and the retirement of all warrants issued to the original investors resulting in 1,050,270 shares being issued. This
transaction yielded, net of fees, approximately $29,073 in additional capital.         
   -52-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

1.   
   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  (continued)         Stockholders  Equity and Dividend Payment Restrictions  (continued)      Federal and state banking regulations place certain
restrictions on dividends paid and loans or advances made by the Bank to the Corporation. The total amount of dividends that may be paid in any calendar year is limited to the current years  net profits, combined with the retained net profits
of the preceding two years and loans or advances from the Bank to the Corporation are limited to 10 percent of the Bank s capital stock and surplus on a secured basis. At December 31, 2005, the Bank had retained earnings of $2,429
available for the payment of dividends. No funds are available for loans or advances by the Bank to the Corporation.       Income Taxes
      Income tax expense is the total of current year income tax due or refundable and the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined using the liability (or balance sheet) method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is determined based on the tax effects of the temporary differences between the book
and tax bases of the various balance sheet assets and liabilities and gives current recognition to changes in tax rates and laws.      The Bank
pays state franchise tax in lieu of state income taxes.       Earnings per Common Share       Basic earnings per share represents income available to common stockholders divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the
period. Diluted earnings per share reflects additional common shares that would have been outstanding if dilutive potential common shares had been issued, as well as any adjustment to income that would result from the assumed issuance. Potential
common shares that may be issued by the Corporation relate to outstanding stock options and warrants, and are determined using the treasury stock method.       Stock Compensation Plans       Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation , encourages all entities to adopt a fair value based method of accounting for employee stock compensation plans, whereby compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the value of the award
and is recognized over the service period, which is usually the vesting period. However, it also allows an entity to continue to measure compensation cost for those plans using the intrinsic value based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , whereby compensation cost is the excess, if any, of the quoted market price at the stock grant date (or other measurement date) over the amount an employee must
pay to acquire the stock. Stock options issued under the Corporation s stock option plan have no intrinsic value at the grant date, and under Opinion No. 25 no compensation cost is recognized for them. The Corporation has elected to
continue with the accounting methodology in Opinion No. 25 and, as a result, has provided pro forma disclosures of net income and earnings per share and other disclosures, as if the fair value based method of accounting had been applied.
        
   -53-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

1.   
   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  (continued)         Stock Compensation Plans  (continued)      The Corporation has one stock-based compensation plan, which is described in footnote
16. The Corporation accounts for the plan under the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations. No stock-based employee compensation cost is reflected in
net income, as all options granted under the plan have an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of the grant. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the
Corporation had applied the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, to stock-based employee compensation.       
     The weighted average assumptions for options granted during the year and the resulting
estimated weighted average fair values per share used in our option pricing model are as follows:        
     Statements of Cash Flows       The Corporation considers all cash and amounts due from depository institutions, excluding Federal funds sold, to be cash equivalents for purposes of the
statements of cash flows.         
   -54-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

1.   
   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  (continued)         Off-Balance Sheet Credit Related Financial Instruments       In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation has entered into
commitments to extend credit, including commitments under credit card arrangements, commercial letters of credit, and standby letters of credit. Such financial instruments are recorded when they are funded.       Rate Lock Commitments       The
Corporation enters into commitments to originate loans whereby the interest rate on the loan is determined prior to funding (rate lock commitments). Rate lock commitments on mortgage loans that are intended to be sold are considered to be
derivatives. Accordingly, such commitments, along with any related fees received from potential borrowers, are recorded at fair value in derivative assets or liabilities, with changes in fair value recorded in the net gain or loss on sale of
mortgage loans. Fair value is based on fees currently charged to enter into similar agreements, and for fixed-rate commitments also considers the difference between current levels of interest rates and the committed rates. To minimize interest rate
risk, it is the policy of the Corporation to sell all fixed rate mortgage loans to the secondary market within 60 days of origination. At December 31, 2005, the Corporation had rate lock commitments to originate and sell loans held-for-sale of
$4.8 million.       Transfers of Financial Assets       Transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales, when control over the assets has been surrendered. Control over transferred assets is deemed to be surrendered when (1) the assets have been isolated from
the Corporation, (2) the transferee obtains the right (free of conditions that constrain it from taking advantage of that right) to pledge or exchange the transferred assets, and (3) the Corporation does not maintain effective control over
the transferred assets through an agreement to repurchase them before their maturity.       Recent Accounting Pronouncements    
  In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(Revised),  Share-Based Payments  ( SFAS No. 123R ). The provisions of SFAS
No. 123R require all public companies to record compensation cost for stock options provided to employees in return for employee service. The cost is measured at the fair value of the options when granted, and this cost is expensed over the
employee service period, which is normally the vesting period of the options. This will apply to awards granted or modified after the first quarter or year beginning after December 15, 2005. Compensation cost will also be recorded for prior
option grants that vest after the date of adoption. SFAS No. 123R also amends SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash Flows,  requiring the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as financing
instead of operating cash flows. In November 2005, the Corporation accelerated the vesting of 33,706 out-of-the-money stock options to avoid approximately $64 of compensation expense in future periods to be recognized upon adoption of SFAS 123R. The
effect on results of operations will depend on the level of future option grants, the fair value of the options granted at a future date, as well as the vesting period provided, and so cannot currently be predicted. Existing options that will vest
after adoption date are expected to result in additional compensation expense of approximately $38 in 2006 and $35 in 2007.         
   -55-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

1.   
   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  (continued)        In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154, ( SFAS No. 154 ),  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   A Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.  Among other things,
SFAS No. 154 requires that a voluntary change in accounting principle be applied retroactively with all prior period financial statements presented on the new accounting principle, unless it is impractical to do so. SFAS No. 154 also
provides that (1) a change in method of depreciating or amortizing a long-lived nonfinancial asset be accounted for as a change in estimate (prospectively) that was effected by a change in accounting principle, and (2) correction of errors
in previously issued financial statements should be termed a  restatement . The new standard is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Corporation does
not anticipate this revision will have a material effect on its financial statements.      In November 2005, the FASB issued Staff Position
No. 115-1 (FSP No. 115-1 ),  The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.  FSP No. 115-1 addresses the determination as to when an investment is impaired, whether that
impairment is other than temporary, and the measurement of the impairment loss. An investment is considered impaired if the fair value of the investment is less than its cost. If, after consideration of all available evidence, impairment is
determined to be other-than-temporary, then an impairment loss should be recognized equal to the difference between the investment s cost and its fair value. FSP No. 115-1 also includes accounting considerations subsequent to the
recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments. FSP No. 115-1 amends FASB Statements No. 115,  Accounting
for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities  and APB Opinion No. 18,  The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock.  The FSP is effective for all reporting periods beginning after December 15,
2005. The Corporation does not anticipate this revision will have a material effect on its financial statements.         
   -56-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

2.   
   RESTRICTIONS ON CASH AND AMOUNTS DUE FROM BANKS         The Bank is required to maintain a certain amount of cash on hand or with the Federal Reserve Bank. At December 31, 2005 and 2004 the required reserve balances amounted to $4,143 and $656, respectively.       

3.   
   SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE         The amortized cost
and fair market value of securities available for sale as shown in the balance sheets of the Bank are as follows:       
    The amortized cost and fair value of debt securities available for sale at December 31, 2005
by contractual maturity were as follows. Mortgage-backed securities, which are not due at a single maturity date, are shown separately.       
       
   -57-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

3.   
   SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE  (continued)        Investment securities with a carrying amount of $76,442 and $58,133 at December 31, 2005 and 2004 respectively, were pledged as collateral for Federal Home Loan Bank and Community Bankers Bank advances, to secure repurchase agreements
and for other purposes as required or permitted by law.      During 2005, 2004 and 2003, proceeds from the sale of investment securities totaled
$12,787, $48,236 and $50,141, respectively, with gross realized gains of $1, $160, and $507 respectively, and gross realized losses of $209, $156 and $55, respectively.      Securities with unrealized losses at year-end 2005 and 2004, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, are as follows:

Unrealized losses on bonds have not been recognized into income because the bonds are investment
grade, management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future, and the decline in fair value is due to changes in market interest rates, not in estimated cash flows. The fair value is expected to recover as the bonds approach their
maturity date or reset date.         
   -58-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

4.   
   LOANS RECEIVABLE         Loans receivable include the
following at December 31:       
    An analysis of the allowance for loan losses is as follows at December 31:       
    The Bank had non-accrual loans of $598 and $822 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
The Bank had $166 and $339 of loans past due 90 days or more still accruing at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.      Mortgage
loans totaling $6.9 million and $13.1 million, respectively, were pledged as collateral for Federal Home Loan Bank advances at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively under a blanket floating lien. .      Information regarding impaired loans is as follows:       
    No additional funds are committed to be advanced in connection with the impaired loans above.
        
   -59-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

5.   
   PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT         Premises and equipment
include the following at December 31:       
    Depreciation of premises and equipment charged to expense amounted to $839, $919, and $1,077 in
2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.       
    Time deposits in denominations of
$100,000 or more totaled $93,885 in 2005 and $75,878 in 2004. Time deposits mature as follows at December 31, 2005:       

7.   
   BORROWINGS         The Corporation had borrowings
outstanding as follows:       

(1)   
      Of the $42,100 in Federal Home Loan Bank advances outstanding with stated maturity dates at
December 31, 2005, $17,500 have adjustable rates which are reset quarterly, $9,600 have fixed rates to maturity, and $15,000 have fixed rates which may be convertible to three-month LIBOR. Advances are subject to prepayment penalties.
          
   -60-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

7.   
   BORROWINGS  (continued)         
    At December 31, 2005 the Corporation has the following lines of credit:       

(1)   
      Federal funds facilities. The Community Bankers Bank secured facility is collateralized with
pledged investment securities.        Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, which are classified as secured borrowings,
generally mature within one to four days from the transaction date. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are reflected at the amount of cash received in connection with the transaction. The Corporation may be required to provide additional
collateral based on the fair value of the underlying securities.      Quarter average balances, rates and maximum balances for FHLB borrowings
in 2005 and 2004 are indicated below.       
    The weighted average interest rate for FHLB borrowings at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was
4.27% and 2.49% respectively.         
   -61-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

8.   
   SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES         On June 27, 2002,
Millennium Capital Trust I, Inc., a subsidiary of the Corporation, was formed for the purpose of issuing redeemable trust preferred securities and purchasing the Corporation s junior subordinated debentures, which are its sole assets. The
Corporation owns all of the Trust s outstanding common securities. On July 11, 2002, $8,000, of the trust preferred securities were issued in a pooled offering. The securities have a LIBOR-indexed floating rate of interest, which is set
and payable on a quarterly basis. During 2005, the interest rates ranged from 5.72 percent to 7.80 percent. During 2004, the interest rates ranged from 4.79 percent to 5.72 percent. The securities have a maturity date of July 2032. The Corporation
has the option of redeeming the securities beginning July 2007.      Up to 25 percent of Tier 1 capital may include the above securities for
regulatory capital adequacy determination purposes. The portion of the securities not considered as Tier 1 capital will be included in Tier 2 capital. The Corporation and the Trust believe that, taken together, the Corporation s obligations
under the junior subordinated debentures, the Indenture, the Trust declaration and the Guarantee entered into in connection with the issuance of the trust preferred securities constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by the Corporation of the
Trust s obligations with respect to the trust preferred securities. Subject to certain exceptions and limitations, the Corporation may elect from time to time to defer interest payments on the junior subordinated debt securities, which would
result in a deferral of distribution payments on the related trust preferred securities.      In accordance with FASB Interpretation
No. 46, the Trust is not consolidated with the Company. Accordingly, the Company does not report the securities issued by the Trust as liabilities, and instead reports as liabilities the subordinated debentures issued by the Company and held by
the Trust, as they are no longer eliminated in consolidation.       

9.   
   INCOME TAXES         The provision for federal income
taxes consists of the following:       
    Deferred income taxes reflect temporary differences in the recognition of revenue and expenses for
tax reporting and financial statement purposes, principally because certain items, such as, allowance for loan losses and loan fees, are recognized in different periods for financial reporting and tax return purposes. A valuation allowance has not
been established for deferred tax assets. Realization of the deferred tax assets is dependent on generating sufficient taxable income. Although realization is not assured management believes it is more likely than not that all of the deferred tax
asset will be realized. Deferred tax assets are recorded in other assets.         
   -62-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

9.   
   INCOME TAXES  (continued)        Net deferred tax assets
are comprised of the following at December 31:       
    A reconciliation between actual tax expense and taxes computed at the statutory federal rate of
34% for each of the three years in the period ended December 31 follows:       
     
    The Corporation (on a
consolidated basis) and the Bank s primary supervisory agencies are the Federal Reserve and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). The supervisory agencies have mandated certain minimum capital standards for the industry and pursuant
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ( FDICIA ) have outlined various levels of capital adequacy for the industry under  prompt corrective action  regulations.      Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that if
undertaken, could have a direct material affect on the Corporation and the Bank s financial statements. Under the regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Corporation and the Bank
must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of its assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance-sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The Corporation and the Bank s capital amounts and
classification under the prompt corrective action guidelines are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors.      Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in the table
below) of total risk-based capital and Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets (as defined in the regulations) and of Tier I         
   -63-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

10.   
   REGULATORY MATTERS  (continued)        capital to adjusted
total assets (as defined). Management believes as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, that the Corporation and the Bank meet all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject.      As of December 31, 2005, the most recent notification from the regulators categorized the Bank as well capitalized under the regulatory framework for
prompt corrective action. To be categorized as well capitalized the Bank must maintain minimum total risk-based, Tier I risk-based, and Tier I leverage ratios as set forth in the table. There are no conditions or events since that notification that
management believes have changed the institution s category.      The Corporation s actual capital amounts and ratios are as follows:

(1)  
  The Consolidated entity is not subject to the prompt corrective action rules.           
   -64-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

    The Bank leases its corporate
headquarters and most of its branch facilities under non-cancelable lease agreements. Most of these leases provide for the payment of property taxes and other costs by the Bank and include one or more renewal options ranging up to ten years.
     The following are the future minimum lease payments at December 31, 2005:       
    Rent expense amounted to $1,038, $697, and $597 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively.       
    The Corporation maintains a
401(k) profit sharing plan, which has also been adopted by Millennium Bank, N.A., Millennium Capital, Inc., and Millennium Brokerage Services, Inc. The Plan covers substantially all full time employees. The Plan allows the Corporation, and its
affiliates, to make contributions to the plan at the discretion of management. The Corporation and affiliates made no contributions to the 401(k) plan for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.       

13.   
   OTHER INCOME AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSE         Other
income consists of the following:       
    Other operating expenses consist of the following:       
       
   -65-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

14.   
   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS         Through the normal
course of business, the Corporation receives general legal services from law firms under the control of certain Directors. Legal fees paid to these law firms were $49, $74, and $38 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003,
respectively.      In 2005 and 2004, the Corporation leased space in Herndon, Virginia from a related party in the amount of $121 and $121,
respectively and space in Reston, Virginia in the amount of $219 and $222, respectively.      The Bank has entered into loan transactions with
certain directors, executive officers, and their affiliates. The aggregate amount of loans to such related parties at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $7,179 and $6,911, respectively. During 2005, new loans made to such related parties amounted
to $1,748 and payments amounted to $1,480. During 2004, new loans made to such related parties amounted to $529 and payments amounted to $3,195.      The Bank has also entered into deposit transactions with certain directors, executive officers, and their affiliates. Total deposits at December 31, 2005 and 2004 were $3,450 and $3,587, respectively.      In 2003, one of the executive officers elected to accept stock options for 31,688 shares valued at approximately $78 in lieu of cash compensation due for
2003.       

15.   
   COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT          Credit Related Financial Instruments       The Corporation is a party to credit related financial instruments with
off-balance-sheet risk in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its customers. These financial instruments include commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit and commercial letters of credit. Such commitments
involve to varying degrees elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amount recognized in the consolidated balance sheets.      The Corporation s exposure to credit loss is represented by the contractual amount of these commitments. The Corporation follows the same credit policies in making commitments as it does for on-balance-sheet instruments.      At December 31, the following financial instruments, the majority of which are at variable rates, were outstanding whose contract amounts represent
credit risk:       
       
   -66-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

15.   
   COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT  (continued)         Credit Related Financial Instruments  (continued)      Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend
to a customer as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. These loans are considered in the pipeline
until closing of the loan.      Unfunded commitments are closed loans where the customer has not drawn the entire amount of the loan and include
commercial lines-of-credit, revolving credit lines and overdraft protection agreements. These commitments may expire without being drawn upon or may be partially drawn on. Therefore, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future
cash requirements.      Commercial and standby letters-of-credit are conditional commitments issued by the Corporation to guarantee the
performance of a customer to a third party. These letters-of-credit are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements. Essentially all letters of credit issued have expiration dates within one year. The credit risk involved
in issuing letters-of-credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan facilities to customers. The Corporation generally holds collateral supporting those commitments if deemed necessary.       Legal       Various legal claims also
arise from time to time in the normal course of business, including certain claims made by a former manager of one of the Bank s mortgage operating subsidiaries against the Bank alleging breaches of contracts. No amount of loss, if any, can be
reasonably estimated at this time, therefore, no liability has been recorded in the consolidated financial statements. However, the Corporation intends to defend itself against these allegations.       Recourse on Loans       The Corporation
has sold loans during the year with limited recourse that is applicable only for the first 120 days. Management estimates no material expenses due to these provisions       
    On August 12, 1999, the
Corporation adopted an Incentive Stock Option Plan. The total number of shares granted under the plan cannot exceed 2,000,000 shares. The plan is administered by the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the plan will terminate as of
August 11, 2009. The Board has given the Chairman of the Corporation the authority to grant 300,000 shares to key employees at his discretion. Under the plan, the option price of the shares must be granted at not less than fair market value,
the options term may not exceed ten years and the options are not transferable.         
   -67-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except per share data)         

16.   
   STOCK OPTION PLAN  (continued)         
    In November 2005, the Corporation accelerated the vesting of out-of-the-money stock options
granted to certain key executives during 2005 totaling 33,706. The acceleration was executed to reduce future compensation expense to be recognized upon adoption of SFAS 123R.      Information pertaining to options outstanding at December 31, 2005 is as follows:       
    The vesting period of the remaining options is as follows:       
       
   -68-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

    The following table shows the
weighted average number of shares used in computing earnings per share and the effect on weighted average number of shares of potential dilutive common stock.       
    No stock options or warrants were considered anti-dilutive in computing weighted average shares.

18.   
   OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME         The components of other
comprehensive income and related tax effects are as follows:       
       
   -69-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

19.   
   PARENT COMPANY ACTIVITY         The balance sheets and
statements of income for the Corporation only, are as follows at December 31:      BALANCE SHEETS       
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME       
       
   -70-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

19.   
   PARENT COMPANY ACTIVITY  (continued)        STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS       
       
   -71-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

20.   
   ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS         The
assumptions used and the estimates disclosed represent management s best judgment of appropriate valuation methods. These estimates are based on pertinent information available to management as of the respective reporting dates. In certain
cases, fair values are not subject to precise quantification or verification and may change as economic and market factors, and management s evaluation of those factors change.      Although management uses its best judgment in estimating the fair value of these financial instruments, there are inherent limitations in any estimation
technique. Therefore, these fair value estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Corporation would realize in a market transaction. Because of the wide range of valuation techniques and the numerous estimates, which must be
made, it may be difficult to make reasonable comparisons of the Corporation s fair value information to that of other financial institutions. SFAS 107 excludes certain financial instruments from its disclosure requirement. Because of this and
the many uncertainties discussed above, the aggregate fair value amount should in no way be construed as representative of the underlying value of the Corporation. The estimated fair values of the Corporation s financial instruments at
December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:       
       
   -72-   

Table of Contents  

   MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except per share data)       

20.   
   ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  (continued)        The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value amounts at December 31, 2005 and 2004:       Cash
and Cash Equivalents       Carrying amount approximates fair value.       Loans Held for Sale       Fair value is
based on selling prices arranged by arms-length contracts with third parties.       Loans Receivable, Net of Allowance       Fair value of loans is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses based on contractual repayment schedules. The discount rates used in these analyses
are based on either the interest rates paid on U.S. Treasury securities of comparable maturities adjusted for credit risk and non-interest operating costs or the interest rates currently offered by the Bank for loans with similar terms to borrowers
of similar credit quality.       Securities Available-for Sale       Fair value is based on quoted market prices, excluding Federal Home Loan Bank stock. Federal Home Loan Bank stock approximates fair value based on the
redemption provisions of the Federal Home Loan Bank.       Deposit Liabilities       The carrying amount of deposit liabilities payable on demand, consisting of NOW accounts, money market deposits, statement savings and other deposit
accounts approximates fair value. Fair value of fixed-rate certificates of deposit is estimated based on discounted cash flow analysis using the remaining maturity of the underlying accounts and interest rates currently offered on certificates of
deposit with similar original maturities       Borrowings       The carrying amount of short-term FHLB advances approximates fair value. Fair value of all other borrowings is estimated based on discounted cash flow analysis using the remaining maturity of the borrowings and
interest rates currently in effect on borrowings with similar original maturities.       Accrued Interest       The carrying amounts of accrued interest approximate fair value.         
   -73-   

Table of Contents  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)         

21.   
   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION  (unaudited)         

(1)  
  The quarterly financial information for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 includes the write-off of merger-related expenses totaling $513 associated with the proposed
acquisition of Albemarle First Bank, which was terminated in November 2005. In addition, the Corporation incurred $207 in pre- tax securities losses in conjunction with investment portfolio restructuring designed to improve the investment portfolio
risk profile.           
   -74-   

Table of Contents  

   MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004      (dollars in thousands, except share data)       

22.   
   SEGMENT INFORMATION         The reportable segments are
determined by the products and services offered, primarily distinguished between banking and mortgage banking operations. Loans, investments and deposits provide the revenues in the banking operation, and loan sales provide the revenue in mortgage
banking. All operations are domestic.      The accounting policies used are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting
policies except that loan fees are not deferred at the segment level. Segment performance is evaluated using net income. There is no goodwill. Income taxes are allocated separately and indirect expenses are allocated against revenue. Transactions
among segments are made at fair value. Information reported internally for performance assessment follows.       
    In September 2005, the Corporation restructured its mortgage operations. Prior to September 2005,
the Corporation was recording gross gains on mortgage sales, which were offset by compensation expense and other direct expenses for the mortgage department. Under the new structure, the Corporation established contractual relationships with three
mortgage banking limited liability companies which provide for a  per loan  fee to be paid to the Bank (the 51% owner of each LLC) for each mortgage loan sold and requires the 49% owners (individuals affiliated with the particular
LLC s mortgage business or their affiliates) to pay for all costs of operation while retaining all other fee income.         
   -75-   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE        Not
applicable.      
  ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES       We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods required by the Securities
and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, those controls and procedures designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company s management to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
     As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. These officers concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective. Based upon that evaluation, our management concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material information relating to us (including our consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in our periodic filings with the Commission.      We also maintain a system of internal accounting controls that is designed to provide assurance that assets are safeguarded and that transactions are
executed in accordance with management s authorization and properly recorded. This system is continually reviewed and is augmented by written policies and procedures, the careful selection and training of qualified personnel and an internal
audit program to monitor its effectiveness. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation of it that occurred during our last fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting.      
  ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION       None.         
   -76-   

Table of Contents  

PART III        
  ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT       Incorporated by Reference from Millennium s Proxy
Statement to be filed for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (unless the information required by this Item is filed by amendment to this Form 10-K as provided in General Instruction G (3)).      
  ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION       Incorporated by Reference from Millennium s Proxy Statement to be filed for its
2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (unless the information required by this Item is filed by amendment to this Form 10-K as provided in General Instruction G (3)).      
  ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS       Incorporated
by Reference from Millennium s Proxy Statement to be filed for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (unless the information required by this Item is filed by amendment to this Form 10-K as provided in General Instruction G (3)).   
  
  ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS       Incorporated by Reference from Millennium s Proxy
Statement to be filed for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (unless the information required by this Item is filed by amendment to this Form 10-K as provided in General Instruction G (3)).      
  ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES       Incorporated by Reference from Millennium s Proxy Statement to be
filed for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (unless the information required by this Item is filed by amendment to this Form 10-K as provided in General Instruction G (3)).      
  ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES         

Exhibit No.   
      
     Description     
 
  3.1  
      
  Articles of Incorporation (restated in electronic format), attached as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registration Statement on Form SB-2/A, Registration No. 333-72500, filed with the Commission on
December 14, 2002, incorporated herein by reference.   

3.2  
      
  Bylaws, as amended.*   

4.1  
      
  Form of Common Stock Certificate, attached as Exhibit 4.1 to the Form SB-2, incorporated herein by reference.   

10.1  
      
  Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2004, between Millennium Bankshares Corporation, Millennium Bank and Carroll C. Markley.*   
       
   -77-   

Table of Contents  

10.2  
      
  Form of Employee Stock Option of Millennium Bankshares Corporation, attached as Exhibit 10.2 to the Form SB-2, incorporated herein by reference.   

10.3  
      
  Millennium Bankshares Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan, attached as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 333-101076, filed with the Commission on
November 7, 2002, incorporated herein by reference.   

10.4  
      
  Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of June 6, 2005, between Millennium Bank and Dale Phelps, attached as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Commission on June 10, 2005, incorporated herein by reference.   

10.5  
      
  Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2004, between Millennium Bank and Anita L. Shull.*   

10.6  
      
  Commercial Lease Agreement between 1051 Elden Street, L.L.C., the lessor, and Millennium Bank, N.A., the lessee, dated April 2, 2003, attached as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-QSB for the period ended June 30, 2003, incorporated herein by reference.   

21  
      
  List of Subsidiaries.*   

23  
      
  Consent of Crowe Chizek and Company LLC.*   

31.1  
      
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.*   

31.2  
      
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.*   

32.1  
      
  Statement of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350.*   

*  
  Filed herewith.           
   -78-   

Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES       In accordance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the registrant caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION   

Date: March 23, 2006  
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ Carroll C. Markley    

Carroll C. Markley   

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   
    In accordance with the Exchange Act, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
     
     Title    
     
     Date     

/s/ Carroll C. Markley     Carroll C. Markley   
     
    Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Director     (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  March 23, 2006   

/s/ Dale G. Phelps     Dale G. Phelps   
     
    Chief Financial Officer     (Principal Financial and     Accounting Officer)   
     
  March 23, 2006   

/s/ Michael Colen     Michael Colen   
     
  Director  
     
  March 23, 2006   

/s/ L. James D Agostino     L. James D Agostino   
     
  Director  
     
  March 23, 2006   

/s/ Susan B. Gregg     Susan B. Gregg   
     
  Director  
     
  March 23, 2006   

/s/ William P. Haggerty     William P. Haggerty   
     
  Director  
     
  March 23, 2006   

/s/ Grayson P. Haynes     Grayson P. Haynes   
     
  Director  
     
  March 23, 2006   

Stewart R.
Little   
     
  Director  

/s/ Arthur J. Novick     Arthur J. Novick   
     
  Director  
     
  March 23, 2006   

/s/ David B. Morey     David B. Morey   
     
  Director  
     
  March 23, 2006   

/s/ Robert T. Smoot     Robert T. Smoot   
     
  Director  
     
  March 23, 2006   

/s/ Douglas K. Turner     Douglas K. Turner   
     
  Director  
     
  March 23, 2006   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit No.   
      
     Description     
 
  3.1  
      
  Articles of Incorporation (restated in electronic format), attached as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registration Statement on Form SB-2/A, Registration No. 333-72500, filed with the Commission on
December 14, 2002, incorporated herein by reference.   

3.2  
      
  Bylaws, as amended.*   

4.1  
      
  Form of Common Stock Certificate, attached as Exhibit 4.1 to the Form SB-2, incorporated herein by reference.   

10.1  
      
  Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2004, between Millennium Bankshares Corporation, Millennium Bank and Carroll C. Markley.*   

10.2  
      
  Form of Employee Stock Option of Millennium Bankshares Corporation, attached as Exhibit 10.2 to the Form SB-2, incorporated herein by reference.   

10.3  
      
  Millennium Bankshares Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan, attached as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 333-101076, filed with the Commission on
November 7, 2002, incorporated herein by reference.   

10.4  
      
  Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of June 6, 2005, between Millennium Bank and Dale Phelps, attached as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Commission on June 10, 2005, incorporated herein by reference.   

10.5  
      
  Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2004, between Millennium Bank and Anita L. Shull.*   

10.6  
      
  Commercial Lease Agreement between 1051 Elden Street, L.L.C., the lessor, and Millennium Bank, N.A., the lessee, dated April 2, 2003, attached as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-QSB for the period ended June 30, 2003, incorporated herein by reference.   

21  
      
  List of Subsidiaries.*   

23  
      
  Consent of Crowe Chizek and Company LLC.*   

31.1  
      
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.*   

31.2  
      
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.*   

32.1  
      
  Statement of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350.*   

*  
  Filed herewith.     

<EX-3.2>
 2
 dex32.htm
 BYLAWS

Bylaws 

Exhibit 3.2       BYLAWS      OF      MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION      (As Amended through September 15, 2005)      ARTICLE I      STOCKHOLDERS  MEETINGS
     Section 1.  Annual Meeting.  The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of Directors and the transaction of such
other business as may properly come before it shall be held at the registered office of the Corporation in the Commonwealth of Virginia, or at such place within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia as may be determined by the Board of Directors.
The annual meeting shall be held on the first Thursday in the month of May of each and every year at 3:00 o clock, p.m., or at such date and time as may be determined by the Board of Directors. If that day is a legal holiday, the annual meeting
shall be held on the next succeeding day not a legal holiday. The Secretary shall give personally or by mail, not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, written
notice stating the place, date and hour of the meeting. If, at the stockholders  meeting, action will be taken to act on an amendment of the articles of incorporation, a plan of merger or share exchange, a proposed sale of assets other than in
the regular course of business, or the dissolution of the corporation, notice of the meeting shall be given to all stockholders, whether or not entitled to vote, not less than twenty-five nor more than sixty days before the meeting date, and such
notice shall state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider one of the aforementioned actions. If mailed, the notice shall be addressed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the record of the stockholders
of the Corporation unless he shall have filed with the Secretary of the Corporation a written request that notices intended for him be mailed to a different address, in which case it shall be mailed to the address designated in the request. Any
notice of meeting may be waived by a stockholder by submitting a signed waiver either before or after the meeting, or by attendance at the meeting.      Section 2.  Special Meeting.  Special meetings of stockholders, other than those regulated by statute, may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, a majority of the Directors
or the President and must be called by the President upon written request of the holders of 20% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at such special meeting. Written notice of such meetings stating the place within or without the Commonwealth
of Virginia, the date and hour of the meeting, the purpose or purposes for which it is called, and the name of the person or persons by whom or at whose direction the meeting is called shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before
the date set for the meeting; except that notice of a special meeting to act on an amendment of the articles of incorporation, a plan of merger or share exchange, a proposed sale of assets other than in the regular course of business, or the
dissolution of the corporation, shall be given to all stockholders not less than  
       
   1   

twenty-five nor more than sixty days before the meeting date, and such notice shall state that the purpose of the meeting is to consider one of the
aforementioned actions. If mailed, the notice shall be sent to each stockholder of record in the same manner as notice of the annual meeting. No business other than that specified in the notice of meeting shall be transacted at any such special
meeting. Notice of special meeting may be waived by submitting a signed waiver or by attendance at the meeting.      Section 3.
 Quorum   .   The presence, in person or by proxy, of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereat shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings of the
stockholders. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at such meeting, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have the power to adjourn the meeting to a future date at which a
quorum shall be present or represented. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting can continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. At said duly organized
meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.      Section 4.  Record
Date.  The Directors may fix in advance a date not less than ten nor more than seventy days prior to the date of any meeting of the stockholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of or action by the stockholders may be
effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting, as the record date for the determination of stockholders.      Section 5.
 Voting.  A stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting may vote at such meeting in person or by proxy. Except as otherwise provided by law or the Articles of Incorporation, every stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share
outstanding in his name on the record of stockholders. Except as these Bylaws otherwise provide, all corporate action shall be determined by vote of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote
thereon.      Section 6.  Proxies.  Every proxy must be dated and signed by the stockholder or by his attorney-in-fact. No proxy
shall be valid after the expiration of eleven months from the date of its execution, unless otherwise provided therein. Every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the stockholder executing it, except where an irrevocable proxy is permitted by
statute.      Section 7.  Consents.  Whenever by a provision of a statute or by these Bylaws the vote of stockholders is required or
permitted to be taken at a meeting thereof in connection with any corporate action, the meeting and the vote of stockholders may be dispensed with, if all the stockholders who would have been entitled to vote upon the action, if such meeting were
held, shall consent in writing to such corporate action being taken.      Section 8.  Presiding Officer.  The Board of Directors
shall appoint one of its members to be the Chairman to serve at its pleasure. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside over each meeting of the stockholders, or, in the absence of the Chairman, such other person as the Board of Directors
may designate from time to time, or, in the absence of such designee or, if no designation has been made, a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as  
       
   2   

secretary of each meeting of the stockholders, or, in the absence of the Secretary, such other person as the Board of Directors may designate from time to
time, or, in the absence of such designee or, if no designation has been made, the chairman of the meeting may appoint a person to act as the secretary for that meeting until the arrival of the Secretary or the designee of the Board of Directors.
     ARTICLE II      DIRECTORS
     Section 1.  Number and Qualifications.  The management and control of the affairs, business and property of the Corporation
shall be vested in the Board of Directors. The number of directors shall be eleven (11), which number may be increased or decreased from time to time by amendment of these Bylaws. The Directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of the
stockholders, except as otherwise provided for filling vacancies. The directors shall be divided into three classes (A, B, and C) as nearly equal in number as possible. The initial term of office for members of Class A shall expire at the first
annual meeting of stockholders after their election; the initial term of office for members of Class B shall expire at the second annual meeting of stockholders after their election; and the initial term of office for members of Class C shall expire
at the third annual meeting of stockholders after their election. At each annual meeting of stockholders following such initial classification and election, directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms expire shall be elected for a term
of office to expire at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election, and shall continue to hold office until their respective successors are elected and qualify or until his death, resignation or removal. In the event of
any increase or decrease in the number of directors fixed by the Bylaws, all classes of directors shall be increased or decreased as equally as may be possible.      Nominations for election to the Board of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder of any outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote for election of directors.
Nominations other than those made by or on behalf of the existing management shall be made in writing and be delivered or mailed to the President of the Corporation and to the Federal Reserve Bank, in Richmond, Virginia, not less than 14 days nor
more than 50 days prior to any meeting of shareholders called for the election of directors; provided, however, that is less than 21 days notice of the meeting is given to shareholders, such nominations shall be mailed or delivered to the President
of the Corporation and to the Federal Reserve Bank not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the day on which the notice of meeting was mailed. Such notification shall contain the following information to the extent known to
the notifying shareholder:       

(1)  
  The name and address of each proposed nominee,         

(2)  
  The principal occupation of each proposed nominee;         

(3)  
  The total number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation that will be voted for each proposed nominee;           
   3   

(4)  
  The name and residence address of the notifying shareholder; and,         

(5)  
  The number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation owned by the notifying shareholder.        Nominations not made in accordance herewith may, in his/her discretion be disregarded by the Chairman of the meeting, and the vote tellers may disregard
all votes cast for each nominee. No bylaw may unreasonable restrict the nomination of directors by shareholders.      A director may resign at
any time by delivering written notice to the Board of Directors, its Chairman, or the Corporation, which resignation shall be effective when the notice is delivered unless the notice specifies a later effective date.      A director may be removed by shareholders at a meeting called to remove him or her, when notice of the meeting stating that the purpose or one of the
purposes is to remove him or her is provided. If there is a failure to fulfill one of the affirmative requirements for qualification, or for cause, provided, however, that a director may not be removed if the number of votes sufficient to elect him
or her under cumulative voting is voted against his or her removal.      Section 2.  Annual Meeting.  The annual meeting of the Board
of Directors shall be held in each year immediately after and at the same place as the annual meeting of stockholders. No notice of the annual meeting of the Board of Directors need be given. At such meeting the Board of Directors shall elect
Officers of the Corporation.      Section 3.  Regular Meetings.  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such
places and at such times as the Board may from time to time determine by resolution.      Section 4.  Special Meetings.  Special
meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the Chairman, the President or by a majority of the Directors. Notice of each special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be given to each Director at least fourteen days before
the day on which the special meeting is to be held.      Section 5.  Quorum.  At each meeting of the Board of Directors, a majority
of the Directors shall be present in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the acts of a majority of the Directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the acts of the Board of Directors.   
  Section 6.  Place of Meeting.  The Board of Directors may hold its meetings at such places within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia as
shall be specified or fixed in the respective notice or waivers of notice thereof.      Section 7.  Consents.  Any action which may
be taken at a meeting of the Directors, or of the members of the executive committee, if there be such, may be taken without a meeting if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by all of the Directors,
or members of the executive committee, as the case may be, and shall be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation.         
   4   

Section 8 . Powers.       (a)  General Powers.  The Board of Directors shall have all the power and authority granted by law to the Board, including all powers necessary or
appropriate to the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation.      (b)  Specific Powers.  Without limiting the general
powers conferred by the last preceding clause and the powers conferred by the Articles of Incorporation and these Bylaws, it is hereby expressly declared that the Board of Directors shall have the following powers:      (1) To confer upon any Officer or Officers of the Corporation the power to choose, remove or suspend assistant officers, agents or servants.   
  (2) To appoint any person, firm or corporation to accept and hold in trust for the Corporation any property belonging to the Corporation or in which
it is interested, and to authorize any such person, firm or corporation to execute any documents and perform any duties that may be requisite in relation to any such trust.      (3) To appoint a person or persons to vote shares of another corporation held and owned by the Corporation.      (4) To fix the place, time and purpose of meetings of stockholders.      (5) To fix the compensation of Directors for their services.      (6) To create and issue rights, options, or
warrants for the purchase of shares of any class of the stock of the Corporation, upon such terms and conditions and for such consideration, if any, and such purposes as the Board of Directors may approve.      (7) To issue, without the necessity of shareholder approval, rights, options, or warrants for the purchase of shares of the common stock of the
Corporation to the members of the initial Board of Directors of the Corporation and any other initial subscribers of stock pursuant to the Corporation s initial private offering on the basis of one warrant to purchase one share of the common
stock of the Corporation for each share of the common stock of the Corporation which such shareholder purchases pursuant to the initial private offering of shares of the common stock of the Corporation. Such rights, options or warrants shall be
issued upon such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may approve.      Section 9.  Removal of Directors by Stockholders.
 The entire Board of Directors or any individual Director may be removed from office at any time but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of more than two-thirds of the voting stock of the Corporation then outstanding at
a meeting called for that purpose.         
   5   

Section 10.  Vacancies.  Newly-created directorships resulting from an increase by not more
than two in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office, or other cause, shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of
the directors then in office, whether or not a quorum, or by a sole remaining Director. If there are no Directors in office, then all vacancies in the Board of Directors shall be filled by the vote of stockholders at a regular or special meeting
duly called for that purpose. Each director so chosen shall hold office until the expiration of the term of the director, if any, whom he has been chosen to succeed or, if none, until the expiration of the term of the class assigned to the
additional directorship to which he has been elected, or until his earlier death, resignation, or removal. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.      Section 11 . Regulations.  The Board of Directors may adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of its meetings and for the management
of the business and affairs of the Corporation as it may deem proper and not inconsistent with the law, the Articles of Incorporation, and these Bylaws.      Section 12.  Compensation.  Directors may receive such compensation for their services, and allowances for expenses, as the Board of Directors may fix from time to time.      Section 13.  Executive Committee.  The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, designate by resolution an Executive Committee consisting of
three (3) or more Directors. Each member of the Executive Committee shall hold office until the annual meeting of the Board of Directors held next after his election or other manner of appointment, and until his successor shall have been
elected and shall qualify, or until he shall cease to be a Director, or his death, resignation or removal. The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise all of the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs
of the Corporation, except as may be provided in the resolution designating the Executive Committee, and provided that the Executive Committee shall not have the power to amend the Articles of Incorporation, to make, alter or repeal these Bylaws, to
adopt an agreement of merger or consolidation, to recommend to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all, or substantially all, of the Corporation s property and assets, or to recommend to the stockholders a dissolution of the
Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution. The designation of an Executive Committee, the delegation of authority to it, and the exercise of such delegated authority by the Executive Committee, shall not relieve the Board of Directors or any
member thereof from the responsibility imposed on it or him by law. The Board of Directors may remove any member of the Executive Committee and may, by resolution, dissolve the Executive Committee. The Board of Directors shall fill any vacancies on
the Executive Committee. The rules contained herein which govern the Board of Directors as to regulations, compensation, meetings, quorum, and consent shall apply to the Executive Committee as well.         
   6   

ARTICLE III      OFFICERS      Section 1 . Officers.  The Corporation shall have a Chief Executive Officer, a
President, a Secretary and a Treasurer who shall be elected by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may elect as additional officers, one or more Vice Presidents, and one or more assistant officers. Any two or more offices may be held by
the same person.      Section 2.  Term.  The Chief Executive Officer, President, Secretary and Treasurer shall each serve for a term
of one year and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified, unless removed from office by the Board of Directors during their respective tenures. The term of office of any other Officer shall be as specified by the Board of
Directors.      Section 3.  Chief Executive Officer . The Chief Executive Officer shall supervise the carrying out of the policies
adopted or approved by the Board of Directors. He shall have general executive powers, as well as the specific powers assigned to him by the Board of Directors.      Section 4.  President.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the President shall have the usual duties of an executive officer with general supervision over and direction of the affairs of
the Corporation. In the exercise of these duties and subject to the limitations of the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, these Bylaws, and the actions of the Board of Directors, he may appoint, suspend, and discharge employees and agents, may in
the name of the Corporation execute all contracts and other documents requiring the signature of the Corporation, and shall be a member of all committees. He shall also do and perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by
the Board of Directors.      Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the President shall have full power and authority on behalf
of the Corporation to attend and to act and to vote at any meeting of the stockholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may hold stock, and, at any such meeting, shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the
ownership of such stock and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have possessed and exercised.      Section 5.  Secretary.
 Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the Board of Directors, stockholders and all committees, in books provided for that purpose, and shall attend to the giving and
serving of all notices for the Corporation. He shall have charge of the corporate seal, the certificate books, transfer books and stock ledgers, and such other books and papers as the Board of Directors may direct. He shall have the responsibility
for authenticating records of the corporation. He shall perform all other duties ordinarily incident to the office of Secretary and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
        
   7   

Section 6 . Treasurer.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer
shall have charge of all the funds and securities of the Corporation which may come into his hands. When necessary or proper, unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors, he shall endorse for collection on behalf of the Corporation checks,
notes and other obligations, and shall deposit the same to the credit of the Corporation in such banks or depositories as the Board of Directors may designate and shall sign all receipts and vouchers for payments made to the Corporation. He shall
sign all checks made by the Corporation, except when the Board of Directors shall otherwise direct. He shall enter regularly, in books of the Corporation to be kept by him for the purpose, full and accurate account of all monies received and paid by
him on account of the Corporation. Whenever required by the Board of Directors, he shall render a statement of the financial condition of the Corporation. He shall at all reasonable times exhibit his books and accounts to any Director of the
Corporation, upon application at the office of the Corporation during business hours. He shall have such other powers and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Board of Directors. He shall give such bond,
if any, for the faithful performance of his duties as shall be required by the Board of Directors and any such bond shall remain in the custody of the President.      Section 6.  Vice Presidents and Assistant Officers.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, each Vice President and each Assistant Officer shall have the powers and perform the duties of his
respective superior officer. Vice Presidents and Assistant Officers shall have such rank as shall be designated by the Board of Directors and each, in the order of rank, shall act for such superior officer in his absence or upon his disability or
when so directed by such superior officer or by the Board of Directors. The President shall be the superior officer of the Vice Presidents. The Treasurer and Secretary shall be the superior officers of the Assistant Treasurers and Assistant
Secretaries, respectively.      Section 7.  Delegation of Office.  The Board of Directors may delegate the powers or duties of any
Officer of the Corporation to any other Officer or to any Director from time to time.      Section  8. Vacancies.  The Board of
Directors shall have the power to fill any vacancies in any office occurring from whatever reason.      ARTICLE V      CONTRACTS, LOANS, CHECKS AND DEPOSITS      Section 1 . Contracts.  The Board of Directors may authorize any Officer or Officers, agent or agents to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, and such
authority may be general or confined to specific instances.      Section 2.  Loans.  No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the
Corporation and no evidences of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.         
   8   

Section 3.  Checks, Drafts, Etc.  All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money,
notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation, shall be signed by such Officer or Officers, agent or agents of the Corporation and in such manner as shall from time to time be determined in these Bylaws or by
resolution of the Board of Directors.      Section 4.  Deposits.  All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be
deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board of Directors may select.      ARTICLE VI      CAPITAL STOCK      Section 1 . Certificates.  The certificates for shares of the Corporation shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board of Directors. The shares of the Corporation shall be transferable only on the
books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his attorney, upon surrender for cancellation of the certificate or certificates, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto duly executed, and with
such proof of authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents reasonably may require. The certificates shall be signed by the President or a Vice President, and the Secretary or the Treasurer, and shall bear the seal of the
Corporation, which seal may be facsimile, engraved, or printed.      Section 2.  Determination of Stockholders of Record and Closing
Transfer Books.  The Board of Directors may fix a time, not more than seventy days prior to the date of any meeting of stockholders, or the date fixed for the payment of any dividend or distribution, or the date for the allotment of rights, or
the date when any change or conversion or exchange of shares will be made or go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at such meeting, or to receive payment of such dividend, or to
receive such allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the Corporation after any record date fixed as aforesaid. The Board of Directors may close the books of the
Corporation against transfers of shares during the whole or any part of such period, and in such case written or printed notice thereof shall be given to each stockholder of record at the address appearing on the records of the Corporation or
supplied by him to the Corporation for the purpose of notice. While the stock transfer books of the Corporation are closed, no transfer of shares shall be made thereon. Unless a record date is fixed by the Board of Directors for the determination of
stockholders entitled to receive notice of, or vote at, a stockholders  meeting, transferees of shares which are transferred on the books of the Corporation within ten days next preceding the date of such meeting shall not be entitled to notice
of or to vote at such meeting. The Corporation may treat the registered owner of each share of stock as the person exclusively entitled to vote, to receive notifications and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers of the owner thereof.
     Section 3.  Lost Share Certificates.  Unless waived in whole or in part by the Board of Directors from time to time, any person
requesting the issuance of a new certificate in lieu of an  
       
   9   

alleged lost, destroyed, mislaid or wrongfully taken certificate, shall (i) make an affidavit or affirmation of the facts and circumstances surrounding
the same; (ii) advertise such facts to the extent and in the manner the Board of Directors may require; and (iii) give to the Corporation his bond of indemnity with an acceptable surety. Thereupon a new share certificate shall be issued in
lieu of the alleged lost, destroyed, mislaid or wrongfully taken certificate, provided that the request therefor has been made before the Corporation has notice that such shares have been acquired by a bona fide purchaser.      Section 4.  Regulations, Transfer Agent, and Registrars.  The Board of Directors may make such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient
concerning the issuance and transfer of certificates of shares of the stock of the Corporation and may appoint transfer agents or registrars, or both, and may require all certificates of stock to bear the signature of either or both. Nothing herein
shall be construed to prohibit the Corporation from acting as its own transfer agent.      ARTICLE VII      NOTICES      Section 1 . Contents of
Notice.  Whenever any notice of a meeting is required to be given pursuant to these Bylaws or otherwise, the notice shall specify the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting of stockholders or where otherwise
required by law, the general nature of the business to be transacted at such meeting.      Section 2.  Written Notice.  Whenever the
provisions of a statute or any of these Bylaws require or permit notice to be given to any Director, Officer, or stockholder, it shall not be construed to require personal notice, but any such notice may be given in writing by depositing the same in
a post office or letter box in a postpaid, sealed wrapper, or by delivering the same to a telegraph company for transmission by wire, the cost thereof being prepaid, in either case addressed to such Director, Officer, or stockholder at his address
as the same appears on the books of the Corporation, and the time when the same shall be so mailed or delivered to the telegraph company shall be deemed to be the time of the giving of such notice.      Section 3.  Waivers.  Any stockholder, Officer or Director may waive in writing or by telegraph any notice required or permitted to be given
under any provisions of any statute or of these Bylaws, either before, at, or after the meeting or other event of which notice is so provided. All stockholders or Directors present at any meeting shall be deemed to have waived any and all notice
thereof.         
   10   

ARTICLE VIII      INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS      AND OTHER PERSONS      Section 1.  Indemnification.       (a)
To the full extent that the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, as it existed on the date of incorporation of the Corporation or may thereafter be amended, permits the limitation or elimination of the liability of directors or officers, a director or
officer of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages.      (b) To the full extent
permitted and in the manner prescribed by the Virginia Stock Corporation Act and any other applicable law, the Corporation shall indemnify a director or officer of the Corporation who is or was a party to any proceeding by reason of the fact that he
is or was such a director or officer or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or
other enterprise. The Board of Directors is hereby empowered, by majority vote of a quorum of disinterested directors, to contract in advance to indemnify any director or officer.      (c) The Board of Directors is hereby empowered, by majority vote of a quorum of disinterested directors, to cause the Corporation to indemnify or
contract in advance to indemnify any person not specified in subsection (b) of this Article who was or is a party to any proceeding, by reason of the fact that he is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the
request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, to the same extent as if such person were specified
as one to whom indemnification is granted in subsection (b).      (d) The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to indemnify it
against the whole or any portion of the liability assumed by it in accordance with this Article and may also procure insurance, in such amounts as the Board of Directors may determine, on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer,
employee, or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or
other enterprise, against any liability asserted against or incurred by such person in any such capacity or arising from his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the
provisions of this Article.      (e) In the event there has been a change in the composition of a majority of the Board of Directors after the
date of the alleged act or omission with respect to which indemnification is claimed, any determination as to indemnification and advancement of expenses with respect to any claim for indemnification made pursuant to subsection (a) of this
Article shall be made by special legal counsel agreed upon by the Board of Directors and the  
       
   11   

proposed indemnitee. If the Board of Directors and the proposed indemnitee are unable to agree upon such special legal counsel, the Board of Directors and
the proposed indemnitee shall each select a nominee, and the nominees shall select such special legal counsel.      (f) The provisions of this
Article shall be applicable to all actions, claims, suits or proceedings commenced after the date hereof, whether arising from any action taken or failure to act before or after such date. No amendment, modification or repeal of this Article shall
diminish the rights provided hereby or diminish the right to indemnification with respect to any claim, issue or matter in any then pending or subsequent proceeding that is based in any material respect on any alleged action or failure to act prior
to such amendment, modification or repeal.      (g) Reference herein to directors, officers, employees or agents shall include former
directors, officers, employees or agents and their respective heirs, executors and administrators.      ARTICLE IX      SEAL      Section 1.  Seal.  The seal
of the Corporation shall be a flat faced circular die (of which there may be any number of counterparts) with the word  SEAL  and the name of the Corporation engraved thereon and shall be impressed adjacent hereto.      ARTICLE X      FISCAL YEAR      Section 1 . Fiscal Year.  The Board of Directors shall have the power by resolution to fix the first fiscal year of the Corporation and if the
Board of Directors does not fix the fiscal year then the fiscal year shall end on December 31 of each year. The Board of Directors shall have the right to amend the Bylaws and change the fiscal year.      ARTICLE XI      AMENDMENTS      Section 1 . Amendments.  These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed or new bylaws may be adopted by the Board of Directors. The power to
adopt, amend or repeal bylaws conferred upon the Board of Directors shall not divest or limit the power of the stockholders to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws.         
   12   

ARTICLE XII      INTERPRETATION OF BYLAWS      Section 1 . Interpretation.  All words, terms and provisions of these
Bylaws shall be interpreted and defined by and in accordance with the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, Virginia Code  13.1-601  et seq ., as amended, and as amended from time to time hereafter.         
   13   

The foregoing Bylaws of Millennium Bankshares Corporation were duly adopted by the Board of Directors by
motion duly made and seconded and adopted effective December 9, 1998.       

/s/ Bronson Ford Byrd   

/s/ Arthur J. Novick    
 
  Bronson Ford Byrd, Director  

Arthur J. Novick, Director   

/s/ Thomas J. Chmelik   

/s/ Gregory L. Oxley    
 
  Thomas J. Chmelik, Director  

Gregory L. Oxley, Director   

/s/ L. James D Agostino   

/s/ Rolando J. Santos    
 
  L. James D Agostino, Director  

Rolando J. Santos, M.D. , Director   

/s/ Andrew E. Kauders   

/s/ Robert T. Smoot    
 
  Andrew E. Kauders, Director  

Robert T. Smoot, Director   

/s/ Stewart R. Little   

/s/ Derek A. Tidman    
 
  Stewart R. Little, Director  

Derek A. Tidman, Director   

/s/ Carroll C. Markley   

/s/ Ronald W. Torrence    
 
  Carroll C. Markley, Director  

Ronald W. Torrence, Director   

/s/ David B. Morey   

David B. Morey, Director  

14   

</EX-3.2>

<EX-10.1>
 3
 dex101.htm
 EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF DECEMBER 20, 2004

Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2004 

Exhibit 10.1        EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT OF CARROLL C. MARKLEY       THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (this
 Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the date of the last signature affixed hereto between MILLENNIUM BANK, N.A., a national banking association and its successors and assigns (the  Bank ) and MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES
CORPORATION and its successors and assigns (referred to herein as  Millennium Bankshares  or the  Holding Company ) (the Bank, the Holding Company, and the Successor Employer, as such term is used herein, are collectively
referred to herein as the  Employer ), and CARROLL C. MARKLEY ( Executive ). Whenever the term  Employer  is used herein, that term shall be deemed synonymous with the terms  Bank,   Holding Company 
or  Boards,  whenever the context so requires.       1.  EMPLOYMENT DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES        1.1  Positions and Titles . The Employer hereby agrees to employ the Executive in the positions of sole Chairman, sole President, and sole Chief
Executive Officer of the Holding Company and sole Chairman and sole Chief Executive Officer of the Bank, and the Executive hereby accepts such positions and agrees to serve the Employer in such capacities during the employment period set forth in
Section 2 below, subject to earlier termination as provided hereunder (the  Employment Period ). The Executive shall serve as Chairman and voting member of the Executive Committees of the Boards of Directors of the Bank and of the
Holding Company and such other committees as the Boards may designate, subject to the terms hereof. The Executive shall perform such job duties and responsibilities as determined in discussion with the Boards of Directors of the Bank and of the
Holding Company ( Boards ) and in accordance with the Employer s Bylaws. Executive shall be Chief Executive Officer of the Bank and the President of the Holding Company until a suitable replacement has been designated by Employer and
approved by the Office of the Controller of the Currency of the United States ( O.C.C. ) and the Federal Reserve Bank. At such time as a suitable replacement has been designated, and without any loss or change in Executive s
compensation and benefits, Executive shall retain the titles, positions and duties of Chairman of the Bank and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Holding Company, and, at the Executive s discretion, the title Chief Executive Officer of
the Bank, and shall perform such services and duties as are customarily performed and exercised by a person holding any such office.      1.2
 Reporting Relationship . The Executive shall report to the Boards of Directors of the Bank and of the Holding Company (the  Executive s Manager ). The Executive shall be subject to, and shall act in accordance with, all
reasonable legal instructions and directions of the Executive s Manager which are commensurate with duties and responsibilities of similar level Executives of institutions comparable to the Employer, as well as any other duties as may from time
to time be reasonably assigned by the Employer that are commensurate with Executive s position. Regarding the relationships and duties of the parties to this Agreement, the Executive shall not be required by Employer, as a part of his duties,
to perform or to participate in any activity that constitutes a violation of any local, state, or federal law, rule, ordinance, or regulation.      1.3  Employer Policies and Procedures . The Executive agrees to abide by all applicable policies and procedures of the Employer that are otherwise consistent with the terms of this Agreement.      1.4  Full Attention . During the Employment Period, excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which Executive is entitled, Executive shall
devote Executive s full business time, energy and attention to the performance of Executive s duties and responsibilities hereunder. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall at all times operate in accordance with the Bank s
Ethics Policy and may not, without the prior written consent of the Boards of Directors of the Bank and the Holding Company, operate, participate in the management, operations or control of, or act as an employee, officer, consultant, agent or
representative of, any other entity or business that is not related to the Bank and the  

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  C ARROLL  C. M ARKLEY    
      
  P AGE  1                   

Holding Company, provided that it shall not be a violation of the foregoing for the Executive: (i) to act or serve as a director on the boards of
directors of any type of non-profit, civil, cultural, philanthropic or professional organization; (ii) to manage Executive s own personal passive investments; or (c) to serve, with the written consent of the Executive s Manager,
on the board of directors of for-profit entities, so long as such activities do not violate the Employer s policy on external directorship or materially interfere with the performance of Executive s duties and responsibilities to the
Employer as provided hereunder.       2. TERM OF EMPLOYMENT.       2.1  Effective Date . The Effective Date of this Agreement shall be the date as set forth in Addendum A.      2.2.  Term . The term of this Agreement shall at all times be two (2) years, which means that at the end of every day, the term of this Agreement shall be extended for one day, unless and until the Agreement is terminated by
either party in accordance with Section 4 of this Agreement.       3. COMPENSATION       3.1  Base Salary . For all services that the Executive may render to Employer during the term hereof, Employer shall pay to Executive, and Executive
shall accept from the Employer, a monthly base salary in the amount set forth on Addendum A attached hereto, payable on the Employer s standard pay schedule, subject to such deductions as may be required by law. Executive s base salary may
not be decreased at any time during this Agreement without the express written consent of the Executive. The base salary may be increased at the sole discretion of the Boards but nothing herein shall be deemed to require any such increase.
     3.2  Incentive Compensation/Bonus . Executive may be eligible to receive a bonus based upon satisfactory achievement of personal
performance objectives and business performance objectives as set forth in Addendum A hereto.      3.3  Stock Options . In addition to the
options granted in Section 5 of the Agreement dated February 8, 2001, which shall continue in accordance with the terms of that Agreement, Executive will be eligible to receive additional stock options and/or restricted stock as may be
awarded by the Board in its sole discretion.      3.4.  Expenses . Upon Executive s presentation to Employer of expense reports
acceptable to Employer and which are in sufficient detailed form to comply with standards of deduction of business expenses established from time to time by the Internal Revenue Service, Employer will reimburse Executive for such expenses hereunder,
including but not limited to such expenses set forth in Addendum A.      3.5  Benefits . Executive shall receive: health, hospitalization,
dental, and prescription insurance policy covering the Executive at no cost to the Executive other than such medical deductible as may be applicable to all other Executives of the Employer, and, if the Executive desires, covering the dependents and
spouse of the Executive, if any, at no cost to the Employer; Flexible Spending Account; term life insurance and paid time-off benefits as are provided to similarly situated Executives of the Employer; and the opportunity to participate in any
standard Executive benefit as may be in effect during the term of this Agreement. During the Employment Period on and after the Effective Date (except as noted in this paragraph), Employer shall furnish to Executive an automobile of his choice,
which may be leased by Executive or the Employer.         

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  C ARROLL  C. M ARKLEY    
      
  P AGE  2                   

4. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT       Executive s employment with the Employer may be terminated, prior to the expiration of any term of this Employment Agreement, in accordance with any of the following provisions:      4.1  Resignation of Executive . The Executive may terminate Executive s employment by giving the Employer sixty (60) days advance
notification in writing, unless waived by two-thirds majority vote of the Boards, inclusive of the Executive.      4.2  Termination By The
Employer For Cause . The Employer, at any time and without notice (except as required below), may terminate the Executive for  Cause.  Termination by the Employer of the Executive for  Cause  shall include but not be limited
to termination based on any of the following grounds: (a) fraud, misappropriation, embezzlement or acts of similar dishonesty; (b) conviction of a crime (other than a minor traffic offense); (c) illegal use of drugs or excessive use
of alcohol in the workplace; (d) intentional and willful misconduct that may subject the Employer to criminal or civil liability; or (e) breach of the Executive s duty of loyalty to the Employer or diversion or usurpation of corporate
opportunities properly belonging to the Employer; and (f) willful disregard of material Employer policies and procedures. Executive shall not be terminated for cause under subsection (f) unless the Employer first has provided Executive
with written notice that the Employer considers the Executive to be in violation of his obligations under one or more of the foregoing subsections and Executive fails, within sixty (60) days of such notice, to cure the conduct that has given
rise to the notice.      Discharge for  Cause  will require a two-thirds majority vote of the Boards, inclusive of Executive.
Termination of Executive s employment for Cause shall include termination as an employee, officer and director of Employer.      In the
event of a termination by the Employer for Cause, Executive shall be entitled to receive only that base salary earned on or before the Executive s last day of active service and other post-employment benefits required by law or under Employer
policy. Executive shall not be entitled to receive any portion of Executive s target bonus for the period in which the termination occurs but shall receive any accrued bonus for any performance period completed prior to the date of termination.
     4.3  Termination By The Bank Without Cause . The Employer may terminate Executive s employment without cause by a two-thirds
majority vote of the Boards, including Executive, at any time during the term of this Agreement, by giving the Executive thirty (30) days  written notice of such termination, during which notice period Executive will continue to receive
normal compensation and benefits to which Executive would normally be entitled under the terms of this Agreement. During the notice period, Executive must fulfill all of Executive s duties and responsibilities and use Executive s best
efforts to train and support Executive s replacement, if any. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank, at its option, may instruct Executive during such period not to undertake any active duties on behalf of the Bank.      If Executive is terminated under this section, within thirty (30) days following the conclusion of the notice period and receipt of the signed
separation agreement described below, the Bank shall provide Executive: (a) a lump sum payment consisting of Executive s Base Salary for 24 months; (b) a lump sum payment consisting of Executive s bonus target for the year in
which the termination without cause occurs; and (c) payment by the Bank of Executive s COBRA coverage for 18 months, provided Executive is covered under the Bank s health plan and timely elects continued coverage under COBRA.
     Executive expressly agrees and acknowledges that all payments and benefits referenced herein which may be paid to Executive as a result of
a Termination Without Cause are conditioned upon and  

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  C ARROLL  C. M ARKLEY    
      
  P AGE  3                   

subject to the Executive executing a valid separation agreement and general release, which includes a release of all claims the Executive may have against
the Bank, and all of its respective subsidiaries, affiliates, directors, officers, employees, shareholders and agents (other than rights of indemnification, rights to directors and officers insurance, and any rights to accrued benefits under the
employee benefit plans), a cooperation clause, a non-disparagement clause, and an affirmation of post-employment restrictions previously agreed to by Executive.      4.4  Termination By Death, Complete Disability, or Bank Ceasing Operations . The Executive s employment and rights to compensation under this Employment Agreement shall terminate if the Bank ceases
operations or if the Executive is unable to perform the duties of Executive s position due to Executive s death or disability (as defined below). In the event of termination due to death or disability, the Executive s heirs,
beneficiaries, successors, or assigns shall be entitled only to receive any compensation fully earned prior to the date of the Executive s death or incapacitation due to disability and shall not be entitled to any other compensation or
benefits, except: (a) to the extent specifically provided in this Employment Agreement; (b) to the extent required by law; or (c) to the extent that such benefit plans or policies under which Executive is covered provide a benefit to
the Executive s heirs, beneficiaries, successors, or assigns. For purposes of this Agreement,  disability  shall be defined as the Executive s inability to perform the essential functions of Executive s position, with or
without reasonable accommodations, as a result of the Executive s physical or mental impairment or illness, for a period in excess of four months in any twelve month period.       5. CONFIDENTIALITY AND NONDISCLOSURE       5.1  Non-Disclosure of Confidential Information .
Executive recognizes that Executive s position with Employer is one of the highest trust and confidence and that Executive will have access to and contact with the trade secrets and confidential and proprietary business information of Employer.
Executive agrees that Executive shall not, while employed by Employer or thereafter, directly or indirectly, use for his own benefit or for the benefit of another, or disclose to another any trade secret or Confidential Information (as defined
below) of the Employer, except such use or disclosure is in the discharge of Executive s duties and obligations on behalf of the Employer.      5.2  Definition of  Confidential Information  . For purposes of this Agreement,  Confidential Information  shall include proprietary or sensitive information, materials, knowledge, data or other information of the
Employer not generally known or available to the public relating to (a) the services, products, customer lists, business plans, marketing plans, pricing strategies, or similar confidential information of the Employer or (b) the business of
any Employer customer, including without limitation, knowledge of the customer s current financial status, loans, or financial needs.      5.3  Return of Materials and Equipment . Executive further agrees that all memoranda, notes, records, drawings, or other documents made or compiled by Executive or made available to Executive while employed by Employer concerning any
Employer activity shall be the property of Employer and shall be delivered to Employer upon termination of Executive s employment or at any other time upon request. Executive also agrees to return any and all equipment belonging to the Employer
on or before Executive s last day of employment with Employer.      5.4  No Prior Restrictions . The Executive hereby represents and
warrants to the Employer that the execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement does not violate any provision of any agreement or restrictive covenant which the Executive has with any former employer (a  Former Employer ). The
Executive further acknowledges that to the extent the Executive has an obligation to the Former Employer not to disclose certain confidential information, Executive intends to honor such obligation and the Employer hereby agrees not to knowingly
request the Executive to disclose such confidential information.         

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  C ARROLL  C. M ARKLEY    
      
  P AGE  4                   

6. POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS       6.1  Non-Interference With Customers . Executive further agrees that, during the Employment Period and for a period of twelve months thereafter, Executive shall not undertake to interfere with the Employer s
relationship with any Bank customer. This means, among other things, that Executive shall refrain: (i) from making disparaging comments about the Bank or its management or employees to any customer; (ii) from attempting to persuade any
customer to cease doing business with the Bank; or (iii) from soliciting any customer for the purpose of providing services competitive with the services provided by the Bank; or (iv) from assisting any person or entity in doing any of the
foregoing.      6.2  Non-Solicitation and Non-Hiring of Employees . Executive agrees that, during the Employment Period and for a period
of one (1) year following the termination of Executive s employment for any reason, the Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, on Executive s own behalf or the behalf of another person or entity: (i) induce or attempt to
induce any person employed by the Bank to leave their employment with the Bank; (ii) hire or employ, or attempt to hire or employ, any person employed by the Bank; or (iii) assist any other person or entity in the hiring of any person
employed by the Bank. These restrictions shall apply only where the services or products provided by the hiring entity are competitive with the services or products provided by the Bank.      6.3  Non-Competition . Executive agrees that for one (1) year following the Employment Period he will not engage (either individually or as an
Executive or representative of any other person or entity) in banking activities (other than personal banking), in which chartered national or state banks may at that time legally be engaged, within a ten (10) mile radius of the Bank s
headquarters.      6.4  Reasonableness . Executive understands and acknowledges that the restrictions contained herein are reasonable in
that they do not prohibit Executive from seeking employment with another financial institution or entity (except as set forth in Section 4.1 above), but merely restrict Executive s ability, during the Employment Period and for a period of
12 months thereafter, to interfere with or hinder the Bank s relationships with its employees and customers.      6.5  Remedies . In
the event that Executive breaches any of the covenants contained herein in paragraphs 6.1 through 6.4, the Employer shall be entitled to its remedies at law and in equity, including but not limited to compensatory and punitive damages. The
prevailing party in the event of such action shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorney s fees and costs. The parties also recognize that any breach of the covenants contained herein may result in irreparable damage and injury to Employer
which will not be adequately compensable in monetary damages, and that in addition to any remedy that Employer may have at law, the Employer may obtain such preliminary or permanent injunction or decree as may be necessary to protect Employer
against, or on account of, any breach of the provisions contained herein.       7. CHANGE IN CONTROL       In the event Executive s employment is terminated within six (6) months prior or twelve (12) months following a Change in Control, the
provisions of this section shall apply.      7.1  Change in Control Defined : A  Change in Control  is deemed to have taken
place if any of the following events occurs: (a) The shareholders of Millennium Bankshares approve a transaction for the merger, consolidation, or other combination of Millennium Bankshares with another corporation or  

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  C ARROLL  C. M ARKLEY    
      
  P AGE  5                   

business entity where the Holding Company is not the Surviving Entity, as defined below; (b) The shareholders of Millennium Bankshares approve the sale
of all or substantially all the assets of Millennium Bankshares where the Holding Company is not the Surviving Entity, as defined below; or (c) A Person which does not presently hold at least 10% of the shares of the Company becomes, directly
or indirectly, the beneficial owner of securities representing 50% or more of the voting power or the Holding Company s then outstanding securities.  Person  is defined as any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of
Section 13(d) (3) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934).      7.2   Surviving Entity  Defined . Millennium
Bankshares shall not be considered the  Surviving Entity  of a transaction described in subparagraphs (a) and (b) if the individuals who constitute the Board of Directors on the date one day prior to the closing date of the
transaction cease to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Surviving Entity at any time within the three months following the transaction. The surviving entity, if not Millennium Bankshares, shall hereinafter be known as the
 Successor Employer .      7.3  Payout Events.  The Executive, without waiving any contractual rights afforded elsewhere in this
Agreement, shall be entitled to the full and complete rights afforded by this section if, during the period that begins six (6) months prior to the Closing Date of a Change in Control event and that ends twelve (12) months following the
Closing Date of a Change in Control event, the Executive: (a) is involuntarily terminated by the Employer or the Successor Employer, unless such termination is for Cause, as such term is defined in this Employment Agreement; or (b) resigns
from employment with the Employer or the Successor Employer following a reduction in the Executive s base salary or bonus opportunity; or (c) is required by the Employer or the Successor Employer to relocate the Executive s place of
employment to a location more than 25 miles from the Executive s current place of employment; or (d) the Successor Employer reassigns Executive to a different position or title, changes or eliminates any of the positions or titles
guaranteed to Executive under Section 1.1, or appoints or assigns another person to share any of the positions or titles guaranteed to Executive under Section 1.1 of this Agreement.  Closing Date  shall mean the date on which
such transaction or stock purchase is signed and finalized.      7.4  Benefits Under This Section . If any of the Payout Events described
above occurs, Executive shall be entitled to receive, in addition to any other post-employment benefits to which Executive may be entitled under Employer policy, the following compensation and benefits, provided the Executive has executed the
separation agreement and general release described in Section 4.2 above: (a) a lump sum severance payment in the amount of base salary and target bonus for the greater of (i) the remainder of the applicable Term under this Employment
Agreement or (ii) twenty-four (24) months; and (b) payment by the Employer of Executive s COBRA coverage for the remainder of the Term of the Agreement or 18 months, whichever is less, provided Executive is covered under the
Employer s health plan and timely elects continued coverage under COBRA. The compensation to be paid under this section shall offset any compensation owed the Executive for the same period under this Agreement and is not intended to provide
double compensation to the Executive for any period of time. To the extent permitted under the terms of the Employer s stock option plan and/or stock option agreements with Executive, Executive also shall fully vest in any options or restricted
stock in the event of a change in control.      7.5  Excess Payments . If either the Employer or the Executive receives notice from an
independent tax counsel or certified public accounting firm acting on behalf of the Employer (the  Tax Advisor ), that the payment by the Employer to the Executive under this Agreement or otherwise would be considered to be an  excess
parachute payment  within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor statute then in effect (the  Code ), the aggregate payments by the Employer pursuant to this Agreement shall
be reduced to the highest amount that may be paid to the Executive by the Employer under this Agreement without having any portion of any amount payable to the Executive by the Employer or a related entity under this Agreement or otherwise treated
as  

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  C ARROLL  C. M ARKLEY    
      
  P AGE  6                   

such an  excess parachute payment , and, if permitted by applicable law and without adverse tax consequence, such reduction shall be made to the
last payment due hereunder. Any payments made by the Employer to the Executive under this Agreement which are later confirmed by the Tax Advisor to be  excess parachute payments  shall be considered by all parties to have been a loan by
the Employer to the Executive, which loan shall be repaid by the Executive upon demand together with interest calculated at the lowest interest rate authorized for such loans under the Code without a requirement that further interest be imputed.
      8. GENERAL PROVISIONS.       8.1
 Notices . All notices and other communications required or permitted by this Agreement to be delivered by the Employer or Executive to the other party shall be delivered in writing, either personally or by registered, certified or express
mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, respectively, to the headquarters of the Employer, or to the address of record of the Executive on file at the Employer.      8.2  Amendments: Entire Agreement . This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a writing executed by all of the parties hereto. With the exception of Executive s right to receive compensation
(including, but not limited to performance bonuses), benefits, and/or stock options pursuant to Section 3.3 above, as well as any vested benefits pursuant to any plans of the Employer in which Executive participated or had an interest prior to
this Agreement that are covered by or governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, this Agreement, including any addendums hereto, constitutes the entire agreement between Executive and the Employer relating in any way to the employment
of Executive by the Employer, and supersedes all prior discussions, understandings and agreements between them with respect thereto.      8.3
 Successors and Assigns . This Agreement is personal to Executive and shall not be assignable by Executive. The Employer will assign its rights hereunder to (a) any corporation resulting from any merger, consolidation or other
reorganization to which the Employer is a party or (b) any corporation, partnership, association or other person to which the Employer may transfer all or substantially all of the assets and business of the Employer existing at such time or
(c) the parent of Bank. All of the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.      8.4  Severability: Provisions Subject to Applicable Law . All provisions of this Agreement shall be applicable only to the extent that they do not
violate any applicable law, and are intended to be limited to the extent necessary so that they will not render this Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable under any applicable law. If any provision of this Agreement or any application thereof
shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of other provisions of this Agreement or of any other application of such provision shall in no way be affected thereby.      8.5  Waiver of Rights . No waiver by the Employer or Executive of a right or remedy hereunder shall be deemed to be a waiver of any other right or
remedy or of any subsequent right or remedy of the same kind.      8.6  Definitions, Headings, and Number . A term defined in any part of
this Employment Agreement shall have the defined meaning wherever such term is used herein. The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any manner the meaning or interpretation of this Employment
Agreement.         

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  C ARROLL  C. M ARKLEY    
      
  P AGE  7                   

8.7  Governing Law . This Agreement and the parties  performance hereunder shall be governed by
and interpreted under the laws of the Commonwealth Of Virginia. Executive agrees to submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the Commonwealth Of Virginia, and that venue for any action arising out of this Agreement or the parties 
performance hereunder shall be either in the Circuit Court for the County of Fairfax, Virginia or in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Alexandria Division, subject to the court s subject matter jurisdiction
over such action.      8.8.  Attorneys  Fees . In the event of a dispute arising out of the interpretation or enforcement of this
Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys  fees and costs.      8.9  Construction and
Interpretation . This Agreement has been discussed and negotiated by, all parties hereto and their counsel and shall be given a fair and reasonable interpretation in accordance with the terms hereof, without consideration or weight being given to
its having been drafted by any party hereto or its counsel.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Millennium Bank, N.A. and Millennium Bankshares
Corporation and Executive have executed and delivered this Agreement as of the date written below.       

EXECUTIVE  

MILLENNIUM BANK, N.A.  

A National Banking Association  

/s/ Carroll C. Markley   

12/20/04   

By:  
     
    /s/ J. Anthony Fulkerson   

12/20/04    
 
  Carroll C. Markley  

Date  

J. Anthony Fulkerson  

Date   

Title:  
     
  Chairman, Compensation Committee  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION  

By:  
     
    /s/ William P. Haggerty   

12/20/04    

William P. Haggerty  

Date   

Title:  
     
  Chairman, Compensation Committee  

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  C ARROLL  C. M ARKLEY    
      
  P AGE  8                   

ADDENDUM A TO        EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT OF CARROLL C. MARKLEY       This Addendum A ( Addendum ) to the Employment
Agreement of Carroll C. Markley ( Agreement ) is made of the date of the last signature hereto and supersedes and replaces any prior Addendum A to the Agreement.       

A.  
  Executive s title for purposes of Section 1.1 of the Agreement shall be Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of the Holding Company and Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of the Bank.         

B.  
  Executive s Manager for purposes of Section 1.2 of the Agreement shall be the Boards of Directors of the Bank and of the Holding Company.         

F.  
  Pursuant to Section 3.2 of the Agreement, Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Millennium Bank Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Incentive Comp
Plan ). Executive s target bonus eligibility under the Incentive Comp Plan shall be  25%  of Executive s Base Salary (the  Target Bonus ) subject to the terms of the Plan, which shall be provided to Executive at a later
date.         

G.  
  The reference to  twenty-four (24) months  in Section 7.4(a)(ii) of the Agreement shall be changed to  forty-eight (48) months .

H.  
  In addition to other expenses that shall be reimbursed pursuant to Section 3.4 of the Agreement, Bank agrees that it shall further be responsible for the payment of
Executive s Westwood country club membership dues, as well as any related entertainment expenses as a result of entertaining clients, incurred by Executive during the term of this Agreement         

EXECUTIVE  

MILLENNIUM BANK, N.A.  

A National Banking Association  

/s/ Carroll C. Markley   

12/20/04   

By:  
     
    /s/ J. Anthony Fulkerson   

12/20/04    
 
  Carroll C. Markley  

Date  

J. Anthony Fulkerson  

Date   

Title:  
     
  Chairman, Compensation Committee  

MILLENNIUM BANKSHARES CORPORATION  

By:  
     
    /s/ William P. Haggerty   

12/20/04    

William P. Haggerty  

Date   

Title:  
     
  Chairman, Compensation Committee  

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  C ARROLL  C. M ARKLEY    
      
  P AGE  9                   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.5>
 4
 dex105.htm
 EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF MAY 27, 2004

Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2004 

Exhibit 10.5        EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT OF ANITA L. SHULL       THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (this
 Agreement ) is made and entered into as the date of the last signature affixed hereto between MILLENNIUM BANK, N.A., a national banking association (the  Bank ), and Anita L. Shull ( Executive ).       1.  EMPLOYMENT DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES        1.1
 Position and Title . The Bank hereby agrees to employ the Executive in the position described on Addendum A attached hereto and the Executive hereby accepts such position and agrees to serve the Bank in such capacity during the employment
period set forth in Section 2 below, subject to earlier termination as provided hereunder (the  Employment Period ). The Executive shall perform such job duties and responsibilities as determined in discussion with the CEO of the Bank
and in accordance with the Bank s Bylaws. The Bank shall retain the right to modify the Executive s job title and responsibilities pursuant to the legitimate business needs of the Bank, provided that any such modification in title or
responsibilities is consistent with the Executive s expertise and training.      1.2  Reporting Relationship . The Executive shall
report to the person serving in the position described on Addendum A attached hereto (the  Executive s Manager ), although the Bank shall retain the right to modify such reporting relationship pursuant to the legitimate business needs
of the Bank. The Executive shall be subject to, and shall act in accordance with, all reasonable legal instructions and directions of the Executive s Manager which are commensurate with duties and responsibilities of similar level executives of
institutions comparable to the Bank, as well as any other duties as may from time to time be reasonably assigned by the Bank that are commensurate with Executive s position.      1.3  Bank Policies and Procedures . The Executive agrees to abide by all applicable policies and procedures of the Bank.      1.4  Full Attention . During the Employment Period, excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which Executive is entitled, Executive shall
devote Executive s full business time, energy and attention to the performance of Executive s duties and responsibilities hereunder. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall at all times operate in accordance with the Bank s
Ethics Policy and may not, without the prior written consent of the Board, operate, participate in the management, operations or control of, or act as an employee, officer, consultant, agent or representative of, any other entity or business that is
not related to the Bank, provided that it shall not be a violation of the foregoing for the Executive: (i) to act or serve as a director on the boards of directors of any type of non-profit civil, cultural, philanthropic or professional
organization; (ii) to manage Executive s own personal passive investments; or (c) to serve, with the written consent of the Executive s Manager, on the board of directors of for-profit entities, so long as such activities do not
violate the Bank s policy on external directorship or materially interfere with the performance of Executive s duties and responsibilities to the Bank as provided hereunder.       2. TERM OF EMPLOYMENT.       2.1  Effective Date . The Effective Date of this Agreement shall be as
set forth on Appendix A.      2.2.  Initial Term . The Bank agrees to employ the Executive and the Executive hereby agrees to serve
the Bank in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein, for an initial term of three (3) years commencing on the Effective Date of this Agreement ( Initial Term ), unless such Agreement is earlier terminated as
expressly provided herein.         

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  A NITA  L. S HULL    
      
  P AGE  1                   

2.3.  Renewal Term . The Term shall be extended for an additional one (1) year term at the
conclusion of the Initial Term, and then again after each successive term thereafter (such one year terms hereinafter  Renewal Term ), unless either party terminates this Agreement at the end of the Initial Term or any Renewal Term, by
giving the other party written notice of intent not to renew, delivered at least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the Initial Term or any Renewal Term. In the event such notice of intent not to renew is properly delivered, this Agreement
shall expire at the end of the initial term or successive term then in progress, expect with respect to any obligations which explicitly by their terms survive the termination of this Agreement.       3. COMPENSATION       3.1  Base Salary . The Bank
shall pay to Executive, and Executive shall accept from the Bank, a monthly base salary in the amount set forth on Addendum A attached hereto, payable on the Bank s standard pay schedule, provided that the Executive has provided service to the
Bank during the specified pay period. Executive s base salary may not be decreased at any time during this Agreement without the express written consent of the Executive. The base salary may be increased at the sole discretion of the Bank, but
nothing herein shall be deemed to require any such increase.      3.2  Incentive Compensation/Bonus . Executive may be eligible to receive
a bonus based upon satisfactory achievement of personal performance objectives and business performance objectives as set forth in the Millennium Bank Executive Incentive Compensation Plan and Appendix A hereto.      3.3  Stock Options . Executive will be eligible for stock options and/or restricted stock as may be awarded by the Board, with the advice and
consent of the CEO, in its sole discretion      3.4.  Expenses . Executive shall be entitled to reimbursement of pre-approved business
expenses that are incurred in the furtherance of Bank business and are consistent with the Bank s policies for such expense reimbursement.      3.5  Benefits . Executive shall receive such health, dental, personal disability, Flexible Spending Account, life insurance and paid time-off benefits as are provided to similarly situated Executives of the Bank.       4. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT       Executive s
employment with the Bank may be terminated, prior to the expiration of any term of this Employment Agreement, in accordance with any of the following provisions:      4.1  Termination By Executive Upon Mutual Agreement . Executive may not terminate Executive s employment during the course of this Agreement unless such termination is mutually agreed upon by the Executive
and the Bank. Should Executive cease providing services to the Bank prior to the end of the Term without the consent of the Bank, the Bank shall have no obligation to pay the Executive any additional compensation beyond the Executive s last day
of active service, but for the remainder of the Term, the Executive shall not be employed or engaged or provide services to any other bank or financial institution that is located within 25 miles of the Bank s offices in Reston, Virginia, or
within 25 miles of any of the Bank s branches then in existence.      4.2  Termination By The Bank Without Cause . The Bank may
terminate Executive s employment without cause at any time during the term of this Agreement by giving the Executive three (3) months  notice of such termination, during which period Executive will continue to receive normal  

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  A NITA  L. S HULL    
      
  P AGE  2                   

compensation and benefits to which Executive would normally be entitled under the terms of this Agreement. During the notice period, Executive must fulfill
all of Executive s duties and responsibilities and use Executive s best efforts to train and support Executive s replacement, if any. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank, at its option, may instruct Executive during such period
not to undertake any active duties on behalf of the Bank.      If Executive is terminated under this section, within thirty (30) days
following the conclusion of the notice period and receipt of the signed separation agreement described below, the Bank shall provide Executive: (a) a lump sum payment consisting of an amount equal to the Executive s Base Salary for the
number of days left in the Term of the Agreement or for nine (9) months, whichever is greater; (b) a lump sum payment consisting of Executive s bonus target for the year in which the termination without cause occurs; and
(c) payment by the Bank of Executive s COBRA coverage for the remainder of the Term of the Agreement or 18 months, whichever is less, provided Executive is covered under the Bank s health plan and timely elects continued coverage
under COBRA.      Executive expressly agrees and acknowledges that all payments and benefits referenced herein which may be paid to Executive
as a result of a Termination Without Cause are conditioned upon and subject to the Executive executing a valid separation agreement and general release, which includes a release of all claims the Executive may have against the Bank, and all of its
respective subsidiaries, affiliates, directors, officers, employees, shareholders and agents (other than rights of indemnification, rights to directors and officers insurance, and any rights to accrued benefits under the employee benefit plans), a
cooperation clause, a non-disparagement clause, and an affirmation of post-employment restrictions previously agreed to by Executive.      4.3
 Termination By The Bank For Cause . The Bank may, at any time and without notice (except as required below), terminate the Executive for  cause . Termination by the Bank of the Executive for  cause  shall include but not be
limited to termination based on any of the following grounds: (a) fraud, misappropriation, embezzlement or acts of similar dishonesty; (b) conviction of a crime (other than a minor traffic offense); (c) illegal use of drugs or
excessive use of alcohol in the workplace; (d) intentional and willful misconduct that may subject the Bank to criminal or civil liability; or (e) breach of the Executive s duty of loyalty to the Bank or diversion or usurpation of
corporate opportunities properly belonging to the Bank; (f) willful disregard of material Bank policies and procedures; and (g) insubordination or continued failure to satisfactorily perform the duties of Executive s position.
Executive shall not be terminated for cause under subsection (f) or (g) unless the Bank first has provided Executive with written notice that the Bank considers the Executive to be in violation of his obligations under those subsections
and Executive fails, within 30 days of such notice, to cure the conduct that has given rise to the notice.      In the event of a termination
by the Bank for cause, Executive shall be entitled to receive only that base salary earned on or before the Executive s last day of active service and other post-employment benefits required by law or under Bank policy. Executive shall not be
entitled to receive any portion of Executive s target bonus for the period in which the termination occurs but shall receive any accrued bonus for any performance period completed prior to the date of termination.      4.4  Termination By Death Or Disability . The Executive s employment and rights to compensation under this Employment Agreement shall terminate
if the Executive is unable to perform the duties of Executive s position due to death or disability, and the Executive s heirs, beneficiaries, successors, or assigns shall be entitled only to receive any compensation fully earned prior to
the date of the Executive s death or incapacitation due to disability and shall not be entitled to any other compensation or benefits, except: (a) to the extent specifically provided in this Employment Agreement; (b) to the extent
required by law; or (c) to the extent that such benefit plans or policies under which Executive is covered provide a benefit to the Executive s heirs, beneficiaries, successors, or assigns. For  

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  A NITA  L. S HULL    
      
  P AGE  3                   

purposes of this Agreement,  disability  shall be defined as the Executive s inability to perform the essential functions of Executive s
position, with or without reasonable accommodations, as a result of the Executive s physical or mental impairment or illness, for a period in excess of four months in any twelve-month period.       5. CONFIDENTIALITY AND NONDISCLOSURE       5.1
 Non-Disclosure of Confidential Information . Executive recognizes that Executive s position with Bank is one of the highest trust and confidence and that Executive will have access to and contact with the trade secrets and confidential
and proprietary business information of Bank. Executive agrees that Executive shall not, while employed by Bank or thereafter, directly or indirectly, use for his own benefit or for the benefit of another, or disclose to another any trade secret or
Confidential Information (as defined below) of the Bank, except such use or disclosure is in the discharge of executive s duties and obligations on behalf of the Bank.      5.2  Definition of  Confidential Information  . For purposes of this Agreement,  Confidential Information  shall include
proprietary or sensitive information, materials, knowledge, data or other information of the Bank not generally known or available to the public relating to (a) the services, products, customer lists, business plans, marketing plans, pricing
strategies, or similar confidential information of the Bank or (b) the business of any Bank customer, including without limitation, knowledge of the customer s current financial status, loans, or financial needs.      5.3  Return of Materials and Equipment . Executive further agrees that all memoranda, notes, records, drawings, or other documents made or compiled
by Executive or made available to Executive while employed by Bank concerning any Bank activity shall be the property of Bank and shall be delivered to Bank upon termination of Executive s employment or at any other time upon request. Executive
also agrees to return any and all equipment belonging to the Bank on or before Executive s last day of employment with Bank.      5.4
 No Prior Restrictions . The Executive hereby represents and warrants to the Bank that the execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement does not violate any provision of any agreement or restrictive covenant which the Executive has
with any former employer (a  Former Employer ). The Executive further acknowledges that to the extent the Executive has an obligation to the Former Employer not to disclose certain confidential information, Executive intends to honor such
obligation and the Bank hereby agrees not to knowingly request the Executive to disclose such confidential information.       6. POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS
      6.1  Non-Interference With Customers . Executive further agrees that, during the Employment Period and for a period of twelve
months thereafter, Executive shall not undertake to interfere with the Bank s relationship with any Bank customer. This means, among other things, that Executive shall refrain: (i) from making disparaging comments about the Bank or its
management or employees to any customer; (ii) from attempting to persuade any customer to cease doing business with the Bank; or (iii) from soliciting any customer for the purpose of providing services competitive with the services
provided by the Bank; or (iv) from assisting any person or entity in doing any of the foregoing.      6.2  Non-Solicitation and
Non-Hiring of Employees . Executive agrees that, for the term of Executive s employment and for a period of one (1) year following the termination of Executive s employment for any reason, the Executive shall not, directly or
indirectly, on Executive s own behalf or  

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  A NITA  L. S HULL    
      
  P AGE  4                   

the behalf of another person or entity: (i) induce or attempt to induce any person employed by the Bank to leave their employment with the Bank;
(ii) hire or employ, or attempt to hire or employ, any person employed by the Bank; or (iii) assist any other person or entity in the hiring of any person employed by the Bank. These restrictions shall apply only where the services or
products provided by the hiring entity are competitive with the services or products provided by the Bank.      6.3  Reasonableness .
Executive understands and acknowledges that the restrictions contained herein are reasonable in that they do not prohibit Executive from seeking employment with another financial institution or entity (except as set forth in Section 4.1 above),
but merely restrict Executive s ability, during the Employment Period and for a period of 12 months thereafter, to interfere with or hinder the Bank s relationships with its employees and customers.      6.4  Remedies . In the event that Executive breaches any of the covenants contained herein, the Bank shall be entitled to its remedies at law and in
equity, including but not limited to compensatory and punitive damages, and payment of Executive of attorney s fees and expenses of litigation incurred by the Bank in bringing an action to enforce the terms of this Agreement. The parties also
recognize that any breach of the covenants contained herein may result in irreparable damage and injury to Bank which will not be adequately compensable in monetary damages, and that in addition to any remedy that Bank may have at law, the Bank may
obtain such preliminary or permanent injunction or decree as may be necessary to protect Bank against, or on account of, any breach of the provisions contained herein.       7. CHANGE IN CONTROL       In the event Executive s employment is terminated within six
(6) months prior or twelve (12) months following a Change in Control, the provisions of this section shall apply.      7.1  Change
in Control Defined : A  Change in Control  is deemed to have taken place if any of the following events occurs: (a) The shareholders of Millennium Bankshares approve a transaction for the merger, consolidation, or other combination
of Millennium Bankshares with another corporation or business entity where the Company is not the Surviving Entity, as defined below; (b) The shareholders of Millennium Bankshares approve the sale of all or substantially all the assets of
Millennium Bankshares where the Company is not the Surviving Entity, as defined below; or (c) A Person which does not presently hold at least 10% of the shares of the Company becomes, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of securities
representing 50% or more of the voting power or the Company s then outstanding securities.  Person  is defined as any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities and Exchange Act of
1934).      7.2   Surviving Entity  Defined . Millennium Bankshares shall not be considered the  Surviving Entity  of
a transaction described in subparagraphs (a) and (b) if the individuals who constitute the Board of Directors on the date one day prior to the closing date of the transaction cease to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the
Surviving Entity at any time within the three months following the transaction. The surviving entity, if not Millennium Bankshares, shall hereinafter be known as the  Successor Employer .      7.3  Payout Events.  The Executive shall be entitled to the full and complete rights afforded by this section if, during the period that begins six
(6) months prior to the Closing Date of a Change in Control event and that ends twelve (12) months following the Closing Date of a Change in Control event, the Executive: (a) is involuntarily terminated by the Bank or the Successor
Employer, unless such termination is for Cause, as such term is defined in this Employment Agreement; or (b) resigns from employment with the Bank or the Successor Employer following a reduction in the Executive s base salary or bonus
opportunity; or (c) is required by the Bank or the Successor Employer to relocate the Executive s place of employment to a location more than 25 miles from the Executive s current place of employment.  Closing Date 
shall mean the date on which such transaction or stock purchase is signed and finalized.         

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  A NITA  L. S HULL    
      
  P AGE  5                   

7.4  Benefits Under This Section . If any of the Payout Events described above occurs, Executive
shall be entitled to receive, in addition to any other post-employment benefits to which Executive may be entitled under Bank policy, the following compensation and benefits, provided the Executive has executed the separation agreement and general
release described in Section 4.2 above: (a) a lump sum severance payment in the amount of base salary and target bonus for the greater of (i) the remainder of the applicable Term under this Employment Agreement or
(ii) twenty-four (24) months; and (b) payment by the Bank of Executive s COBRA coverage for the remainder of the Term of the Agreement or 18 months, whichever is less, provided Executive is covered under the Bank s health
plan and timely elects continued coverage under COBRA. The compensation to be paid under this section shall offset any compensation owed the Executive for the same period under this Agreement and is not intended to provide double compensation to the
Executive for any period of time. To the extent permitted under the terms of the Bank s stock option plan and/or stock option agreements with Executive, Executive also shall fully vest in any options or restricted stock in the event of a change
in control.      7.5  Excess Payments . If either the Bank or the Executive receives notice from an independent tax counsel or certified
public accounting firm acting on behalf of the Bank (the  Tax Advisor ), that the payment by the Bank to the Executive under this Agreement or otherwise would be considered to be an  excess parachute payment  within the meaning
of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor statute then in effect (the  Code ), the aggregate payments by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement shall be reduced to the highest amount that may be
paid to the Executive by the Bank under this Agreement without having any portion of any amount payable to the Executive by the Bank or a related entity under this Agreement or otherwise treated as such an  excess parachute payment , and,
if permitted by applicable law and without adverse tax consequence, such reduction shall be made to the last payment due hereunder. Any payments made by the Bank to the Executive under this Agreement which are later confirmed by the Tax Advisor to
be  excess parachute payments  shall be considered by all parties to have been a loan by the Bank to the Executive, which loan shall be repaid by the Executive upon demand together with interest calculated at the lowest interest rate
authorized for such loans under the Code without a requirement that further interest be imputed.       8. GENERAL PROVISIONS.       8.1  Notices . All notices and other communications required or permitted by this Agreement to be delivered by the Bank or Executive to the other
party shall be delivered in writing, either personally or by registered, certified or express mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, respectively, to the headquarters of the Bank, or to the address of record of the Executive on file at the
Bank.      8.2  Amendments: Entire Agreement . This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a writing executed by all of the
parties hereto. This Agreement, including any addendums hereto, constitutes the entire agreement between Executive and the Bank relating in any way to the employment of Executive by the Bank, and supersedes all prior discussions, understandings and
agreements between them with respect thereto.      8.3  Successors and Assigns . This Agreement is personal to Executive and shall not be
assignable by Executive. The Bank will assign its rights hereunder to (a) any corporation resulting from any merger, consolidation or other reorganization to which the Bank is a party or (b) any corporation, partnership, association or
other person to which the Bank may transfer all or substantially all of the assets and business of the Bank existing at such time or (c) the parent of Bank. All of the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure
to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.         

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  A NITA  L. S HULL    
      
  P AGE  6                   

8.4  Severability: Provisions Subject to Applicable Law . All provisions of this Agreement shall be
applicable only to the extent that they do not violate any applicable law, and are intended to be limited to the extent necessary so that they will not render this Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable under any applicable law. If any
provision of this Agreement or any application thereof shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of other provisions of this Agreement or of any other application of such provision shall in no
way be affected thereby.      8.5  Waiver of Rights . No waiver by the Bank or Executive of a right or remedy hereunder shall be deemed to
be a waiver of any other right or remedy or of any subsequent right or remedy of the same kind.      8.6  Definitions, Headings, and
Number . A term defined in any part of this Employment Agreement shall have the defined meaning wherever such term is used herein. The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any manner the
meaning or interpretation of this Employment Agreement.      8.7  Governing Law . This Agreement and the parties  performance
hereunder shall be governed by and interpreted under the laws of the Commonwealth Of Virginia. Executive agrees to submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the Commonwealth Of Virginia, and that venue for any action arising out of this Agreement
or the parties  performance hereunder shall be in the Circuit Court for the County of Fairfax, Virginia.      8.8.  Attorneys 
Fees . In the event of a dispute arising out of the interpretation or enforcement of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys  fees and costs.      8.9  Construction and Interpretation . This Agreement has been discussed and negotiated by, all parties hereto and their counsel and shall be given
a fair and reasonable interpretation in accordance with the terms hereof, without consideration or weight being given to its having been drafted by any party hereto or its counsel.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Millennium Bankshares, N.A. and Executive have executed and delivered this Agreement as of the date written below.       

EXECUTIVE  

MILLENNIUM BANK, N.A.  

A National Banking Association  

/s/ Anita L. Shull   

May 27, 2004   

By:  
     
    /s/ Carroll C. Markley   

May 27, 2004    
 
  Anita L. Shull  

Date  

Carroll C. Markley  

Date   

Title:  
     
    Chairman   Chief Executive Officer   

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  A NITA  L. S HULL    
      
  P AGE  7                   

ADDENDUM A TO        EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT OF ANITA L. SHULL       This Addendum A ( Addendum ) to the Employment
Agreement of Anita L. Shull ( Agreement ) is made of the date of the last signature hereto and supersedes and replaces any prior Addendum A to the Agreement.       

A.  
  Executive s title for purposes of Section 1.1 of the Agreement shall be  President .         

B.  
  Executive s Manager for purposes of Section 1.2 of the Agreement shall be the  Chief Executive Officer .         

F.  
  Pursuant to Section 3.2 of the Agreement, Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Millennium Bank Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Incentive Comp
Plan ). Executive s target bonus eligibility under the Incentive Comp Plan shall be  25%  of Executive s Base Salary (the  Target Bonus ) subject to the terms of the Plan, which shall be provided to Executive at a later
date.         

G.  
  The reference to  twenty-four (24) months  in Section 7.4(a)(ii) of the Agreement shall be changed to  forty-eight (48) months .

H.  
  Pursuant to Section 3.4 of the Agreement, Bank agrees that it shall further be responsible for the payment of any country club membership dues, as well as any related
entertainment expenses as a result of entertaining clients, incurred by Executive during the term of this Agreement         

EXECUTIVE  

MILLENNIUM BANK, N.A.  

A National Banking Association  

/s/ Anita L. Shull   

May 27, 2004   

By:  
     
    /s/ Carroll C. Markley   

May 27, 2004    
 
  Anita L. Shull  

Date  

Carroll C. Markley  

Date   

Title:  
     
    Chairman   Chief Executive Officer   

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  A NITA  L. S HULL    
      
  P AGE  8                   

Goals for 2004       

E MPLOYMENT  A GREEMENT   OF  A NITA  L. S HULL    
      
  P AGE  9                   

</EX-10.5>

<EX-21>
 5
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES

SUBSIDIARIES 

Exhibit 21       Subsidiaries of      Millennium Bankshares Corporation       

Millennium Bank, National Association (Virginia)         

Millennium Capital, Inc. (100% owned) (Virginia)         

Millennium Bank Mortgage, L.L.C. (51% owned) (Virginia)         

Millennium Hyland Mortgage, L.L.C. (51% owned) (Virginia)         

Millennium Sunbelt Mortgage, L.L.C. (51% owned) (Nevada)         

Millennium Brokerage Services, Inc. (Virginia)         

Millennium Financial, Inc. (Virginia)         

Millennium Capital Trust I     

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF CROWE CHIZEK AND COMPANY LLC

Consent of Crowe Chizek and Company LLC 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by
reference in Registration Statement No. 333-101076 and Registration No. 333-101077 on Form S-8 of Millennium Bankshares Corporation of our report dated March 23, 2006 appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10K of Millennium Bankshares Corporation
for the year ended December 31, 2005.      Crowe Chizek and Company LLC      Lexington, Kentucky      March 30, 2006   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CEO Certification 

Exhibit 31.1        RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION       I, Carroll C. Markley, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Millennium Bankshares Corporation or the period ended December 31, 2005;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:         

a.  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b.  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

c.  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a.  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b.  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006  
     
    /s/ Carroll C. Markley    

Carroll C. Markley   

Principal Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CFO Certification 

Exhibit 31.2        RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION       I, Dale G. Phelps, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Millennium Bankshares Corporation for the period ended December 31, 2005;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:         

a.  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b.  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

c.  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a.  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b.  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006  
     
    /s/ Dale G. Phelps    

Dale G. Phelps   

Principal Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CEO AND CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CEO and CFO Certification 

Exhibit 32.1        STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND        PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C.
SECTION 1350       In connection with the Form 10-K of Millennium Bankshares Corporation (the  Company ) for the period ended
December 31, 2005, we, Carroll C. Markley, Principal Executive Officer of the Company, and Dale G. Phelps, Principal Financial Officer of the Company, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to our knowledge:      (a) such Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005, fully complies with the
requirements of section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and      (b) the information contained in such Form 10-K for
the period ended December 31, 2005, fairly presents, in all material respects, the consolidated financial condition and results of Millennium Bankshares Corporation and its subsidiaries as of, and for, the periods presented in such Form 10-K.

Date: March 31, 2006  
     
    /s/ Carroll C. Markley    

Carroll C. Markley   

Principal Executive Officer   

/s/ Dale G. Phelps    

Dale G. Phelps   

Principal Financial Officer   

</EX-32.1>

