<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_1041380_0001011240-06-000012_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2938090</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>356921</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2106979</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>70</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001011240-06-000012.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331173455
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001011240-06-000012
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VIASYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001041380
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARDS [3672]
		IRS NUMBER:				431777252
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-29727
		FILM NUMBER:		06730274

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 SOUTH HANLEY SUITE 400
		CITY:			ST LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63105
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3147272087

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 SOUTH HANLEY SUITE 400
		CITY:			ST LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63105

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LfPnF5iqhX39IXB595rUP2c6FrEUNB3rEzq1MbdFf5N7gZ6HxBDP2yQafewCOBWk
 D6dTH/EXZAz+sIidgkQw+Q==

 0001011240-06-000012.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 via10k033106.htm
 VIASYSTEMS - FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005

UNITED
      STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

      Washington,
      D.C. 20549 

       Form
      10-K  

       (Mark
      One)  

       [X]             ANNUAL
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(   d   )
          OF
      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

For
      the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005  

       or  

[
      ]             TRANSITION
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(   d   )
          OF
      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

333-114467  

       (Commission
      File Number)  

Viasystems,
      Inc.  

       (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Delaware  

43-1777252  

(State
                or other jurisdiction  

(I.R.S.
                Employer  

of
                incorporation or organization)  

Identification
                No.)  

101
      South Hanley Road  

       St.
      Louis, Missouri 63105  

       (314)
      727-2087  

       (Address,
      including zip code, and telephone number, including  

       area
      code, of registrant's principal executive offices)  

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    None  

      Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    None  

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes [ ] No [X] 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes [X] No [ ] 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
      to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
      for
      the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ] 

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      Form 10-K. [X]  

Indicated
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
      filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act
      of 1934. (Check one): 

Large
      Accelerated Filer [ ]        Accelerated
      Filed [ ]        Non-Accelerated
      Filer [X] 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Yes [ ] No [X] 

No
      established published trading market exists for the common stock, par value
      $.01
      per share, of Viasystems, Inc. All of the 1,000 outstanding shares of common
      stock, par value $.01 per share, of Viasystems, Inc. are held by Viasystems
      Group, Inc. 

Indicate
      the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common
      stock, as of the latest practicable date. 

Indicate
      by check mark whether the Registrant has filed all documents and reports
      required to be filed by Section 12, 13, or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
      Act
      of 1934 subsequent to the distribution of securities under a plan confirmed
      by a
      court Yes [X ] No [ ] 

Documents
      incorporated by reference: None  

PART
      I   

CAUTIONARY
      STATEMENTS CONCERNING  

       FORWARD-LOOKING
      STATEMENTS  

Statements
      made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Report ) include the use of  we  and
 our , which unless specified otherwise refers collectively to Viasystems, Inc.
      ( Viasystems ) and its subsidiaries. Additionally, reference to  Group  refers
      to Viasystems  holding company parent Viasystems Group, Inc.  

We
      have
      made forward-looking statements in this Report, including those made in the
      sections entitled  Risk Factors  and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
      Financial Condition and Results of Operations," that are based on our
      management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available
      to
      our management. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our
      possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing
      plans, competitive position, potential growth opportunities and effects of
      competition. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not
      historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology
      such as the words "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans,"
      "estimates" or other similar expressions. 

Forward-looking
      statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may
      differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements.
      You
      should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We do not
      have
      any intention or obligation to update forward-looking statements after we file
      this Report. 

You
      should understand that many important factors could cause our results to differ
      materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. These factors
      include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in our operating results and
      customer orders, our competitive environment, our reliance on our largest
      customers, risks associated with our international operations, our ability
      to
      protect our patents and trade secrets, environmental laws and regulations,
      our
      substantial indebtedness and our ability to comply with the terms thereof,
      control by our largest stockholders and other factors. 

ITEM
      1.        Business    

General  

We
      are a
      leading worldwide provider of complex multi-layer printed circuit boards (PCBs),
      wire harnesses and electro-mechanical solutions (EMS). The products we
      manufacture include, or can be found in, a wide array of products including
      automotive dash panels and control modules, major household appliances, data
      networking equipment, telecommunications switching equipment and a variety
      of
      complex medical and technical instruments. We currently have 12 manufacturing
      facilities, including 11 manufacturing sites in China and Mexico to take
      advantage of low cost, high quality manufacturing environments. In addition,
      in
      order to support our customers  local needs we have maintained engineering and
      customer service centers in the Netherlands, Canada, England, China, Mexico
      and
      the United States. 

We
      are a
      supplier to over 200 manufacturers of original equipment in numerous end
      markets, including industry leaders Alcatel SA, Bosch Group, Delphi Corporation,
      AB Electrolux, EMC Corporation, General Electric Company, Huawei Technologies
      Co
      Ltd., KIS Photo-Me Group, Lucent Technologies, Inc., Maytag Corporation, Otis
      Elevator Company, Rockwell Automation, Inc., Siemens AG, Sun Microsystems,
      Inc.,
      Tellabs, Inc. and Whirlpool Corporation. We have also forged strategic alliances
      with leading contract manufacturers such as Celestica, Inc. and Solectron
      Corporation. We supply PCBs to our contract manufacturing partners through
      these
      strategic alliances. 

Our
      Development  

Viasystems
      is a wholly owned subsidiary of Viasystems Group, Inc.. Group was formed in
      1996
      by Hicks, Muse, Tate   Furst Incorporated) under the name Circo Craft
      Holding Company to create a preferred global manufacturing provider to leading
      original equipment manufacturers through acquisitions of PCB fabricators and
      backpanel assemblers. In August 1996, Circo Craft Holding Company changed
      its name to CC Canada Holding Company and then back to Circo Craft Holding
      Company in September 1996. Circo Craft Holding Company had no operations
      prior to its first acquisition in October 1996, when it changed its name to
      Circo Technologies, Inc. In January 1997, Circo Technologies, Inc. changed
      its
      name to Viasystems Group, Inc. We were formed on April 2, 1997. On April 10,
      1997, Viasystems Group, Inc. contributed all of the capital stock of its
      then existing subsidiaries to us. Currently, Viasystems Group, Inc. remains
      as our parent holding company. 

From
      1997
      through 2001, we expanded rapidly through the acquisitions of several businesses
      throughout Europe and North America. During that time, we expanded our business
      model to include full systems assemblies, wire harnesses and cable assemblies.
      In addition, in late 1999, we purchased our first business based in China and
      expanded our product offering in China by acquisition through 2001. 

In
      early
      2001, the telecommunications and networking industries began a significant
      business downturn caused in the decline in capital spending related to such
      industry. The decline in capital spending in the telecommunications and
      networking industry was exacerbated by excess inventories for such industries
      within the contract manufacturing supply chain as the five largest contract
      manufacturers collectively experienced a reported 138% increase in inventories
      during 2000. 

The
      major
      appliance wire harness business was generally unaffected by the economic
      recession which commenced in 2001. The wire harness business is driven primarily
      by sales of household major appliances which in turn are primarily driven by
      consumer replacement purchases due to product obsolescence.  

Since
      April 2001, we have conducted an extensive review of our operations and closed
      or sold 24 under-performing or non-strategic facilities. During that time,
      we
      streamlined our business to focus on PCBs, wire harnesses and electro-mechanical
      solutions, and we significantly diversified our end markets and customer base.
      In 2003, we completed a reorganization that has enabled us to improve our asset
      base, profitability, operating flexibility and balance sheet and to reduce
      our
      debt levels. 

In
      2004,
      we continued to further our strategy of expanding our capacity and manufacturing
      capabilities in low cost jurisdictions by our $60.0 million investment in our
      China PCB operations. Additionally, we continued to diversify our customer
      base
      and to streamline operations in our high cost manufacturing areas. 

In
      2005,
      in furtherance of our low cost manufacturing strategy, we closed all of our
      remaining western world printed circuit board facilities located in Canada
      and
      the Netherlands. Certain equipment from the closed facilities was transferred
      to
      our China PCB operations as we continued the move to low cost areas in the
      world. In order to support our customers  local needs, we maintain engineering
      and customer service centers in the Netherlands, Canada, England, China, Mexico
      and the United States.  

On
      June
      6, 2005, we announced that we were engaged in the process of exploring a range
      of strategic alternatives related to our wire harness business, including the
      possible sale of such business. On March 21, 2006, we entered into an agreement
      to sell our wire harness business to Electrical Components International
      Holdings Company ( ECI ), a newly formed affiliate of Francisco Partners, L.P.,
      a private equity firm for approximately $320 million. The sale, which is subject
      to certain conditions, is expected to be consummated by the end of the second
      calendar quarter 2006. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations - Recent Developments . 

We
      are
      headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri. The mailing address for our headquarters
      is 101 South Hanley Road, Suite 400, St. Louis, Missouri 63105, and our
      telephone number at that location is (314) 727-2087. We can also be reached
      at
      our web site   www.viasystems.com  .
      Upon
      written request, a copy of this Form 10-K will be provided to any senior
      subordinated noteholder. In addition, copies of our filings are available on
      the
      SEC website at www.sec.gov. 

Our
      Industries  

Printed
      Circuit Boards -    PCBs
      serve as the foundation of almost all electronic equipment, providing the
      circuitry and mounting surfaces necessary to interconnect discrete electronic
      components, including integrated circuits, capacitors and resistors. PCBs
      consist of a pattern of electrical circuitry etched from copper and laminated
      to
      a board made of insulating material, thereby providing electrical
      interconnection between the components mounted onto it.  

Wire
      Harnesses and Cable Assemblies     
      -     Wire
      harnesses and cable assemblies are used in a variety of products to connect
      the
      motors, pumps, switches and other control devices to a central point at which
      power is delivered. 

Electro-Mechanical
      Solutions     
      -     Companies
      that provide electro-mechanical solutions offer a wide variety of products
      and
      services, primarily including assembly of backplanes, custom and standard metal
      enclosures and racks, "box build" systems integration and assembly, final
      product testing and fulfillment.  

Our
      Business Strategy  

We
      believe we are well positioned for growth in sales and operating income through
      a strategy based on the following: 

Maintain
      Diverse End Market Mix     
      -     Due
      to a
      dramatic economic downturn during 2001 and 2002 in the telecommunications and
      networking industries, we expanded our offerings into the automotive, consumer
      and industrial/instrumentation markets. Our sales to each of these segments,
      both in absolute dollars as well as percentage of sales, have grown in recent
      years. For the four year period from 2002 to 2005, we increased our net sales
      in
      the automotive, consumer and industrial/instrumentation markets by 35.9%, 35.5%
      and 50.3%, respectively. In order to reduce our exposure and reliance on
      unpredictable end markets and to provide alternative growth paths, we intend
      to
      continue to maintain our focus on a diverse mix of end markets. 

Expand
      Manufacturing Capabilities in Low Cost Locations     
      -     To
      meet
      our customers' demands for high quality, low cost products and services, we
      have
      and will continue to invest in facilities and equipment in low cost locations.
      For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 95.0% of our net
      sales were generated from products produced in our operations in China and
      Mexico. We will continue to develop our best-in-class technology and
      manufacturing process in our low cost locations. In 2006, our wire harness
      business will open a new facility in Futian, China in order to serve our
      customers  growing production needs in China. We believe our ability to leverage
      our advanced technology and manufacturing capabilities across our organization
      in our low cost locations will enable us to grow revenues, improve profitability
      and effectively meet our customers' requirements for high quality, low cost
      products and services. 

Enhance
      Our Strong Customer Relationships     
      -     We
      are
      focused on expanding our business with existing customers by leveraging our
      history of quality, high levels of customer service and operational excellence,
      all of which provide us with the opportunity to bid for additional programs
      from
      the strong position of a preferred provider. In addition, we have forged
      strategic alliances with leading contract manufacturers such as Celestica,
      Inc.
      and Solectron Corporation. These types of alliances provide us access to
      additional PCB sales opportunities and provide our strategic partners the
      ability to market a fully integrated product offering. Our management team
      has
      created a culture that is focused on providing customers with high-quality
      service and technical support, and this is reflected in our continuing ability
      to obtain new business and expand our current customer
      relationships. 

Expand
      Our Relationships with Existing Customers Through Cross-Selling     
      -     Building
      on our broad product offering, we pursue cross-selling opportunities with our
      existing base of customers. We leverage our PCB capabilities to provide our
      customers with an integrated manufacturing solution that can range from
      fabrication of bare PCBs to final system assembly and test. We intend to
      continue to leverage our customer relationships to expand the products we sell
      to our customers. 

Concentrate
      on High Value-Added Products and Services     
      -     We
      focus
      on providing electro-mechanical solutions to leading manufacturers of advanced
      electronics products that generally require custom designed, more complex
      products and short lead-time manufacturing services. These products are
      typically lower volume, higher margin products. We differentiate ourselves
      from
      many of our global competitors by not participating directly in programs for
      high volume, low margin products such as cell phone handsets, personal computers
      or peripherals and consumer electronics. 

Focus
      on Operational Excellence      -
          We
      continuously implement strategic initiatives designed to improve product quality
      while reducing manufacturing costs. We continue to focus on opportunities to
      improve operating income, including: (1) streamlining of marketing and
      general and administrative overhead; (2) continued implementation of lean
      manufacturing and Six Sigma initiatives; (3) efficient investment in new
      equipment and technologies and the upgrading of existing equipment; and
      (4) continued improvement of our internal controls and centralization of
      certain aspects of our accounting and finance functions. Our management team
      is
      focused on maximizing our current asset base to improve our operational
      efficiency while also adapting to the needs of our customers and the
      market. 

Markets
      and Customers   

We
      provide products and services to more than 200 manufacturers of original
      equipment. We believe our position as a strategic supplier of printed circuit
      boards, wire harnesses and electro-mechanical solutions, fosters close
      relationships with our customers. These relationships have resulted in
      additional growth opportunities as we have expanded our capabilities and
      capacity to meet our customers' wide range of needs. 

The
      following table shows our net sales as a percentage by principal end-user
      markets we serve: 

Although
      we seek to diversify our customer base, a small number of customers are
      responsible for a significant portion of our net sales. For the years ended
      December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, sales to our 10 largest customers
      accounted for approximately 72.4%, 72.1% and 73.1% of our net sales,
      respectively, and sales to our largest customer, General Electric Company,
      represented approximately 12.1%, 11.3% and 13.2% of our net sales,
      respectively. 

On
      March
      21, 2006, we entered into an agreement to sell our wire harness business. See
       Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations Recent Developments . If we exclude the sales from our wire harness
      business for the year ended December 31, 2005, sales to our top 10
      customers would account for 71.9% of our net sales, and sales to each of our
      top
      4 customers (which would no longer include General Electric Company), each
      would
      exceed 10% of our net sales. 

Manufacturing
      Services  

Our
      offering of manufacturing services includes the following:  

Design
      and Prototyping Services     
      -     We
      provide comprehensive front-end engineering services, including custom enclosure
      design, circuit board layout and related design services leading to efficient
      manufacturing and delivery. We offer quick-turn prototyping, which is the rapid
      production of a new product sample. Our quick-turn prototype service allows
      us
      to provide small test quantities to our customers' product development groups.
      Our participation in product design and prototyping allows us to reduce our
      customers' manufacturing costs and their time-to-market and time-to-volume.
      These services enable us to strengthen our relationships with customers that
      require advanced engineering services. In addition, by working closely with
      customers throughout the development and manufacturing process, we often gain
      insight into their future product requirements. 

Printed
      Circuit Board and Backpanel Fabrication     
      -     Printed
      circuit boards are platforms that connect semiconductors and other electronic
      components. Backpanels connect printed circuit boards. We manufacture
      multi-layer printed circuit boards and backpanels on a low-volume, quick-turn
      basis, as well as on a high-volume production basis. In recent years, the trend
      in the electronics industry has been to increase the speed and performance
      of
      components while reducing their size. Semiconductor designs are currently so
      complex that they often require printed circuit boards with many layers of
      narrow, tightly spaced wiring. These advancements in component technologies
      have
      driven the change in printed circuit board design to higher density printed
      circuits. 

Wire
      Harnesses and Cable Assemblies     
      -     A
      wire
      harness and cable assembly is an assembly of wires with connectors and terminals
      attached to their ends that transmits electricity between two or more points.
      We
      are one of the leading suppliers of wire harnesses and cable assemblies for
      use
      in household appliances. Due to the similarity in the process technology used
      in
      the manufacture of wire harnesses and cable assemblies for many other products
      and in the manufacture of wire harnesses for use in household appliances, we
      strive to leverage this expertise to enhance the value of the products and
      services we supply to our customers in the other industries. On March 21, 2006,
      we entered into an agreement to sell ourwire harness business. See  Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Recent
      Developments . 

Backpanel
      Assembly     
      -     We
      provide backpanel assemblies, which are manufactured by mounting interconnect
      devices, integrated circuits and other electronic components on a bare
      backpanel. This process differs from that used to provide printed circuit board
      assemblies primarily because of the larger size of the backpanel and the more
      complex placement techniques that must be used with higher layer count printed
      circuits. We also perform functional and in-circuit testing on assembled
      backpanels. 

Printed
      Circuit Board Assembly     
      -     As
      a
      complement to our electro-mechanical solutions offering, we manufacture printed
      circuit board assemblies. Generally, we do not produce printed circuit board
      assemblies separately, but rather we integrate them with other components as
      part of a full electro-mechanical solution. In addition, we offer testing of
      assembled printed circuit boards and testing of all of the functions of the
      completed product, and we work with our customers to develop product-specific
      test strategies. Our test capabilities include manufacturing defect analysis,
      in-circuit tests, functional tests and environmental stress tests of board
      or
      system assemblies. 

Custom
      Enclosures     
      -     We
      specialize in the manufacture of custom designed chassis and enclosures
      primarily used in the electronics, telecommunications, industrial and computer
      industries. As a fully integrated supply chain partner with expertise in design,
      rapid prototyping, manufacturing, packaging and logistics, we provide our
      customers with reduced manufacturing costs and shortened time to market
      throughout a product's life cycle. 

Full
      System Assembly and Test     
      -     We
      provide full system assembly services to customers from our facilities in China
      and Mexico. These services require sophisticated logistics capabilities and
      supply chain management capabilities to procure components rapidly, assemble
      products, perform complex testing and deliver products to end users around
      the
      world. Our full system assembly services involve combining custom metal
      enclosures and a wide range of subassemblies, including printed circuit board
      assembly. We also employ advanced test techniques to various subassemblies
      and
      final end products. Increasingly, customers require custom, build-to-order
      system solutions with very short lead times. We are focused on exploiting this
      trend through our advanced supply chain management capabilities. 

Packaging
      and Global Distribution     
      -     We
      offer
      our customers flexible, just-in-time and build-to-order delivery programs,
      allowing product shipments to be closely coordinated with customers' inventory
      requirements. Increasingly, we ship products directly into customers'
      distribution channels or directly to the end-user. 

After-Sales
      Support     
      -     We
      offer
      a wide range of after-sales support services. This support can be tailored
      to
      meet customer requirements, including field failure analysis, product upgrades,
      repair and engineering change management. 

Supply
      Chain Management     
      -     Effective
      management of the supply chain is critical to the success of customers as it
      directly impacts the time required to deliver product to market and the capital
      requirements associated with carrying inventory. Our global supply chain
      organization works with customers and suppliers to meet production requirements
      and procure materials. We utilize our enterprise resource planning systems
      to
      optimize inventory management. 

Sales
      and Marketing  

We
      focus
      on developing close relationships with our customers at the earliest development
      and design phases and continuing throughout all stages of production. We
      identify, develop and market new technologies that benefit our customers and
      position us as a preferred product or service provider. 

We
      market
      our products through our own sales and marketing organization and through
      relationships with sales representatives around the world. This global sales
      organization is structured to ensure global account coverage by
      industry-specific teams of account managers. As of December 31, 2005, we
      employed approximately 156 sales and marketing employees, of which 97 are direct
      sales representatives strategically located throughout North America, Europe
      and
      Asia. Each customer segment marketing team shares support staff of sales
      engineers, program managers, technical service personnel and customer service
      organizations to ensure high-quality, customer-focused service. The global
      marketing organization further supports the sales organization through market
      research, market development and communications. 

Manufacturing
      and Engineering  

We
      produce highly complex, technologically advanced multi-layer and standard
      technology printed circuit boards, backpanel assemblies, printed circuit board
      assemblies, wire harnesses and custom cable assemblies, custom enclosures and
      full systems that meet increasingly tight tolerances and specifications demanded
      by customers. Multi-layering, which involves placing multiple layers of
      electronic circuitry on a single printed circuit board or backpanel, expands
      the
      number of circuits and components that can be contained on the interconnect
      product and increases the operating speed of the system by reducing the distance
      that electrical signals must travel. Increasing the density of the circuitry
      in
      each layer is accomplished by reducing the width of the circuit tracks and
      placing them closer together on the printed circuit board or backpanel.
      Interconnect products having narrow, closely spaced circuit tracks are known
      as
      fine line products. Today, we are capable of efficiently producing commercial
      quantities of printed circuit boards with up to 48 layers and circuit track
      widths as narrow as three one-thousandths of an inch. We have the capability
      to
      produce printed circuit boards with up to 62 layers and circuit track widths
      as
      narrow as three one-thousandths of an inch. The manufacture of complex
      multi-layer interconnect products often requires the use of sophisticated
      circuit interconnections between layers, called blind or buried vias, and
      adherence to strict electrical characteristics to maintain consistent circuit
      transmission speeds, referred to as controlled impedance. These technologies
      require very tight lamination and etching tolerances and are especially critical
      for printed circuit boards with ten or more layers. 

The
      manufacture of printed circuit boards involves several steps: etching the
      circuit image on copper-clad epoxy laminate, pressing the laminates together
      to
      form a panel; drilling holes and depositing copper or other conductive material
      to form the interlayer electrical connections; and cutting the panels to shape.
      Advanced interconnect products may also require additional critical steps,
      including dry film imaging, photoimageable soldermask processing, computer
      controlled drilling and routing, automated plating, and various surface
      finishes. Tight process controls are required throughout the manufacturing
      process to achieve critical electrical properties, such as controlled impedance.
      The manufacturing of printed circuit boards used in backpanel assemblies
      requires specialized expertise and equipment because of the larger size of
      the
      backpanel relative to other printed circuit boards and the increased number
      of
      holes for component mounting. 

The
      manufacture of wire harnesses involves four steps: (1) insulated copper
      wire is fed through cutting machines that are programmed to cut wire to a
      specific length, strip the end of the wire and attach terminals or connectors;
      (2) the lengths of wire are spliced or joined together and additional
      connectors and/or terminals are attached; (3) the cut and spliced wires are
      brought to the assembly area where assembly boards are used to guide employees
      on the placement of designated wires; and (4) each assembled harness is
      tested for continuity and analyzed by a trained inspector. Every assembly board
      is equipped with 100% continuity testers that are designed into the board.
      These
      testers will pinpoint any defective circuits for repair or rework. On March
      21,
      2006, we entered into an agreement to sell our wire harness business. See
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations Recent Developments . 

The
      manufacture of printed circuit board assemblies involves the attachment of
      various electronic components, such as integrated circuits, capacitors,
      microprocessors and resistors to printed circuit boards. The manufacture of
      backpanel assemblies involves attachment of electronic components, including
      printed circuit boards, integrated circuits and other components, to the
      backpanel, which is a large printed circuit board. We use surface mount,
      pin-through hole and press fit technologies in backpanel assembly. We also
      assemble higher-level sub-systems and full systems incorporating printed circuit
      boards and complex electromechanical components. 

We
      also
      provide computer-aided testing of printed circuit boards, sub-systems and full
      systems, which contributes significantly to our ability to deliver high quality
      products on a consistent basis. We test boards and system level assemblies
      to
      verify that all components have been properly inserted and that the electrical
      circuits are complete. Further functional tests determine if the board or system
      assembly is performing to customer specifications. 

Quality
      Standards  

Our
      quality systems are defect prevention based, customer focused and compliant
      to
      international standards. All of our facilities are compliant or certified to
      ISO
      9001:2000 which specifies requirements that focus on the effectiveness of the
      quality management system in meeting customer requirements. In addition to
      ISO
      9001:2000, we have facilities that are certified to QS 9000, TL 9000 and TS
      16949. 

Our
      facilities are also compliant to industry and regulatory requirements including
      Bellcore and, Underwriters Laboratories (UL). These requirements include
      quality, manufacturing process controls, manufacturing documentation and
      supplier certification of raw materials. 

Supplier
      Relationships  

We
      order
      materials and components based on purchase orders, forecasts and demand patterns
      of our customers and seek to minimize our inventory of materials or components
      that are not identified for use in filling specific orders or specific customer
      contracts. We continue to work with our suppliers to develop just-in-time supply
      systems which reduce inventory carrying costs, and contract globally, where
      appropriate, to leverage our purchasing volumes. We also certify our suppliers
      and potential suppliers on the basis of quality, on-time delivery, costs,
      technical capability, and potential technical advancement. Shortages of raw
      materials such as laminates, a principal material used in our PCB operations,
      have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. Prices for raw copper,
      a
      principal material used in our printed circuit boards, have risen over the
      past
      several months. Raw material or component shortages or price fluctuations such
      as these could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Competition  

Our
      industry is a highly competitive industry, and we believe our markets are highly
      fragmented. We face competition from numerous local, regional and a number
      of
      large international providers of PCBs, wire harnesses and electro-mechanical
      solutions. Our primary direct competitors are Flextronics Corporation,
      Sanmina-SCI Corp., Nanya Technology Corp., Merix Corporation, Compeq
      Manufacturing Co Ltd, Kingboard Chemical Holdings Ltd, and Noma Corporation
      (a
      division of Gentek). Some of our primary competitors may be less
      highly-leveraged, may have greater access to financial or other resources or
      may
      have lower cost operations allowing them to be better able to withstand adverse
      market conditions. We believe that competition in the market segments we serve
      is based on product quality, responsive customer service and support, and price,
      in part, because the cost of many of the products manufactured by us is usually
      low relative to the total cost of the equipment and because product reliability
      and prompt delivery are of greater importance to our customers. 

International
      Operations  

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, we had 11 manufacturing facilities located outside the
      United States, with sales offices throughout Europe and Asia Pacific. Our
      international operations account for approximately 95.0% of our 2005 net sales.
      We believe that our global presence is important as it allows us to provide
      consistent, quality products on a cost effective and timely basis to our
      multinational customers worldwide. We rely heavily on our international
      operations and are subject to risks generally associated with operating in
      foreign countries, including price and exchange controls, fluctuations in
      currency exchange rates and other restrictive actions that could have a material
      affect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash
      flows. 

Environmental  

Some
      of
      our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental
      laws and regulations, which govern, among other things, the discharge of
      pollutants into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage, manufacture
      and disposal of, or exposure to, solid and hazardous wastes, and occupational
      safety and health. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable
      environmental laws and the costs of compliance with such current or proposed
      environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect
      on
      us. We have facilities that are certified to ISO 14001. Further, we are not
      a
      party to any current claim or proceeding and we are not aware of any threatened
      claim or proceeding under environmental laws that could, if adversely decided,
      reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on us. Accordingly,
      we
      do not believe that any of these matters are reasonably likely to have a
      material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
      condition, prospects and ability to service debt. However, there can be no
      assurance that any material environmental liability will not arise in the future
      such as due to a change in the law or the discovery of currently unknown
      conditions. 

Employees  

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, we had 25,738 employees. Of these
      employees, 23,870 were involved in manufacturing, 1,373 in engineering, 156
      in sales and marketing, and 339 in accounting and administrative capacities.
      No
      employees were represented by a union pursuant to a collective bargaining
      agreement. We have not experienced any labor problems resulting in a work
      stoppage or work slowdown, and believe we have good relations with our
      employees. Completion of the sale of our wire harness business will result
      in a
      headcount reduction of 7,096 employees. 

Intellectual
      Property     

We
      have
      developed expertise and techniques that we use in the manufacture of printed
      circuit boards, wire harnesses and electro-mechanical solutions. Research,
      development and engineering expenditures for the creation and application of
      new
      products and processes were approximately $2.9 million, $3.3 million and
      $4.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005,
      respectively. We believe many of our processes related to the manufacture of
      printed circuit boards are proprietary, including our ability to manufacture
      large perimeter, thick, high-layer count backpanels. Generally, we rely on
      common law trade secret protection and on confidentiality agreements with our
      employees to protect our secrets and techniques. We own 122       patents
      (including pending patents), but believe that patents have not historically
      constituted a significant form of intellectual property rights in our industry.
      Our patents begin to expire in 8 years, with no patents expiring
      within the next two years.    The
      expiration of any of these patents is not expected to have a material adverse
      effect on our ability to operate.  

Backlog  

We
      estimate that our backlog of unfilled orders as of December 31, 2004
      and 2005 was approximately $167.8 million and $193.9 million, respectively.
      Included in the December 31, 2005 backlog is $71.2 million related to the
      wire harness business. On March 21, 2006, we entered into an agreement to sell
      our wire harness business harness business. See  Management s Discussion and
      Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Recent Developments .
      The increase in backlog from December 31, 2004 was due to increased
      customer demand at our Asian printed circuit board facilities and at our
      Chinese electro-mechanical solutions facilities. Because unfilled orders may
      be
      cancelled prior to delivery, the backlog outstanding at any point in time is
      not
      necessarily indicative of the level of business to be expected in the ensuing
      period. 

Segments  

We
      have
      determined that there are four reportable segments under the provisions of
      Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, including (i) China Printed
      Circuit Boards, (ii) North America Printed Circuit Boards, (iii) European
      Printed Circuit Boards and (iv) Assembly, which includes our wire harness
      business. See discussion of our segments in Note 16 to our consolidated
      financial statements. 

Item
      1A. Risk Factors   

Our
      business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted
      by a number of factors, including, but not limited to those set forth below,
      any
      one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent
      results or from our anticipated future results. For a discussion identifying
      additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results
      to
      differ materially from those anticipated, see the discussion in  Cautionary
      Statements Concerning Forward Looking Statements  in this Form 10-K and in
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations  and  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  in our 2005 Annual
      Report in this Form 10-K.  

Risks
      Relating to Our Businesses    

We
      emerged from a chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, have a history of
      losses and may not become profitable.        

We
      emerged from bankruptcy on January 31, 2003 and have a history of losses and
      cannot assure you that we will grow or achieve and maintain profitability in
      the
      near future, or at all. We emerged from our chapter 11 bankruptcy
      reorganization on January 31, 2003, approximately four months after filing
      a voluntary petition for bankruptcy reorganization. Prior to our reorganization,
      we incurred net losses of $259.2 million in 2002, $587.0 million in
      2001 and $136.0 million in 2000. After we emerged from bankruptcy, we
      incurred a net loss of $164.3 in 2003, a net profit of $5.7 in 2004 and a net
      loss of $84.5 in 2005. If we cannot achieve and maintain profitability, the
      value of our enterprise may decline. The holders of our common stock did not
      receive any distributions as such in connection with our
      reorganization. 

We
      have a substantial amount of debt and may be unable to service or refinance
      this
      debt, which could have negative consequences on our business in the
      future.   

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, our total outstanding indebtedness is approximately
      $462.5 million, with an additional $50.7 million available under the
      revolving portion of our senior credit facility. Our total interest expense
      for
      the year ended December 31, 2005 was approximately $40.8 million. As of
      December 31, 2005, our total consolidated stockholder s deficit was
      $5.0 million. 

This
      high
      level of debt could have negative consequences the Company. For example, it
      could:  

result
                  in our inability to comply with the financial and other restrictive
                  covenants in our senior credit facility, which, among other things,
                  require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our
                  ability to
                  incur debt and sell assets, which could in turn result in an event
                  of
                  default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse
                  effect
                  on our operations;  

increase
                  our vulnerability to adverse industry and general economic conditions;

require
                  us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations
                  to
                  make scheduled principal payments on our debt, thereby reducing
                  the
                  availability of our cash flow for working capital, capital investments
                  and
                  other business activities;  

limit
                  our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working
                  capital,
                  capital investments and other business activities;  

limit
                  our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are commercially
                  reasonable or at all;  

expose
                  us to the risk of interest rate fluctuations to the extent we pay
                  interest
                  at variable rates on the debt;  

limit
                  our flexibility to plan for, and react to, changes in our business
                  and our
                  industry; and  

place
                  us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our less leveraged
                  competitors.  

We
      may experience fluctuations in our operating results and, because many of our
      operating costs are fixed, even small revenue shortfalls can have a
      disproportionate effect on our operating results.   

Our
      operating results may vary significantly for a variety of reasons,
      including: 

overall
      economic conditions in the electronics industry; 

pricing
      pressures; 

timing
      of
      orders from and shipments to major customers; 

our
      capacity relative to the volume of orders; 

expenditures
      in anticipation of future sales; 

expenditures
      or write offs related to acquisitions; 

start-up
      expenses relating to new manufacturing facilities; and  

variations
      in product mix. 

Because
      a
      significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed, even a relatively
      small
      revenue shortfall can have a disproportionate effect on our results of
      operations. In addition, our historical results of operations may not be
      indicative of the results to be expected for any future period as a result
      of
      unanticipated revenue shortfalls. 

A
      significant portion of our net sales is based on transactions with our largest
      customers; if we lose any of these customers, our sales could decline
      significantly.      

For
      the
      years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, sales to our 10 largest
      customers accounted for approximately 72.4%, 72.1% and 73.1% of our net sales,
      respectively, and sales to our largest customer, General Electric Company,
      represented approximately 12.1%, 11.3% and 13.2% of our net sales, respectively.

Although
      we cannot assure you that our principal customers will continue to purchase
      products from us at past levels, we expect a significant portion of our net
      sales will continue to be concentrated within a small number of customers.
      Although we have an exclusive supply agreement with General Electric Company
      which remains in effect through December 2009, there may be circumstances that
      would allow General Electric Company to terminate the supply agreement or
      purchase required quantities from other suppliers if we fail to perform.
      Additionally, an extraordinary change in the major appliance business of General
      Electric Company could cause them to reduce their purchases from us under the
      supply agreement. The loss of, or significant curtailment of purchases by,
      General Electric Company or one of our other principal customers could have
      a
      material adverse effect on our net sales.  

On
      March 21, 2006, we entered into an agreement to sell our wire harness
      business. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
      Results of Operations Recent Developments . If we exclude the sales from our
      wire harness business for the year ended December 31, 2005, sales
      to our top 10 customers would account for 71.9% of our net sales to
      each of our top 4 customers (which would no longer include General
      Electric Company) would exceed 10% of our net sales. 

A
      significant portion of our business is conducted in foreign countries, exposing
      us to additional risks that may not exist in the United
      States.        

International
      manufacturing operations represent the majority of our business, and sales
      to
      foreign destinations represent a significant portion of our net sales. We expect
      net sales from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion
      of
      our total net sales. In addition, upon completion of the sale of our wire
      harness business, our business will be more highly concentrated in China, which
      may increase our exposure in this regard. Outside the Unites States, we operate
      facilities in Mexico and China.  

Our
      international operations are subject to a number of potential risks in addition
      to the risks of our domestic operations. Such risks include, among others:

inflation
                  or changes in political and economic conditions;  

unstable
                  regulatory environments;  

changes
                  in import and export duties;  

domestic
                  and foreign customs and tariffs;  

potentially
                  adverse tax consequences;  

trade
                  restrictions;  

restrictions
                  on the transfer of funds into or out of a country;  

labor
                  unrest;  

logistical
                  and communications challenges;  

difficulties
                  associated with managing a large organization spread throughout
                  various
                  countries;  

differing
                  protection of intellectual property and trade secrets; and  

other
                  restraints and burdensome taxes.  

These
        factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations, or on
        the
        ability of our international operations to repatriate earnings to us, in
        the
        future.  

There
      may be shortages of, or price fluctuations with respect to, raw materials which
      would cause us to curtail our manufacturing or incur higher than expected
      costs.        

We
      purchase the raw materials we use in producing our products and providing our
      services and we may be required to bear the risk of raw material price
      fluctuations. In addition, shortages of raw materials such as laminates, a
      principal raw material used in our PCB operations, have occurred in the past
      and
      may occur in the future. Prices for copper, a principal material used in our
      printed circuit boards, have risen over the past several months. Raw material
      or
      component shortages or price fluctuations such as these could have an adverse
      effect on our results of operations.  

We
      are subject to currency fluctuations, which may affect our cost of goods sold
      and operating margins.        

A
      significant portion of our costs, including payroll and rent, are denominated
      in
      foreign currencies. Changes in exchange rates between other currencies and
      the
      U.S. dollar will affect our cost of goods sold and operating margins. And
      could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Oil
      prices may fluctuate, which would increase our cost to manufacture
      goods    . 

We
      generate our own energy in certain of our manufacturing facilities using diesel
      generators and we will be required to bear the increased cost of generating
      energy if the cost of oil increases. Prices for diesel fuel have risen
      substantially over the past several months. Continued price increases for diesel
      fuel would increase our cost and could have an adverse effect on our results
      of
      operations. 

The
      printed circuit board, wire harness and cable assembly and electro-mechanical
      solutions industries are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete
      effectively in all or any one of them.        

The
      printed circuit board industry is highly competitive, with multiple global
      competitors and hundreds of regional and local manufacturers. The wire harness
      and cable assembly business is also highly competitive, with multiple regional
      competitors including established manufacturers of wire harnesses and cable
      assemblies for other industries, such as automotive. The electro-mechanical
      solutions industry is also highly competitive, with competitors on the global,
      regional and local levels and relatively low barriers to entry. In all these
      industries, we could experience increased future competition resulting in price
      reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. Any of these could have
      an
      adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. In addition,
      some of our principal competitors may be less highly-leveraged, may have greater
      access to financial or other resources, may have lower cost operations and
      may
      be better able to withstand adverse market conditions.  

We
      generally do not obtain long-term volume purchase commitments from customers,
      and, therefore, cancellations, reductions in production quantities and delays
      in
      production by our customers could adversely affect our operating
      results.        

We
      generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers.
      Customers may cancel their orders, reduce production quantities or delay
      production for a number of reasons. Many of our customers have over the past
      several years experienced significant decreases in demand for their products
      and
      services. The uncertain economic conditions in several of the markets in which
      our customers operate have prompted some of our customers to cancel orders,
      delay the delivery of some of the products that we manufacture or place purchase
      orders for fewer products than we previously anticipated. In addition, our
      products and the manufacturing processes we use to produce them are often highly
      complex and therefore may at times contain manufacturing defects. If we were
      to
      manufacture and deliver products to our customers that contain defects, whether
      caused by a design, manufacturing or component failure, or deficiencies in
      our
      manufacturing processes, this may result in delayed shipments to our customers
      and reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these defects or deficiencies
      were
      significant, our business reputation may also be damaged, which could lead
      to
      additional customer cancellations or non-renewals. Even when our customers
      are
      contractually obligated to purchase products from us, we may be unable or,
      for
      other business reasons, choose not to enforce our contractual rights.
      Cancellations, reductions or delays of orders by customers could:  

adversely
                  affect our operating results by reducing the volumes of products
                  that we
                  manufacture for our customers;  

delay
                  or eliminate recoupment of our expenditures for inventory purchased
                  in
                  preparation for customer orders; and  

lower
                  our asset utilization, which would result in lower gross margins.

We
      rely on the stability of the automotive industry for a significant portion
      of
      our sales.   

A
      significant portion of our sales are to customers within the automotive
      industry. For the periods ending December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, sales to
      customers in the automotive industry represented approximately 24.2%, 23.2%
      and
      24.0% of our net sales, respectively. If there was a destabilization of the
      automotive industry or a market shift away from our automotive customers, it
      may
      have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

We
      rely on the cyclical telecommunications networking industries; accordingly,
      the
      economic downturn in these industries has had, and may continue to have, a
      material adverse effect on our ability to forecast demand and production and
      to
      meet desired sales levels.        

A
      large
      percentage of our business is conducted with customers who are in the
      telecommunications and networking industries. These industries are characterized
      by intense competition, relatively short product life cycles and significant
      fluctuations in product demand. These industries are heavily dependent on the
      end markets they serve and therefore can be affected by the demand patterns
      of
      those markets. If there were to be a weakness in these industries, it would
      likely have a material adverse effect on our operating results.  

The
      completion of the sale of the wire harness business could expose us to the
      volatility of our other end markets.   

The
      wire
      harness business accounts for a substantial amount of our sales attributable
      to
      the consumer end market. Upon the completion of the sale of the wire harness
      business, our business will have less end market diversification. This change
      in
      end market diversification could result in greater exposure to the volatility
      of
      the other end markets we serve. If there was a downturn in one of the other
      end
      markets we serve, it may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

The
      electronics manufacturing services industry is subject to rapid technological
      change; our failure to respond timely or adequately to those changes may render
      our existing technology less competitive or obsolete, and our operating results
      may suffer.        

The
      market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing
      product platforms based on technology and continuing process development. The
      success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability to maintain
      and enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and
      services that meet changing customer needs, and successfully anticipate or
      respond to technological product platforms changes on a cost-effective and
      timely basis. There can be no assurance that we will effectively respond to
      the
      technological product requirements of the changing market, including having
      sufficient cash flow to make additional capital expenditures that may be
      required as a result of those changes. To the extent we are unable to respond
      to
      such technological product requirements, our operating results may suffer.

Our
      senior credit facility and the indenture for our senior subordinated notes
      impose restrictions that may restrict our ability to operate our
      business.        

Our
      senior credit facility and the indenture for our senior subordinated notes
      contain covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, incur
      additional debt, pay dividends, make investments, enter into transactions with
      affiliates, merge or consolidate with other entities and sell all or
      substantially all of our assets. Additionally, we are required by our senior
      credit facility to maintain certain financial ratios. A breach of any of these
      covenants could result in a default under the senior credit facility or the
      indenture, which could allow the lenders or the noteholders to declare all
      amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility or the indenture
      immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings
      when due, the lenders will have the right to proceed against the collateral
      granted to them under the senior credit facility, including our capital stock.
      We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that
      arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants
      under the senior credit facility and the indenture.  

We
      are controlled by affiliates of Hicks, Muse, Tate   Furst,
      Incorporated, whose interests may be different than
      yours.        

Approximately
        44.3% of the common stock of Viasystems Group, Inc., our parent company,
        is
        controlled by affiliates of Hicks, Muse, Tate   Furst, Incorporated
        ( HMTF ). In addition, a stockholders agreement among Viasystems Group, Inc.,
        affiliates of HMTF and other existing holders of our common stock provides
        that
        we and those stockholders have agreed to take all actions necessary, including
        voting the shares held by those stockholders, to elect five designees of
        HMTF to
        our board of directors. Accordingly, HMTF controls the election of a majority
        of
        our board of directors and the approval or disapproval of certain other matters
        requiring stockholder approval and, as a result, has significant influence
        over
        the direction of our management and policies. Using this influence, HMTF
        may
        take actions or make decisions that are not in the same interests of our
        other
        stockholders. In addition, HMTF is in the business of making investments
        in
        companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses
        that compete directly or indirectly with us or otherwise have business
        objectives that are not aligned with our business objectives.

We
      are a holding company with no operations of our own and depend on our
      subsidiaries for cash.        

Although
      our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries, none of our subsidiaries
      are obligated to make funds available to us for payment on our indebtedness
      or
      to pay dividends on our capital stock. Accordingly, our ability to distribute
      dividends to our stockholder is dependent on the earnings and the distribution
      of funds from our subsidiaries. The terms of our senior credit facility and
      the
      indenture governing our senior subordinated notes significantly restrict our
      subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us.
      Furthermore, our subsidiaries are permitted under the terms of our senior credit
      facility and other indebtedness to incur additional indebtedness that may
      severely restrict or prohibit the making of distributions, the payment of
      dividends or the making of loans by our subsidiaries to us.  

We
      are subject to environmental laws and regulations that expose us to potential
      financial liability.        

Our
      operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign
      environmental laws and regulations, which govern, among other things, the
      discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling,
      storage and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous materials and occupational
      health and safety. Violations of these laws can lead to material liability,
      fines or penalties. Compliance with these environmental laws is a major
      consideration in the fabrication of printed circuit boards because metals and
      other hazardous materials are used in the manufacturing process. In addition,
      it
      is possible that in the future new or more stringent requirements could be
      imposed. Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations impose
      liability on current or previous real property owners or operators for the
      cost
      of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous
      or
      toxic substances at the property. In addition, because we are a generator of
      hazardous wastes, we, along with any other person who arranges for the disposal
      of those wastes, may be subject to potential financial exposure for costs
      associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which such
      hazardous waste has been disposed, if those sites become contaminated. Liability
      may be imposed without regard to legality of the original actions and without
      regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such
      hazardous or toxic substances, and we could be responsible for payment of the
      full amount of the liability, whether or not any other responsible party is
      also
      liable.  

As
      a U.S. corporation with international operations, we are subject to the
      Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and a determination that we violated this act
      may
      affect our business and operations adversely.        

As
      a
      U.S. corporation, we and our subsidiaries are subject to the regulations
      imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which generally
      prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper
      payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business.
      Any determination that we or any of our subsidiaries have violated the FCPA
      could have a material adverse effect on us.  

We
      may be required to recognize additional impairment charges.

Pursuant
      to GAAP, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and
      other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. Disruptions to our
      business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected
      significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures
      and
      market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill
      and
      other asset impairments. Future impairment charges could substantially affect
      our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. In addition, such charges
      would reduce our consolidated net worth and our shareholder s equity, increasing
      our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio. Such reduction in consolidated net
      worth
      and increase in debt as a percentage of total capitalization could result in
      a
      default under our senior credit facility.  

We
      are subject to litigation that could adversely affect our operating
      results.   

If
      we
      became the subject of legal proceedings, our results may be affected by the
      outcome of such proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted
      with certainty. When appropriate and as required by GAAP, we estimate material
      loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of
      contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in
      light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time.
      Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and
      estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve
      against assets in our financial statements and could result in an adverse effect
      on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be
      recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages would be paid. For
      a
      description of current legal proceedings, see  Legal Proceedings .  

Degrading
      of our debt ratings would adversely affect us.    

Certain
      degrading by Moody's and S P could make it more difficult for us to obtain
      new financing if we so choose.  

Item
      1B. Unresolved Staff Comments    

Not
      Applicable.    

ITEM
      2.      Properties

In
      addition to our executive offices in St. Louis, Missouri, as of
      December 31, 2005, we operate 12 principal manufacturing and 3 principal
      distribution facilities, located in 3 different countries with a total area
      of
      approximately 5.1 million square feet. All of our domestic owned properties
      are
      pledged to secure our indebtedness under our senior credit facility. Our leased
      properties are leased for terms ranging from one to ten years. The leases for
      our Qingdao, China and two of our Juarez, Mexico properties will expire within
      the next two years. We anticipate that we will be able to renew those leases
      on
      terms that are not materially different than the current terms. 

Listed
      below are the principal manufacturing facilities we operated as of
      December 31, 2005: 

Location   

Size  

                   (Appx.  

                    Sq.
                  Ft.)   

Type  

                   of  

                    Interest   

Description
                  of Primary Products   

United
                  States  

Milwaukee,
                  Wisconsin 

305,000 

Leased 

Custom
                  metal enclosure fabrication 

Mexico  

Juarez,
                  Mexico 

69,000 

Leased 

Backpanel
                  assembly and full system assembly 

Juarez,
                  Mexico (1) 

178,000 

Leased 

Wire
                  harness and cable assembly and subassembly 

Juarez,
                  Mexico (1) 

54,000 

Leased 

Wire
                  harness and cable assembly 

Chihuahua,
                  Mexico (1) 

282,000 

Owned 

Wire
                  harness and cable assembly 

Chihuahua,
                  Mexico (1) 

253,000 

Leased 

Wire
                  harness and cable assembly 

Asia  

Guangzhou,
                  China (2) 

2,250,000 

Owned 

Printed
                  circuit board fabrication and wire harness 

Zhongshan,
                  China 

799,000 

Owned 

Printed
                  circuit board fabrication 

Shanghai,
                  China 

430,000 

Owned 

Backpanel
                  assembly, custom metal enclosure fabrication, and full system
                  assembly 

Shenzhen,
                  China 

286,000 

Leased 

Full
                  system assembly/custom metal enclosure fabrication 

Qingdao,
                  China 

54,000 

Leased 

Full
                  system assembly/cable
                  assembly 

Listed
      below are the principal distribution facilities we operated as of
      December 31, 2005: 

Location   

Size  

                   (Appx.  

                    Sq.
                  Ft.)   

Type  

                   of  

                    Interest   

Description
                  of Primary Product Distributed   

United
                  States  

El
                  Paso, Texas (1) 

96,000 

Leased 

Wire
                  harnesses and cable assemblies 

El
                  Paso, Texas 

8,000 

Leased 

Electromechanical
                  solutions, backpanel assembly and full system assembly 

Asia  

Hong
                  Kong 

53,000 

Owned 

PCBs,
                  backpanel assemblies, full system assemblies, and wire harnesses
                  and cable
                  assemblies 

__________ 

(1)      This
      facility would be included in the sale of our wire harness business to
      Electrical Components International Holdings Company. See  Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Recent
      Developments   . 

(2)     In
      Guangzhou, we have a campus which we consider as two separate facilities. One
      facility is dedicated to printed circuit board fabrication (2,180,000 sq. ft.)
      and the other to wire harness production (70,000 sq. ft.). The wire harness
      production, which would be included in the sale of our wire harness business
      to
      Electrical Components International Holdings Company, will move to a newly
      leased facility that is currently under construction in Futian, China during
      the
      third quarter of 2006. 

In
      addition to the facilities listed above, at December 31, 2005, we
      maintained several engineering, customer service, sales and marketing and other
      facilities throughout North America, Europe and Asia, all of which are
      leased. 

ITEM
      3.      Legal
      Proceedings         

On
      October 1, 2002, we and Group filed voluntary petitions for relief under
      chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States
      Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York seeking court
      supervision of our restructuring efforts and confirmation of our plan of
      reorganization. The plan of reorganization was confirmed on January 14,
      2003 and we emerged from bankruptcy on January 31, 2003.  

We
      have
      certain bankruptcy claims that remain unsettled and are subject to ongoing
      negotiations and litigation. The aggregate amount of the outstanding claims
      is
      $1.0 million. To the extent that these claims become allowed claims, the payment
      of these claims will be funded by the issuance of subordinated promissory notes
      pursuant to the terms of the plan of reorganization. 

We
      are
      presently involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course
      of our business operations, including employment matters and contract claims
      as
      well as in connection with the Chapter 11 claims reconciliation process
      described above. We believe that any liability with respect to these proceedings
      will not be material in the aggregate to our consolidated financial position,
      results of operations or cash flow. 

ITEM
      4.      Submission
      Of Matters To A Vote Of Security Holders         

No
      matters were submitted to a vote of security holders in the fourth quarter
      of
      2005. 

PART
      II   

ITEM
      5.      Market
      For The Registrant's Common Stock And Related Stockholder
      Matters.    

All
      of
      our outstanding common stock is held by Group, and accordingly, there is no
      established public trading market for our common stock. We have paid no
      dividends since inception, and our ability to pay dividends is limited by the
      terms of certain agreements related to our indebtedness. 

ITEM
      6.      Selected
      Financial Data         

The
      selected financial and other data below for the years ended December 31,
      2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, present consolidated financial information
      of
      Viasystems and its Subsidiaries and have been derived from our audited
      consolidated financial statements.  

You
      should read the selected historical consolidated financial data set forth below
      in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
      and Results of Operations" and our consolidated financial statements and the
      notes thereto included elsewhere in this document. 

__________ 

(1)     
             
                In
                connection with the reorganization, we terminated our 1997 and 2001
                stock
                option plans and adopted our 2003 stock option plan. The options
                we have
                issued under the 2003 stock option plan have a fixed exercise price
                of
                $12.63 per share and vest one-third at the grant date, one-third
                on the
                24-month anniversary of the grant date, and one-third on the 36-month
                anniversary of the grant date. As a result of the termination of
                the 1997
                and 2001 stock option plans and the adoption of the 2003 stock option
                plan, under provision of FIN No. 44,    Accounting
                for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation an Interpretation
                of
                APB Opinion No. 25   ,
                certain options issued under the 2003 stock option plan are treated
                as
                 variable  options. As a result we recorded non-cash compensation expense
                of $1,383 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003. Effective
                January 1, 2004, we adopted SFAS No. 123,    Accounting
                for Stock-Based Compensation.  

(2)    
             
                In
                2000, we transferred nine European printed circuit board facilities
                to
                European PCB Group in consideration of subordinated notes payable
                to us.
                Represents charges relating to the write-off of such subordinated
                notes
                due from European PCB Group. European PCB Group has disposed of
                substantially all of its assets and is in the process of being liquidated.
                Accordingly, we compared the carrying amounts to the undiscounted
                expected
                future cash flows and concluded the amounts due were
                impaired. 

(3)    
             
                Represents
                impairment losses related to the write-off of long-lived assets in
                accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121,
                "Accounting for the impairment of long-lived assets and for long-lived
                assets to be disposed of" and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
                No. 144 "Accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived
                assets,"
                as applicable. In addition, due to the industry downturn, numerous
                restructuring charges were taken to downsize and close facilities.
                See
                "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
                Results
                of Operations   Restructuring, Impairment Charges and Losses on Disposal
                of Business" and Note 11 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated
                financial statements. 

(4)    
             
                The
                goodwill impairment recognized in 2001 is attributable to $129,100
                of
                goodwill impairment related to certain EMS acquisitions which were
                deemed
                impaired when assessing the carrying value of long-lived assets.
                The
                goodwill impairment recognized in 2002 is attributable to $13,400
                of
                goodwill impairment recognized in our North American PCB reporting
                unit,
                $10,100 goodwill impairment recognition in our Asian EMS reporting
                unit
                and a $13,200 recognition of goodwill impairment in our North American
                EMS
                reporting unit. The goodwill impairment recognized in 2003 is attributable
                to $22,700 goodwill impairment recognition in our European PCB
                facility. 

(5)    
             
                During
                2002, in connection with the continued economic downturn, we sold
                six
                businesses, including our joint venture interest, and finalized the
                dispositions of several closed facilities. See "Management's Discussion
                and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
                Restructuring, Impairment Charges and Losses on Dispositions of
                Businesses" and Note 11 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated
                financial statements. 

(6)    
             
                Reorganization
                expenses consisted primarily of professional and bank fees and expenses
                related to the issuance of a promissory note to the Secretary of
                State for
                Trade and Industry of the United Kingdom incurred in conjunction
                with the
                reorganization. In May 2004, this promissory note was discharged in
                full as a result of proceeds received by the Secretary of State for
                Trade
                and Industry of the United Kingdom from the liquidation of Viasystems
                Tyneside Limited, resulting in a gain of
                $9,817. 

(7)    
             
                In
                connection with the reorganization, we recorded a loss from debt
                forgiveness of $1,517 in respect to allowed senior subordinated note
                claims. 

(8)    
             
                For
                purposes of calculating the deficiency of earnings to cover fixed
                charges,
                "earnings" represent earnings before income taxes plus fixed charges.
                "Fixed charges" consist of interest on all indebtedness, amortization
                of
                deferred financing costs and the portion (approximately 1/3) of rental
                expenses that management believes is representative of the interest
                component of rent expense. 

ITEM
      7.      Management's
      Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of
      Operations    

The
      following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of
      operations covers certain periods prior to our emergence from bankruptcy on
      January 31, 2003. Accordingly, the discussion and analysis of historical periods
      prior to that date does not reflect our new capital structure. You should read
      the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations
      with "Selected Financial Data" and our consolidated financial statements and
      related notes included elsewhere in this document. This discussion contains
      forward-looking statements about our markets, the demand for our products and
      services and our future results. We based these statements on assumptions that
      we consider reasonable. Actual results may differ materially from those
      suggested by our forward-looking statements for various reasons including those
      discussed in Part I  Cautionary Statements Concerning Forward-Looking
      Statements .  

General  

We
      are a
      leading worldwide provider of complex multi-layer printed circuit boards (PCBs),
      wire harnesses and electro-mechanical solutions (EMS). The products we
      manufacture include, or can be found in, a wide array of products including
      automotive dash panels and control modules, major household appliances, data
      networking equipment, telecommunications switching equipment and a variety
      of
      complex medical and technical instruments. We currently have 12 manufacturing
      facilities, including 11 manufacturing sites in China and Mexico to take
      advantage of low cost, high quality manufacturing environments. In addition,
      in
      order to support our customers  local needs we have maintained engineering and
      customer service centers in the Netherlands, Canada, England, China, Mexico
      and
      the United States. 

We
      are a
      supplier to over 200 manufacturers of original equipment in numerous end
      markets, including industry leaders Alcatel SA, Bosch Group, Delphi Corporation,
      AB Electrolux, EMC Corporation, General Electric Company, Huawei Technologies
      Co
      Ltd., KIS Photo-Me Group, Lucent Technologies, Inc., Maytag Corporation, Otis
      Elevator Company, Rockwell Automation, Inc., Siemens AG, Sun Microsystems,
      Inc.,
      Tellabs, Inc., and Whirlpool Corporation. We have also forged strategic
      alliances with leading contract manufacturers such as Celestica, Inc. and
      Solectron Corporation. We supply PCBs to our contract manufacturing partners
      through these strategic alliances. 

Recent
      Developments  

On
      March
      21, 2006, we entered into an agreement to sell our wire harness business to
      Electrical Components International Holdings Company ( ECI ), a newly formed
      affiliate of Francisco Partners, L.P., a private equity firm. Under the terms
      of
      the stock purchase agreement, ECI will purchase all of the outstanding capital
      stock of Wire Harness Industries, Inc., the entity through which we conduct
      the
      wire harness business, for approximately $320 million. The closing, which is
      subject to certain conditions, including obtaining regulatory and third party
      consents or approvals, is expected to be consummated by the end of the second
      calendar quarter 2006. 

The
      sale
      will result in the disposition of most of our operations in Mexico and a small
      portion of our China operations, and will result in the reduction of our
      employee head count, as of December 31, 2005, from 25,738 to 18,642. Set
      forth below is summary balance sheet and income statement data (in thousands)
      for the wire harness business for the three years ended December 31,
      2005. 

The
      estimated net cash proceeds from the sale of our wire harness business of
      approximately $310 million will be applied to the repayment of all of our
      outstanding bank debt, with the remainder to be held for reinvestment in our
      ongoing businesses.  

Critical
      Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Our
      discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations
      are
      based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared
      in
      accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires
      us
      to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts
      of
      assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses and related disclosure of contingent
      assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis we evaluate our estimates,
      including: allowance for bad debts; valuation and recoverability of inventory;
      amortization periods; recoverability of long-term assets, intangible assets
      and
      goodwill; income taxes; and litigation. We base our estimates on historical
      experience and on various other assumptions which we believe to be reasonable
      under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making
      judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
      readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these
      estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 

Revenue
      Recognition   

The
      Company recognizes revenue when all of the following criteria are satisfied:
      persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; risk of loss and title transfer
      to
      the customer; the price is fixed and determinable; and collectibility is
      reasonably assured. Sales and related costs of goods sold are included in income
      when goods are shipped to the customer in accordance with the delivery terms,
      except in the case of vendor managed inventory arrangements, whereby sales
      and
      the related costs of goods sold are included in income when possession of goods
      is taken by the customer. All services are performed prior to invoicing
      customers for any products manufactured by the Company. Reserves for product
      returns are recorded based on historical trend rates at the time of
      sale. 

Accounts
      Receivable   

Accounts
      receivable balances represent customer trade receivables generated from the
      Company s operations. To reduce the potential for credit risk, the Company
      evaluates the collectibility of customer balances based on a combination of
      factors but does not generally require significant collateral. The Company
      regularly analyzes significant customer balances, and, when it becomes evident
      a
      specific customer will be unable to meet its financial obligations to the
      Company for reasons including, but not limited to, bankruptcy filings or
      deterioration in the customer s operating results or financial position, a
      specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded to reduce the related
      receivable to the amount that is believed reasonably collectible. The Company
      also records an allowance for doubtful accounts for all other customers based
      on
      a variety of factors including the length of time the receivables are past
      due,
      the financial health of the customer and historical experiences. If
      circumstances related to specific customers change, estimates of the
      recoverability of receivables could be further adjusted. 

Inventories   

Inventories
      are stated at the lower of cost (valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO)
      or
      last-in, first-out (LIFO) method) or market. Cost includes raw materials, labor
      and manufacturing overhead. LIFO is utilized for certain wire harness and
      assembly inventories. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, the
      percentage of consolidated net inventories valued at LIFO was 32% and 31%,
      respectively. (See Note 21 Subsequent Events.) 

Inventories
      would have decreased by approximately $4,454 and $4,266 at December 31,
      2004 and 2005, respectively, had the FIFO method been used to determine
      purchased inventory cost of all inventories. During 2005, certain inventory
      quantity reductions caused a liquidation of LIFO inventory values. The
      liquidation increased net loss by $275 (net of $0.00 income taxes). 

Valuation
      of Goodwill and other Intangible Assets   

We
      assess
      the impairment of goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets
      annually, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
      carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could
      trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, the
      following: 

significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future
      operating results; 

significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the
      strategy for our overall business; and 

significant negative industry or economic trends.  

When
      we
      determine that the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets may
      not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above
      indicators of impairment, we measure any impairment based on a projected
      discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by us to be
      commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. 

For
      the
      year ended 2003, we recognized impairment in our European PCB reporting unit
      of
      $22.7 million. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, we
      recognized no goodwill impairment. 

Income
      Taxes   

We
      record
      a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that
      we
      believe is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future
      taxable income and ongoing prudent, feasible tax planning strategies in
      assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event we were to
      determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred
      tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the net deferred tax assets would
      be
      charged to income in the period such determination was made. Similarly, should
      we determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the
      future in excess of its net recorded amount, an adjustment to the net deferred
      tax asset would increase income in the period such determination was
      made. 

For
      the
      years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, we had a valuation allowance
      of $707.3 million, $398.9 million and $466.1 million, respectively. 

Foreign
      Currency Risk    

We
      conduct our business in various regions of the world, and export and import
      products to and from several countries. Our operations may, therefore, be
      subject to volatility because of currency fluctuations. A significant portion
      of
      our expenses and some of our sales are frequently denominated in local
      currencies, and results of operations may be affected adversely as currency
      fluctuations affect our product prices and operating costs or those of our
      competitors. From time to time, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts
      to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations. We do not
      engage in hedging transactions for speculative investment reasons. Our hedging
      operations historically have not been material, and gains or losses from these
      operations have not been material to our cash flows, financial position or
      results from operations. There can be no assurance that our hedging operations
      will eliminate or substantially reduce risks associated with fluctuating
      currencies. 

Restructuring,
      Impairment Charges and Losses on the Dispositions of
      Businesses  

In
      2003,
      our facility in Portland, Oregon was sold and three facilities were either
      downsized or incurred impairment charges (Montreal, Canada (2 facilities),
      Echt,
      the Netherlands, Coventry, England, and Richmond, Virginia) at a cost of $7.8
      million. 

In
      2004,
      two facilities were downsized and incurred restructuring and impairment charges
      (Montreal, Canada and Echt, the Netherlands) at a cost of $6.4
      million. 

In
      2005,
      four facilities were closed and incurred restructuring and impairment charges
      (Montreal, Canada (2 facilities), Echt, the Netherlands and Mishawaka,
      Indiana). 

Below
      is
      a table summarizing restructuring and impairment charges and losses on the
      dispositions of businesses for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and
      2005. A detailed discussion of these restructuring and impairment charges and
      losses on the disposals of business is set forth in our consolidated financial
      statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this
      document. 

The
      Reorganization  

The
      telecommunications and networking industries experienced a dramatic economic
      downturn during 2001 and 2002, which had a significant adverse impact on our
      sales and cash flow, and ultimately impeded our ability to service our long-term
      debt. As a consequence, after reviewing our business and prospects, our board
      of
      directors concluded that the long-term interests of our business and of our
      creditors and equity holders would be best served by a consensual restructuring
      implemented under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code for the purpose of reducing
      our debt and strengthening our balance sheet. On October 1, 2002, we filed
      a
      consensual pre-packaged plan of reorganization under chapter 11 of the
      Bankruptcy Code, which was confirmed on January 14, 2003, and was consummated
      on
      January 31, 2003. In connection with our reorganization, we extinguished
      approximately $716.6 million of indebtedness in exchange for 4.3 million shares
      of Group senior convertible preferred stock with an aggregate liquidation
      preference of $53.7 million, 1.2 million shares of Group junior preferred stock
      with an aggregate liquidation preference of $120.1 million and 20.7 million
      shares of Group common stock. Also in connection with our reorganization, all
      of
      the then outstanding Group preferred stock and common stock was cancelled,
      in
      the case of the preferred stock, in exchange for warrants to purchase Group
      common stock. 

Our
      senior secured indebtedness was restructured in connection with our
      reorganization under a new senior credit facility providing for term loans
      of
      approximately $447.9 million (subsequently paid down in 2003; with the issuance
      of the $200 million 10 % Senior Subordinated Notes) and revolving credit loans
      of approximately $51.3 million. See Note 10 in the accompanying notes to the
      consolidated financial statements. 

Results
      of Operations  

The
      following table sets forth statement of operations data expressed as a
      percentage of net sales for the periods indicated: 

Year
      Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31,
      2005   

Net
      sales
      for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $948.5 million, representing a
      $47.1 million, or 5.2% increase, over net sales for the year ended
      December 31, 2004. This increase was primarily a result of the installation
      of additional capacity in our China printed circuit board operations and
      increased market share with certain customers.  

Sales
      of
      printed circuit boards produced in China, including sales to our own assembly
      operations, increased by approximately $76.2 million, or 22.2%, as a result
      of
      increased demand from certain existing customers, our migration of business
      from
      western world manufacturing sites and the installation of additional capacity.
      Sales of our assembly services and products increased by approximately $9.5
      million, or 1.9%, due to increased market share with select customers that
      purchase our wire harnesses and cable assemblies, in addition to increased
      customer demands for existing and new programs within our Asian
      electro-mechanical solutions facilities. 

On
      February 25, 2005, we announced our intent to close our North American and
      European printed circuit board facilities located in Montreal, Canada and Echt,
      the Netherlands, respectively, and final product shipments from both sites
      were
      made early in the third quarter of 2005. For the year ended December 31,
      2005, sales of printed circuit boards produced in our western world operations
      totaled $36.7 million compared to $75.4 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2004, representing a decrease of $38.7 million, or 51.3%. On
      March 21, 2006, we entered into an agreement to sell our wire harness business.
      For the year ended December 31, 2005, sales of the wire harness business
      were $295.7 million compared to $271.3 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2004, representing an increase of $24.4 million, or 9.0%. If
      we had excluded the western world printed circuit board facilities and the
      wire
      harness business from sales for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005,
      we would have reported net sales of $554.7 million and $616.1 million,
      respectively. Excluding the western world printed circuit board operations
      and
      the wire harness business, our sales increased $61.4 million, or 11.1% for
      the
      year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31,
      2004.  

Cost
      of
      goods sold for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $788.8 million, or 83.2%
      of
      net sales, compared to $728.2 million or 80.8% of net sales for the year ended
      December 31, 2004. As a percent of net sales, direct and indirect labor costs
      decreased by approximately 0.8% for the year ended December 31, 2005,
      compared to 2004, in large part as a result of our transfer of production from
      western world sites to our lower cost sites in China. However, our labor cost
      savings were more than offset by net increases in direct and indirect materials
      costs as a percentage of net sales of approximately 3.0% for the year ended
      December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. The change in materials costs as a percent
      of net sales related primarily (approximately 2.4%) to commodity costs for
      petroleum products and metals used in our manufacturing processes, and in part
      (approximately 0.6%) to increased scrap experience and materials losses
      resulting from our site closures and production transfers during
      2005. 

Selling,
      general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005
      increased by $3.9 million, from $78.0 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2004, to $81.9 million for the year ended December 31,
      2005. As a percent of sales, these cost decreased 0.1%. The dollar increase
      was
      primarily due to increased freight costs of $4.1 million, regular inflation
      of
      $2.3 million, Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 preparation costs of $1.7 million
      and
      other costs of $0.4 million, partially offset by a lower incentive compensation
      expense of $4.4 million.  

Stock
      compensation expense (non-cash) increased by $3.0 million, from $3.8 million
      for
      the year ended December 31, 2004to $6.8 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2005. The difference in the expense recognized is attributable
      to when options were issued under the 2003 stock option plan, as compared to
      when options vest.  

Depreciation
      and amortization increased $3.2 million, from $49.8 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2004, to $53.0 million for the year ended December 31,
      2005. The increase is attributable to additional capital investment in property,
      plant and equipment in our China printed circuit board facilities over recent
      periods partially offset by reductions in depreciation at our closed western
      world printed circuit board operations.  

Restructuring
      and impairment expenses totaled $27.9 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2005. For a more detailed analysis of these activities, see
      Note 11 in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
      statements. 

Interest
      expense increased $3.0 million, from $37.8 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2004, to $40.8 million for the year ended December 31,
      2005. The increase is due to the full year effect of the additional debt
      associated with the third amendment to the 2003 Credit Agreement and increased
      interest rates over the year ended December 31, 2004. 

Amortization
      of deferred financing costs increased $0.3 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2005, compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. This
      increase was due to the amortization of deferred financing fees incurred with
      cost associated with the October 7, 2004 and the April 22, 2005 amendments
      to
      the credit agreement.  

Other
      expense (income), net for the year ended December 31, 2005 is made up of
      a) $10.9 million of a net translation adjustment transferred as a
      result of the reversal of cumulative translation adjustments required in
      connection with the liquidation of foreign investments (from the closure of
      the
      Montreal, Canada and Echt, the Netherlands printed circuit board operations),
      b) $1.5 million related to the monitoring and oversight agreement (see
      Note 20 in the accompanying notes to the Financial Statements),
      c) $0.7 million of foreign currency translation and d) ($0.3) of
      other. 

Income
      taxes for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $16.0 million compared to
      $6.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This relates primarily
      to provisions for foreign tax requirements measured as of December 31,
      2005. 

Year
      Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31,
      2004   

Net
      sales
      for the year ended December 31, 2004 were $901.4 million, representing a
      $149.9 million, or 19.9% increase, from the year ended December 31, 2003.
      The increase was primarily a result of the overall market recovery and increased
      market share with select customers. Sales of China printed circuit boards
      increased $55.9 million, or 19.4%, as a result of greater product demand and
      the
      installation of additional capacity. Sales of western world printed circuit
      boards decreased $7.2 million, or 6.8% due to reduced market demand in the
      western world printed circuit board market primarily as a result of
      migration of manufacturing to China. Sales of Assembly increased $90.0 million,
      or 29.3% due to greater product demand and additional product wins. The future
      mix of business is dependent upon available capacity, demand for our customer s
      end products and individual program wins across all customers.  

Cost
      of
      goods sold for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $728.2 million, or
      80.8% of net sales, compared to $597.5 million, or 79.5% of net sales, for
      the
      year ended December 31, 2003. Cost of goods sold as a percent of net sales
      increased primarily as a result of higher printed circuit board material
      costs, higher scrap rates in our western world printed circuit
      board fabrication facilities and the negative effect of the strengthening
      of the Canadian Dollar and Euro. 

Selling,
      general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004
      increased by $13.9 million, from $64.1 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2003, to $78.0 million for the year ended December 31,
      2004. These costs increased due to the overall growth of the
      Company. 

Depreciation
      and amortization decreased $19.3 million, from $69.1 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2003, to $49.8 million for the year ended December 31,
      2004. This decrease was primarily due to the fixed asset impairments we
      recognized during 2003 from the application of SFAS 144. 

Interest
      expense increased $8.1 million, from $29.7 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2003, to $37.8 million for the year ended December 31,
      2004. This increase in interest expense was due to our increased indebtedness
      with the issuance of the senior subordinated notes due 2011 in late 2003 and
      partially offset by our ability to negotiate lower interest rates on our senior
      credit facility. 

Amortization
      of deferred financing costs increased $1.2 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2004, compared to the year ended December 31, 2003. This
      increase was due to the amortization of deferred financing fees incurred with
      the issuance of the senior subordinated notes due 2001.  

Cash
      Flow   

Net
      cash
      provided by operating activities was $11.6 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2005, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of
      $65.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The change in operating
      cash flow was primarily due to the increase in restructuring and impairment
      charges from the closure of our western world printed circuit board operations
      and the increases in material costs, energy costs and
      shipping costs. 

Net
      cash
      used in investing activities was $85.0 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2005, compared to $71.9 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2004 The increase in 2005 is attributable to the Company s
      capital expansion in China.  

Net
      cash
      used by financing activities was $3.2 million for the year ended
      December 31, 2005, compared to net cash provided in financing activities of
      $56.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The net cash used by
      financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2005, was primarily
      related to the scheduled principal payments under the 2003 Credit Agreement
      while the net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended
      December 31, 2004, related principally to equity proceeds from the sale of
      additional shares of Group s common stock that was contributed to us and
      additional proceeds from amending the 2003 Credit Agreement.  

Financing
      Arrangements  

Concurrently
      with the consummation of our reorganization, we entered into a credit agreement
      among JPMorgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent, and the several banks and
      financial institutions party thereto, which provides for a senior credit
      facility consisting of a $69.4 million three-and-one-half year amortizing
      tranche A term loan facility (subsequently paid down in 2003, with the issuance
      of the $200 million 10 % Senior Subordinated Notes), a $378.5 million,
      five-and-one-half year amortizing tranche B term loan facility (subsequently
      paid down in 2003; see below) and a five year revolving credit facility in
      an
      amount of $51.3 million (including, as a sub-facility of the revolving credit
      facility, a $15 million letter of credit facility).  

In
      December 2003, we completed an offering of $200 million of 10 % Senior
      Subordinated Notes due 2011. The proceeds from this offering were used to repay
      in full approximately $69.4 million outstanding under the tranche A term loan
      facility and to repay approximately $136.1 million of the tranche B term loan
      facility. In connection with the consummation of the debt offering, we were
      able
      to amend the terms of our senior credit facility.  

On
      October 7, 2004, Group, as guarantor, and Viasystems, as borrower, amended
      the
      2003 Credit Agreement to provide for a new $265 million term loan facility
      (new
 Tranche B Term Loan ). The proceeds from the New Tranche B Term Loan were used
      to extinguish the net remaining balance then outstanding under the original
      Tranche B Term Loan.  

On
      October 7, 2004, Group completed a Rights Offering whereby Group sold 5,555,555
      shares of common stock at $9.00 per share to current holders of Group s common
      stock. The proceeds, net of issuance costs, of $47.1 million, were contributed
      to the Company. The proceeds from this offering were used for general working
      capital purposes and in the expansion of our printed circuit board operations
      in
      China.  

In
      conjunction with the Company s plan of reorganization approved by the Bankruptcy
      Court, a  12 million (approximately $18 million) loan guaranteed by the Company
      was cancelled and in exchange the Department of Trade and Industry (the  DTI )
      received a note (the  DTI Note ) in an amount equal to  9 million with interest
      payable semi-annually in cash on a current basis at an annual interest rate
      of
      three percent for periods up to September 30, 2008 and at an annual interest
      rate equal to the Bank of England Base Rate plus two percent for periods
      thereafter and principal payments from December 31, 2008 through
      December 31, 2010. In May 2004, the DTI Note was discharged in full as a
      result of proceeds received by the DTI from the liquidation of Viasystems
      Tyneside Limited, resulting in a gain of $9,798.  

On
      April
      22, 2005, we executed a fourth amendment of our 2003 Credit Agreement. This
      amendment, among other items, provides an add-back of up to $26.1 million of
      cash restructuring charges in the definition of EBITDA (as defined in the 2003
      Credit Agreement). In addition, the amendment allows us to exclude the operating
      results of Echt and Canada from our covenant calculations.  

In
      the
      first quarter of 2006, we borrowed an additional $20 million from our revolving
      credit facility under the 2003 Credit Agreement for general operating purposes
      bringing our current borrowings, as of March 31, 2006, pursuant to the 2003
      Credit Agreement to $282.4 million. 

On
      March
      21, 2006, we entered into an agreement to sell our wire harness business to
      Electrical Components International Holdings Company ( ECI ), a newly formed
      affiliate of Francisco Partners, L.P., a private equity firm. Under the terms
      of
      the stock purchase agreement, ECI will purchase all of the outstanding capital
      stock of Wire Harness Industries, Inc., the entity through which we conduct
      the
      wire harness business, for approximately $320 million, subject to a working
      capital adjustment and certain other adjustments. The closing, which is subject
      to certain conditions, including obtaining regulatory and third party consents
      or approvals, is expected to be consummated by the end of the second calendar
      quarter 2006. 

The
      estimated net cash proceeds from the sale of our wire harness business of
      approximately $310 million will be applied to the repayment of all of our
      outstanding bank debt, with the remainder to be held for reinvestment in our
      ongoing businesses.  

Off
      Balance Sheet Arrangements  

None. 

Liquidity  

We
      had
      cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005,
      of $112.9 million and $35.9 million, respectively. We had no outstanding balance
      under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2004 or
      December 31, 2005. In the first quarter of 2006, we borrowed $20
      million from our revolving credit facility under the 2003 Credit Agreement
      for
      general operating purposes bringing our current borrowings, as of March 31,
      2006, pursuant to the 2003 Credit Agreement to $282.4 million. 

We
      anticipate making capital expenditures of approximately $80 to $85 million
      (of
      which approximately $14 million relates to the wire harness business in 2006.)
      We believe that cash flow from operations, cash proceeds from property held
      for
      sale, available cash on hand and the cash available from our revolving credit
      facility and cash proceeds from the sale of the wire harness business will
      be
      sufficient to fund our capital expenditures and other currently anticipated
      cash
      needs. The estimated net cash proceeds from the sale of our wire harness
      business of approximately $310 million will be first applied to the repayment
      of
      all of our outstanding bank debt with the remainder to be held for reinvestment
      in our ongoing businesses. We anticipate that we will enter into a new or
      amended credit facility to provide us with liquidity for operational
      flexibility. 

Our
      ability to meet our cash needs through cash generated by our operating
      activities will depend on the demand for our products, as well as general
      economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond
      our
      control. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate
      sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings
      and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future
      borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility and our
      ability to raise third party financing in an amount sufficient to enable us
      to
      pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to
      refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness.  

The
      following table provides our material debt, capital lease and operating lease
      payments as of December 31, 2005: 

(a)    
             
                In
                the first quarter of 2006, we borrowed $20 million from our revolving
                credit facility under the 2003 Credit Agreement bringing our current
                borrowings, as of March 31, 2006, pursuant to the 2003 Credit Agreement
                to
                $282.4 million. The revolving portion of the 2003 Credit Agreement
                expires
                in January 2008; however, we expect that upon the consummation of
                the sale
                of our wire harness business, all outstanding balances of the 2003
                Credit
                Agreement will be paid off. 

(b)    
             
                Assuming
                a 9.0% interest rate. 

Net
      Operating Losses  

For
      United States federal income tax purposes we had net operating loss
      carryforwards, or NOLs, amounting to approximately $803.3 million as of
      December 31, 2005. These NOLs expire in 2019 through 2025 if not utilized
      before then to offset taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code
      of 1986, as amended, and regulations issued thereunder impose limitations on
      the
      ability of corporations to use NOLs if the corporation experiences more that
      a
      50% change in ownership during certain periods. We believe an ownership change
      occurred in January 2003 in connection with the reorganization. As a
      consequence, the utilization of our NOLs is limited pursuant to Section 382
      to
      approximately $19.7 million per year, with any unused portion carried over
      to
      succeeding years. Further changes in ownership in future periods could
      substantially restrict our ability to utilize our tax net operating loss
      carryforwards. In addition, as of December 31, 2005 we had NOLs of $23.8
      million in Hong Kong, $0.3 million in China, $27.6 million in the United
      Kingdom, $68.9 million in Luxembourg, $128.3 million in Canada and $15.9 million
      in the Netherlands. These NOLs carry forward indefinitely, except for the
      Canadian NOLs which expire in 2007 through 2012. 

Backlog  

We
      estimate that our backlog of unfilled orders as of December 31, 2004 and
      2005 was approximately $167.8 million and $193.9 million, respectively. Included
      in the December 31, 2005, backlog is $71.2 million related to the wire
      harness business. On March 21, 2006, we entered into an agreement to sell our
      wire harness business. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations Recent Developments . The increase in
      backlog from December 31, 2004, was due to increased customer demand at our
      Asian printed circuit board facilities and at our Chinese
      electro-mechanical solutions facilities. Because unfilled orders may be
      cancelled prior to delivery, the backlog outstanding at any point in time is
      not
      necessarily indicative of the level of business to be expected in the ensuing
      period. 

Recently
      Issued Accounting Pronouncements   

In
      June
      2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,    Accounting
      Changes and Error Corrections; a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS
      No.
      3   .
      SFAS
      No. 154, among other items, requires an entity to provide specific details
      in
      the footnotes to the financial statements when an entity has a change in
      accounting principle, change in accounting estimate or correction of an error
      in
      previously issued financial statements. Adoption of SFAS No. 154 is required
      for
      all fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005, with early adoption
      permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 154 to have
      an
      impact on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations
      or cash flows. 

In
      March
      2005, the FASB issued Staff Position ( FSP ) No. FIN 46(R)-5. FSP No. FIN
      46(R)-5 addresses whether a reporting enterprise should consider whether it
      holds an implicit variable interest in a variable interest entity ( VIE ) or
      potential VIE when specific conditions exist. The Company does not have
      interests in structures commonly referred to as VIEs. Adoption of FSP No.
      FIN46(R)-5 is required for all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005,
      with
      early adoption permitted. Adoption of FSP No. FIN 46(R)-5 will not have an
      impact on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations
      or cash flows. 

In
      March
      2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 107. SAB No. 107
      expresses views of the staff regarding the interaction between SFAS No. 123(R)
      (revised 2004),    Share-Based
      Payment   
      and
      certain SEC rules and regulations. In particular, SAB No. 107 provides guidance
      related to share-based payment transactions with non-employees, the transition
      from nonpublic to public entity status, valuation methods, the accounting for
      certain redeemable financial instruments issued under share-based payment
      arrangements, the classification of compensation expense and non-GAAP financial
      measures. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 on January 1,
      2004.
      Adoption of SAB No. 107 is required for all fiscal years beginning after
      December 15, 2005, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating
      what
      effect the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) or SAB No. 107 will have on its
      consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
      flows. 

Financial
      Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 47,    Accounting
      for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   
      (as
      interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143) was issued in March 2005. This
      Interpretation provides clarification with respect to the timing of liability
      recognition for legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible
      long-lived assets when the timing and/or method of settlement of the obligation
      is conditional on a future event. This Interpretation requires that the fair
      value of a liability for a conditional asset retirement obligation be recognized
      in the period in which it occurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can
      be
      made. We have determined that conditional legal obligations do not exist for
      any
      of our worldwide owned and leased facilities. This is primarily due to our
      large
      international presence (95.0% of net sales) being in the low cost areas of
      the
      world, whereby, the local jurisdictions do not have the environment laws and
      regulations that pertain to our facilities and manufacturing
      operations. 

In
      November 2004 (revised in December 2004), the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,
   Inventory
      Costs -- an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4   
      to be
      effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after
      June
      15, 2005, with early adoption permitted. SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in
      Accounting Research Bulleting ( ARB ) No. 43, Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to
      clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight,
      handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). Paragraph 5 of ARB 43, Chapter
      4, previously stated that  . . . under some circumstances, items such as idle
      facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs
      may
      be so abnormal as to require treatment as current period charges. . . .  SFAS
      No. 151 requires those items be recognized as current period charges regardless
      of whether they meet the criterion of  so abnormal.  In addition, FAS No. 151
      requires the allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion
      be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 51 shall
      be effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after
      June 15, 2005. Earlier application is permitted for inventory costs incurred
      during fiscal years beginning after November 2004. The adoption of SFAS No.
      151
      will not have an impact on the financial position or results of operations,
      as
      the Company does not have any  abnormal  costs that are currently included in
      inventory. 

Related
      Party Transactions  

Purchases
      from International Wire Group, Inc.   

In
      March 2000, we acquired the wire harness business of International Wire
      Group, Inc. ( International Wire ), which at the time was an affiliate of HMTF.
      Our wire harness operations, in accordance with a supply agreement entered
      into
      in connection with our acquisition of the wire harness business, purchased
      an
      aggregate of $42.1 million of insulated wire products from International Wire
      in
      the year ended December 31, 2005. The terms of the supply agreement are
      consistent with terms prevailing in an arms length transaction. The negotiated
      terms of the supply agreement include the pricing, purchase commitment, payment,
      quality and liability terms. On December 31, 2005, the supply agreement
      with International Wire expired by its terms. On March 21, 2006, we entered
      into
      an agreement to sell our wire harness business. See  Management s Discussion and
      Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Recent
      Developments . 

Mr.
      Hamwee and Mr. Cummings, both members of our board of directors, are affiliates
      of GSCP (NJ), Inc. ( GSC ). GSC owns 27.0% of Group s outstanding common stock
      and 16.9% of International Wire Mr. Hamwee is a member of the Board of Directors
      of International Wire. As of November 2004, HMTF was no longer affiliated with
      International Wire. 

Under
      the
      terms of the purchase agreement, International Wire agreed to indemnify us
      for
      various matters associated with the pre-acquisition operations of the wire
      harness business, including product liability claims related to hose assemblies
      manufactured by one of the acquired companies through 1997. Certain claims
      have
      been asserted against International Wire by insurers as subrogees of their
      insured homeowners with respect to property damages arising from the failure
      of
      allegedly defective washing machine hose assemblies manufactured by one of
      the
      acquired companies. International Wire and its insurers to date have defended
      and/or settled all such claims consistent with their indemnity obligations.
      International Wire filed for protection under chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy
      Code on March 24, 2004. On August 5, 2004, International Wire s plan of
      reorganization was confirmed and on October 20, 2004, International Wire emerged
      from bankruptcy. Under the terms of International Wire s plan of reorganization,
      it assumed the obligations under its indemnity to us. While International Wire
      has advised us that it believes that it will be financially capable of honoring
      any further claims, there can be no assurance of the foregoing, in which case
      insurers could potentially assert claims directly against one of the acquired
      companies. 

Monitoring
      and Oversight Agreement   

We
        entered into a ten-year monitoring and oversight agreement with an affiliate
        of
        HMTF, effective as of January 31, 2003. Under the monitoring and oversight
        agreement, we are required to pay HMTF an annual fee, payable quarterly,
        for
        oversight and monitoring services equal to the lesser of (1) 2% of its
        consolidated EBITDA for such year and (2) $1.5 million. The fee is payable
        for
        the preceding year following the completion of the audited financial statements
        for the preceding year, provided that HMTF may elect to defer the payment
        of
        their fees, in which case these amounts will become due and payable at such
        time
        as HMTF elects to require the payment of these obligations. The monitoring
        and
        oversight agreement makes available the resources of HMTF concerning a variety
        of financial and operational matters. Historically, these services have been
        provided not only by Mr. Furst and Mr. Rosen, outside the scope of their
        duties
        as our directors, but also from numerous other principals and employees of
        HMTF.
        Mr. Furst and Mr. Rosen are each principals of HMTF. HMTF has performed various
        monitoring and oversight services, including providing input in management s
        establishment of our financial and strategic acquisition plans. HMTF monitors
        the viability and implementation of our strategic plan through actions such
        as
        review of monthly financial data, management briefings and facility visits.
        HMTF
        is also entitled to reimbursement for any expenses incurred by it in connection
        with rendering services under the monitoring and oversight agreement. In
        addition, we have agreed to indemnify HMTF, its affiliates, and their respective
        directors, officers, controlling persons, agents and employees from and against
        all claims, liabilities, losses, damages, expenses and fees and disbursements
        of
        counsel related to or arising out of or in connection with the services rendered
        by HMTF under the monitoring and oversight agreement and not resulting primarily
        from the bad faith, gross negligence, or willful misconduct of
        HMTF. 

ITEM
      7A.      Quantitative
      And Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         

Interest
      Rate Risk   

At
      December 31, 2004 and 2005, approximately $265.0 million and $262.4
      million, respectively, of our long-term debt, bore interest at variable rates.
      Accordingly, our earnings and cash flow are affected by changes in interest
      rates. Assuming the current level of borrowings at variable rates and assuming
      a
      two percentage point increase in the average interest rate under these
      borrowings, it is estimated that our interest expense for the year ended
      December 31, 2004 and 2005, would have increased by approximately $5.3 and
      $5.2 million, respectively. In the event of an adverse change in interest rates,
      management would likely take actions that would mitigate our exposure to
      interest rate risk; however, due to the uncertainty of the actions that would
      be
      taken and their possible effects, this analysis assumes no such action. Further,
      this analysis does not consider the effects of the change in the level of
      overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. 

Foreign
      Currency Risk   

We
      conduct our business in various regions of the world, and export and import
      products to and from several countries. Our operations may, therefore, be
      subject to volatility because of currency fluctuations. A significant portion
      of
      our expenses and some of our sales are frequently denominated in local
      currencies, and results of operations may be affected adversely as currency
      fluctuations affect our product prices and operating costs or those of our
      competitors. From time to time, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts
      to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations. We do not
      engage in hedging transactions for speculative investment reasons. Our hedging
      operations historically have not been material, and gains or losses from these
      operations have not been material to our cash flows, financial position or
      results from operations. There can be no assurance that our hedging operations
      will eliminate or substantially reduce risks associated with fluctuating
      currencies. 

ITEM
      8.      Financial
      Statements         

Index
      To Financial Statements And Schedule  

Report
      Of Independent Registered Public Accounting
      Firm   

To
      the
      Board of Directors and Stockholder of Viasystems, Inc.:  

In
      our
      opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index
      present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Viasystems,
      Inc. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and December 31,
      2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
      the
      three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with
      accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In
      addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the
      accompanying index presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
      set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
      financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement
      schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility
      is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
      schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
      accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
      (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
      to
      obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
      of
      material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
      supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
      the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
      and
      evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
      audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP  

      Dallas,
      Texas 

March
      29,
      2006 

Viasystems,
      Inc.   Subsidiaries  

Consolidated
      Balance Sheets   

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
      statements. 

Viasystems,
      Inc.   Subsidiaries  

Consolidated
      Statements of
      Operations   

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
      statements. 

Viasystems,
      Inc.   Subsidiaries  

Consolidated
      Statements of Stockholder s Equity
      (Deficit) and Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
      statements. 

Viasystems,
      Inc.   Subsidiaries  

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash
      Flows   

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
      statements. 

Viasystems,
      Inc.   Subsidiaries  

Notes
      to Consolidated Financial
      Statements   

       (In
      thousands)  

1.
      Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting
      Policies  

Viasystems,
      Inc. ( Viasystems  or the  Company ), a wholly owned subsidiary of Viasystems
      Group, Inc., ( Group ), was formed on April 2, 1997. On April 10, 1997, Group
      contributed to Viasystems all of the capital of its then existing subsidiaries.
      Prior to the contribution of capital by Group, Viasystems had no operations
      of
      its own. The consolidated financial statements included herein present the
      results of operations of Viasystems and its subsidiaries. As used herein, the
       Company  refers to Viasystems and its subsidiaries subsequent to the capital
      contribution by Group and to Group and its subsidiaries prior to such capital
      contribution. 

Nature
      of Business   

The
      Company is a leading worldwide provider of complex multi-layer printed circuit
      boards, wire harnesses and electro-mechanical solutions. The Company conducts
      its operations in two primary segments, (i) printed circuit board
      manufacturing and (ii) assembly. Its products are used in a wide range of
      applications, including automotive dash panels and control modules, major
      household appliances, data networking equipment, telecommunications switching
      equipment and complex medical and technical instruments. 

Principles
      of Consolidation   

The
      accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
      Company. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been
      eliminated in consolidation. 

Reclassifications   

The
      accompanying consolidated balance sheet contains certain reclassifications
      to
      conform with the presentation used in the current period. These
      reclassifications of prior period balances include $6,913 of  property held for
      sale  that was previously included in  other assets, net . 

Cash
      and Cash Equivalents   

The
      Company considers investments purchased with an original maturity of three
      months or less to be cash equivalents. 

Foreign
      Currency Translation   

The
      assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries using the local currency as
      their
      functional currency are translated to U.S. dollars based on current exchange
      rates, and any resulting translation adjustments are included in Accumulated
      other comprehensive (loss) income. The accumulated other comprehensive (loss)
      income amount also reflects foreign currency exchange rate changes related
      to
      certain qualifying assets and liabilities (deemed long-term in nature)
      denominated in currencies other than an entity s functional currency. The net
      translation adjustment for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $16,099
      (net of tax of $0.0). An adjustment of $10,923 reflects amounts transferred
      to
      other expense as a result of the reversal of cumulative translation adjustments
      required in connection with the liquidation of foreign investments (from the
      closure of the Montreal, Canada and Echt, the Netherlands printed circuit board
      operations). The remaining $5,176 was the result of currency rate changes during
      the year. 

Also
      included in the net income are the gains and losses arising from transactions
      denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of a location,
      the
      impact of re-measuring assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries using
      U.S.
      dollars as their functional currency, and the results of our foreign currency
      hedging activities; for additional discussion of hedging activities, see Note
      15. 

Derivative
      Financial Instruments   

From
      time
      to time, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize
      the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Such transactions are
      not material, and gains and losses from such activities are not significant.
      However, there can be no assurance that these activities will eliminate or
      reduce foreign currency risk. Gains/losses on derivative contracts are
      reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to current
      period earnings in the line item in which the hedged item is recorded at the
      time the contracts are settled. 

Accounts
      Receivable   

Accounts
      receivable balances represent customer trade receivables generated from the
      Company s operations. To reduce the potential for credit risk, the Company
      evaluates the collectibility of customer balances based on a combination of
      factors but does not generally require significant collateral. The Company
      regularly analyzes significant customer balances, and, when it becomes evident
      a
      specific customer will be unable to meet its financial obligations to the
      Company for reasons including, but not limited to, bankruptcy filings or
      deterioration in the customer s operating results or financial position, a
      specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded to reduce the related
      receivable to the amount that is believed reasonably collectible. The Company
      also records an allowance for doubtful accounts for all other customers based
      on
      a variety of factors including the length of time the receivables are past
      due,
      the financial health of the customer and historical experiences. If
      circumstances related to specific customers change, estimates of the
      recoverability of receivables could be further adjusted. 

Inventories   

Inventories
      are stated at the lower of cost (valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO)
      or
      last-in, first-out (LIFO) method) or market. Cost includes raw materials, labor
      and manufacturing overhead. LIFO is utilized for certain wire harness and
      assembly inventories. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, the
      percentage of consolidated net inventories valued at LIFO was 32% and 31%,
      respectively. (See Note 21 Subsequent Events.) 

Inventories
      would have decreased by approximately $4,454 and $4,266 at December 31,
      2004 and 2005, respectively, had the FIFO method been used to
      determine inventory cost of all inventories. During 2005, certain inventory
      quantity reductions caused a liquidation of LIFO inventory values. The
      liquidation increased net loss by $275 (net of $0 income taxes). 

Property,
      Plant and Equipment   

Property,
      plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Repairs and maintenance that do not
      extend the useful life of an asset, are charged to expense as incurred. The
      useful lives of leasehold improvements are the lesser of the remaining lease
      term or the useful life of the improvement. When assets are retired or otherwise
      disposed of, their costs and related accumulated depreciation are removed from
      the accounts and any resulting gains or losses are included in the operations
      for the period. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over
      the
      estimated useful lives of the related assets as follows: 

Deferred
      Financing Costs   

Deferred
      financing costs, consisting of fees and other expenses associated with debt
      financing, are amortized over the term of the related debt using the
      straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest
      method. 

Income
      Taxes   

The
      Company accounts for certain items of income and expense in different periods
      for financial reporting and income tax purposes. Provisions for deferred income
      taxes are made in recognition of such temporary differences, where applicable.
      A
      valuation allowance is established against deferred tax assets unless the
      Company believes it is more likely than not that the benefit will be
      realized. 

Intangible
      Assets   

Intangible
      assets consist primarily of identifiable intangibles acquired and goodwill
      arising from the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired.
      Amortization of identifiable intangible assets acquired is computed using
      systematic methods over the estimated useful lives of the related assets as
      follows: 

Life   

Method   

Developed
                technologies 

15
                years 

Double-declining
                balance 

Impairment
      of Long-Lived Assets   

In
      reviewing goodwill for impairment under SFAS No. 142, potential impairment
      is
      identified by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying
      amount, and if the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment
      loss is recorded as the excess of the carrying amount of the goodwill over
      the
      implied fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by
      allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of its assets and
      liabilities, with any excess of fair value of the reporting unit over the
      amounts allocated representing the implied fair value of that unit's goodwill.
      This review is performed at the Company's reporting unit's level. Reporting
      units are either an operating segment as defined in SFAS No.131 or one level
      below the operating segment. 

The
      Company reviews the carrying amounts of long-lived assets other than goodwill
      for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
      that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In evaluating
      the
      recoverability of assets, long-lived assets are grouped at the lowest level
      for
      which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of
      other
      assets, then management compares the carrying amounts of such each asset groups
      with the its estimated undiscounted future operating cash flows. In the event
      an
      impairment exists, an impairment charge would be measured as the amount by
      which
      the carrying amount of the long-lived asset group exceeds its fair value. In
      addition, the remaining useful life of an impaired asset group would be
      reassessed and revised if necessary. 

Product
      Warranties   

Provisions
      for estimated expenses related to product warranties are made at the time
      products are sold. These estimates are established using historical information
      on the nature, frequency and average cost of warranty claims. 

Revenue
      Recognition  

The
      Company recognizes revenue when all of the following criteria are satisfied:
        persuasive
      evidence of an arrangement exists; risk of loss and title transfer to the
      customer; the price is fixed and determinable; and collectibility is reasonably
      assured. Sales and related costs of goods sold are included in income when
      goods
      are shipped to the customer in accordance with the delivery terms, except in
      the
      case of vendor managed inventory arrangements, whereby sales and the related
      costs of goods sold are included in income when possession of goods is taken
      by
      the customer. All services are performed prior to invoicing customers for any
      products manufactured by the Company. Reserves for product returns are recorded
      based on historical trend rates at the time of sale. 

Shipping
      Costs   

Costs
      incurred by the Company to ship finished goods to our customers are included
      in
      Selling, general and administrative on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
      These costs were $3,575, $6,598 and $10,664 in 2003, 2004, and 2005,
      respectively. 

Environmental
      Costs   

Accruals
      for environmental matters are recorded in operating expenses when it is probable
      that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be
      reasonably estimated. Accrued liabilities do not include claims against third
      parties and are not discounted. Costs related to environmental remediation
      are
      charged to expense. Other environmental costs are also charged to expense unless
      they increase the value of the property and/or mitigate or prevent contamination
      from future operations, in which event they are capitalized. 

Use
      of Estimates   

The
      preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make
      estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
      liabilities, net sales and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets
      and liabilities. On an on-going basis we evaluate our estimates, including:
      allowance for bad debts; valuation and recoverability of inventory; amortization
      periods; recoverability of long-term assets, intangible assets and goodwill;
      income taxes; and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience
      and
      on various other assumptions which we believe to be reasonable under the
      circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about
      the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent
      from
      other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
      assumptions or conditions. 

Fair
      Value of Financial Instruments   

The
      fair
      market values of the Company s long-term obligations are as
      follows: 

The
      Company determined the 2004 and 2005 fair values of the Senior Subordinated
      Notes due 2011 using published market values from third party sources. The
      Company determined the 2004 and 2005 fair values of the credit agreement using
      the credit agreement trading values from a third party source. In addition,
      the
      Company has various other insignificant long-term obligations, and the fair
      values of these obligations are estimated by management to be equal to the
      carrying value. 

Employee
      Stock-Based Compensation   

SFAS
      No.
      148,    Accounting
      for Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of FASB
      Statement No. 123   ,
      was
      issued to provide alternative methods of transition of an entity that
      voluntarily changes to the fair value based method of accounting for stock-based
      employee compensation. It also amends the disclosure provisions of SFAS No.
      123,
   Accounting
      for Stock-Based Compensation,   
      to
      require prominent disclosure about the effects on reported net income of an
      entity s accounting policy decisions with respect to the stock-based employee
      compensation and it amends Accounting Principles Board Opinion ( APB ) No. 28,
   Interim
      Financial Reporting,   
      to
      require disclosure about those effects in interim financial
      information. 

Group,
      the holding company parent of Viasystems, maintains a stock option plan. The
      Company records expenses attributable to Group s stock option plan. In
      connection with the Company s plan of reorganization pursuant to chapter 11 of
      the United States Bankruptcy Code (the  Reorganization ), the Company terminated
      its 1997 and 2001 stock option plans and adopted the 2003 stock option plan.
      The
      options issued under the 2003 stock option plan have a fixed exercise price
      of
      $12.63 per share and vest one-third at the grant date, one-third on the 24-month
      anniversary of the grant date and one-third on the 36-month anniversary of
      the
      grant date. As a result of the termination of the 1997 and 2001 stock option
      plans and the adoption of the 2003 stock option plan, under provisions of
      Financial Interpretation Number ( FIN ) No. 44,    Accounting
      for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation an Interpretation of
      APB
      Opinion No. 25   ,
      certain
      options issued under the 2003 stock option plan were treated as  variable 
options. As a result, the Company recorded non-cash compensation expense of
      $1,383 for the year ended December 31, 2003. 

Effective
      January 1, 2004, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions
      of
      SFAS No. 123. Under the modified prospective transition method selected by
      the
      Company as described in SFAS No. 148, compensation cost recognized for the
      year
      ended December 31, 2004 is the same as that which would have been
      recognized had the fair value method of SFAS No. 123 been applied from its
      original effective date. As a result, the Company recorded non-cash compensation
      expense of $3,837 and $6,793, for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
      2005, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the stock
      compensation expense was $3,387, of which, $3,722 related to selling, general
      and administrative expenses and $115 related to cost of goods sold. For the
      year
      ended December 31, 2005, the stock compensation expense was $6,793, of
      which, $6,555 related to selling, general and administrative expenses and $238
      related to cost of goods sold. As required under SFAS No. 123, the pro forma
      effects of stock-based compensation on net (loss) income are as
      follows: 

The
      fair
      value of each option grant is estimated on the date of the grant using the
      Black-Scholes option-pricing model using the following assumptions: 

Recently
      Issued Accounting Pronouncements   

In
      June
      2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,    Accounting
      Changes and Error Corrections; a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS
      No.
      3   .
      SFAS
      No. 154, among other items, requires an entity to provide specific details
      in
      the footnotes to the financial statements when an entity has a change in
      accounting principle, change in accounting estimate or correction of an error
      in
      previously issued financial statements. Adoption of SFAS No. 154 is
      required for all fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005, with early
      adoption permitted. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 154
      to
      have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of
      operations or cash flows. 

In
      March
      2005, the FASB issued Staff Position ( FSP ) No. FIN 46(R)-5. FSP No. FIN
      46(R)-5 addresses whether a reporting enterprise should consider whether it
      holds an implicit variable interest in a variable interest entity ( VIE ) or
      potential VIE when specific conditions exist. The Company does not have
      interests in structures commonly referred to as VIEs. Adoption of FSP No.
      FIN46(R)-5 is required for all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005,
      with
      early adoption permitted. Adoption of FSP No. FIN 46(R)-5 will not have an
      impact on the Company s consolidated financial position, results of operations
      or cash flows. 

In
      March
      2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 107. SAB No. 107
      expresses views of the staff regarding the interaction between SFAS No. 123(R)
      (revised 2004),    Share-Based
      Payment   
      and
      certain SEC rules and regulations. In particular, SAB No. 107 provides guidance
      related to share-based payment transactions with non-employees, the transition
      from nonpublic to public entity status, valuation methods, the accounting for
      certain redeemable financial instruments issued under share-based payment
      arrangements, the classification of compensation expense and non-GAAP financial
      measures. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 on January 1,
      2004.
      Adoption of SAB No. 107 is required for all fiscal years beginning after
      December 15, 2005. Therefore the Company will adopt SAB No. 107 effective
      January 1, 2006. The Company is evaluating what effect the adoption of SFAS
      No.
      123(R) or SAB No. 107 will have on its consolidated financial position, results
      of operations or cash flows. 

Financial
      Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for
      Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (as interpretation of FASB Statement
      No. 143)  was issued in March 2005. This Interpretation provides clarification
      with respect to the timing of liability recognition for legal obligations
      associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets when the timing
      and/or method of settlement of the obligation is conditional on a future event.
      This Interpretation requires that the fair value of a liability for a
      conditional asset retirement obligation be recognized in the period in which
      it
      occurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. We have determined
      that conditional legal obligations do not exist for any of our worldwide owned
      and leased facilities. This is primarily due to our large international presence
      (95.0% of net sales) being in the low cost areas of the world, where there
      are
      no local environment laws and regulations that pertain to our facilities and
      manufacturing operations. 

In
      November 2004 (revised in December 2004), the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,
   Inventory
      Costs -- an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4   
      to be
      effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after
      June
      15, 2005, with early adoption permitted. SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in
      Accounting Research Bulleting ( ARB ) No. 43, Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to
      clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight,
      handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). Paragraph 5 of ARB 43, Chapter
      4, previously stated that  . . . under some circumstances, items such as idle
      facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs
      may
      be so abnormal as to require treatment as current period charges. . . .  SFAS
      No. 151 requires those items be recognized as current period charges regardless
      of whether they meet the criterion of  so abnormal.  In addition, FAS No. 151
      requires the allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion
      be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 51 shall
      be effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after
      June 15, 2005. Earlier application is permitted for inventory costs incurred
      during fiscal years beginning after November 2004. The adoption of SFAS No.
      151
      will not have an impact on the financial position or results of operations,
      as
      the Company does not have any  abnormal  costs that are currently included in
      inventory. 

2.
      Supplemental Cash Flow Disclosure  

Cash
      paid
      for interest for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 was
      $31,497, $26,315 and $39,703 respectively. For the years ended December 31,
      2003, 2004 and 2005, net cash paid for income taxes was $4,894, $5,437 and
      $2,357, respectively. 

3.
      Inventories  

The
      composition of inventories at December 31 is as follows:  

4.       Property
      held for sale  

At
      December 31, 2005, Property held for sale includes land and buildings
      related to the closed operations of (i) Richmond, Virginia,
      (ii) Montreal, Canada (2 facilities), (iii) Granby, Canada,
      (iv) Mishawaka, Indiana, and (v) Echt, the Netherlands. At
      December 31, 2004, Property held for sale included land and buildings
      related to the closed operations of (a) Richmond, Virginia and
      (b) Granby, Canada. Currently, the Company is actively marketing this real
      estate and currently has contracts relative to the real estate in (i) Richmond,
      Virginia, (ii) Montreal, Canada (2 facilities), and (iii) Granby, Canada, but
      there is no certain disposal date. On March 14, 2006, the Company sold the
      real
      estate in Mishawaka, Indiana and the Company received net proceeds of
      approximately $630 which approximates carrying value. 

5.
      Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  

As
      required by the provisions of SFAS No. 142, the Company performs an annual
      impairment evaluation of goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets.
      As demonstrated in the following table, for the year ended December 31,
      2003 the evaluation resulted in the recognition of impairment in the Company s
      European Printed Circuit Boards reporting unit of $22,697. No impairments were
      recorded for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005. 

The
      components of intangible assets subject to amortization were as
      follows: 

The
      Company paid $439 and $229 for acquisitions of patents during the years ended
      December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. In addition, the Company impaired
      $7,850 in developed technologies and $1,374 in trademarks at December 31,
      2003 (see Note 11). 

6.
      Property, Plant and Equipment  

The
      composition of property, plant and equipment at December 31 is as follows
      (See Note 21 Subsequent Events): 

7.
      Accrued and Other Liabilities  

The
      composition of accrued and other liabilities at December 31 is as
      follows: 

8.
      Long-Term Debt  

The
      composition of long-term debt at December 31 is as follows:  

The
      schedule of principal payments for long-term debt at December 31, 2005, is
      as follows: 

Credit
      Agreement    

On
      January 31, 2003, Group, as guarantor, and Viasystems, as borrower, entered
      into
      a senior credit facility (the  2003 Credit Agreement ). The 2003 Credit
      Agreement provided for:  

In
      December 2003, the Company completed an offering of $200,000 of 10 % Senior
      Subordinated Notes due 2011. The Company used the proceeds from the Senior
      Subordinated Notes due 2011 to extinguish the Tranche A Term Loan and to pay
      down the Original Tranche B Term Loan to $242,401. 

On
      October 7, 2004, Group, as guarantor, and Viasystems as borrower, amended the
      2003 Credit Agreement to provide for a new $265,000 term loan facility (the
       Replacement Tranche B Term Loan  or  term loan facility ). The Company used the
      proceeds from the Replacement Tranche B Term Loan to extinguish the Original
      Tranche B Term Loan. The Replacement Tranche B Term Loan matures on September
      30, 2009. 

Borrowings
      under the Replacement Tranche B Term Loan bear interest at floating rates,
      which
      vary according to the interest option selected by the Company. Base rate terms
      available to the Company are either (a) the then effective base rate plus
      3.25%, or (b) the then effective euro currency rate plus 4.25%. The
      weighted average interest rate on outstanding borrowings under the 2003 Credit
      Agreement was 6.6% and 7.7% as of December 31, 2004 and 2005,
      respectively. 

Revolving
      credit loans bear interest, at the Company s option, at the then effective base
      rate plus 3.50% or the then effective euro currency base rate plus 4.50%. The
      Company pays a commitment fee equal to 0.5% on the undrawn portion of the
      commitments in respect of the 2003 Revolving Loans. The availability of
      borrowings under the Revolver at December 31 is as follows: 

The
      Company may optionally prepay the term loans from time to time in whole or
      in
      part, without premium or penalty. At the Company s option, the 2003 Revolving
      Loans may be prepaid, and revolving credit commitments may be permanently
      reduced, in whole or in part, at any time. 

Viasystems 
      obligations under the 2003 Credit Agreement are unconditionally and irrevocably
      guaranteed by Group and each existing and future domestic subsidiary of
      Viasystems. In addition, the 2003 Credit Agreement is secured by a perfected
      first priority security interest in all of the capital stock of Viasystems
      and
      each of its direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries and 65% of each first
      tier
      foreign subsidiary of Viasystems and its domestic subsidiaries. 

The
      2003
      Credit Agreement requires Viasystems to maintain certain conditions, affirmative
      covenants and negative covenants (including financial covenants), including
      the
      following financial covenants: (1) minimum interest coverage,
      (2) maximum total leverage and (3) maximum capital
      expenditures. 

The
      2003
      Credit Agreement also contains a number of covenants that, among other things,
      generally restrict the ability of Group and its subsidiaries to: (a) incur
      additional indebtedness; (b) create liens on assets; (c) incur
      guarantee obligations; (d) enter into mergers, consolidations or
      amalgamations or liquidate, wind up or dissolve; (e) dispose of assets;
      (f) pay dividends, make payment on account of, or set apart assets for, a
      sinking or analogous fund or purchase, redeem, defease or retire capital stock;
      (g) make capital expenditures; (h) make optional repurchases of
      subordinated debt or modify terms of preferred stock; (i) make advances,
      loans, extensions of credit, capital contributions to, or purchases of any
      stock, bonds, notes, debentures or other securities; (j) engage in certain
      transactions with affiliates; and (k) enter into certain sale and leaseback
      transactions. 

The
      2003
      Credit Agreement contains customary events of default including:
      (a) failure to pay principal on any loan when due or any interest or other
      amount that becomes due within five days after the due date thereof;
      (b) any representation or warranty made or deemed made is incorrect in any
      material respect on or as of the date made or deemed made; (c) the default
      in the performance of negative covenants; (d) a default in the performance
      of other covenants or agreements for a period of thirty days; (e) default
      in other indebtedness or guarantee obligations with a principal amount in excess
      of $20,000 beyond the period of grace; (f) events of insolvency;
      (g) ERISA events; and (h) other customary events of default for
      facilities similar to the 2003 Credit Agreement. 

Viasystems
      must prepay the term loan facility and reduce the commitments under the
      revolving credit facility by the following amounts (subject to certain
      exceptions): 

an
                amount equal to 100% of the net proceeds of any incurrence of indebtedness
                by Viasystems or any of its
                subsidiaries; 

an
                amount equal to 75% of the net proceeds of any equity issuances (other
                than (1) equity of the Company issued in connection with incentive
                plans and (2) common equity infusions from certain existing equity
                holders and their respective affiliates) by the Company or any of
                its
                subsidiaries; 

an
                amount equal to 100% of the net proceeds of any sale or other disposition
                by Viasystems or any of its subsidiaries of any material assets,
                except
                for (1) the sale of inventory or obsolete or worn-out property in the
                ordinary course of business, (2) the proceeds of certain specified
                asset sales, (3) transfers resulting from casualty or condemnation
                and (4) other customary exceptions;
                and 

if
                Viasystems  cash and cash equivalents on hand as of December 31 of
                each year (commencing with December 31, 2003) exceeds certain
                amounts, an amount equal to the lesser of (1) 50% of excess cash flow
                and (2) the amount of cash and cash equivalents on hand as of such
                date in excess of $87,500. 

The
      lenders under the 2003 Credit Agreement will apply each mandatory prepayment
      to
      any outstanding borrowings under the term loan facility. Once Viasystems pays
      all outstanding borrowings under the term loan facility, it must cash
      collateralize the letters of credit and permanently reduce the commitments
      in
      respect of the revolving credit facility. 

On
      March
      19, 2003, the Company executed a first amendment to the 2003 Credit Agreement.
      The primary purpose of this amendment was to get clearer definitions on specific
      items. 

On
      December 3, 2003, the Company executed a second amendment to the 2003 Credit
      Agreement. Among other provisions, the amendment defined uses of the
      $200,000 Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 and amended certain financial
      covenants. 

On
      October 7, 2004, Group, as guarantor, and Viasystems, as borrower, amended
      the
      2003 Credit Agreement to provide for a new $265,000 term loan facility (new
       Tranche B Term Loan ). The proceeds from the New Tranche B Term Loan were used
      to extinguish the original Tranche B Term Loan.  

On
      April
      22, 2005, Group as guarantor, and Viasystems, as borrower, amended the 2003
      Credit Agreement to amend certain covenants under the credit agreement. The
      amendment modifies the definition of earnings before interest, taxes,
      depreciation and amortization to exclude the operating losses and cash
      restructuring cost up to $26,100 related to the closure the Company s western
      world PCB fabrication facilities. The amendment further allows the Company
      to
      fund the cash costs of those facility closures. 

Senior
      Subordinated Notes due 2011   

In
      December 2003, Viasystems completed an offering of $200,000 of 10     %
      Senior
      Subordinated Notes due 2011 (the 2011 Notes). 

Interest
      on the 2011 Notes is due semiannually. The 2011 Notes may be redeemed at any
      time prior to January 15, 2008 at the redemption price of 100% plus a
 make-whole  premium (as defined). In the event of an Initial Public Offering
      (as defined), 35% of the 2011 Notes may be redeemed at any time prior to
      January 15, 2007 at the redemption price of 110.5%, plus accrued and unpaid
      interest, if any, to the redemption date. In the event of a Change in Control
      (as defined), the 2011 Notes may be redeemed at a redemption price of 101%,
      plus
      accrued and unpaid interest. 

The
      indenture governing the 2011 Notes contains restrictive covenants which, among
      other things, limit the ability (subject to exceptions) of Viasystems and its
      Guarantors (as defined) to: (a) incur additional debt; (b) pay
      dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, its capital stock;
      (c) create certain liens without securing the notes; (d) make
      investments; (e) engage in transactions with affiliates; (f) transfer
      or sell assets; (g) guarantee debt; (h) restrict dividends or other
      payments to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiaries (as defined);
      (i) consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of its assets
      and the assets of its subsidiaries; and (j) engage in unrelated
      businesses. 

Department
      of Trade and Industry Notes   

In
      conjunction with the Company s plan of reorganization approved by the Bankruptcy
      Court, a  12 million (approximately $18 million) loan guaranteed by the Company
      was cancelled and in exchange the Department of Trade and Industry (the DTI)
      received a note in an amount equal to  9.0 million with interest payable
      semi-annually in cash on a current basis at an annual interest rate of three
      percent for periods up to September 30, 2008 and at an annual interest rate
      equal to the Bank of England Base Rate plus two percent for periods thereafter
      and principal payable from December 31, 2008 through December 31,
      2010. In May 2004, the DTI Note was discharged in full as a result of proceeds
      received by the noteholder in connection with the liquidation of Viasystems
      Tyneside Limited, resulting in a reorganization expense reversal of
      $9,798. 

9.
      Guarantor Subsidiaries  

The
      2011
      Notes are fully and unconditionally (as well as jointly and severally)
      guaranteed on an unsecured, senior subordinated basis by each subsidiary of
      Viasystems other than its foreign subsidiaries. Each of the guarantor
      subsidiaries and non-guarantor subsidiaries is wholly owned by the
      Company. 

The
      following condensed consolidating financial statements of the Company include
      the accounts of the Company, the combined accounts of the guarantor subsidiaries
      and the combined accounts of the non-guarantor subsidiaries.  

Balance
      Sheet as of December 31, 2004  

Balance
      Sheet as of December 31, 2005   

Income
      Statement as of December 31, 2003  

Income
      Statement as of December 31, 2004  

Income
      Statement as of December 31, 2005  

Statement
      of Cash Flows as of December 31, 2003  

Statement
      of Cash Flows as of December 31, 2004  

Statement
      of Cash Flows as of December 31, 2005  

10.       Prepackaged
      Plan of Reorganization  

Summary
      of the Plan   

On
      October 1, 2002, Group and Viasystems filed a joint prepackaged plan of
      reorganization, as modified on January 2, 2003 (the Plan), pursuant to a
      voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
      (the
      Bankruptcy Code) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District
      of New York (the Bankruptcy Court). Other than Viasystems, none of Group s
      subsidiaries filed for protection under the Bankruptcy Code. 

On
      January 14, 2003, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving and confirming
      the Plan. Subsequently, on January 31, 2003, the Plan became effective and
      in
      accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan: 

Viasystems 
                outstanding Credit Agreement debt was reduced by $77,400 from proceeds
                of
                the Rights Offering and Exchange described below and was restructured
                to
                provide for an aggregate term loan facility of $447.9 million and
                a
                revolving facility of $51,300 with a letter of credit subfacility
                of $15.0
                million (the Exit Facility); 

Viasystems 
                Senior Unsecured Notes were cancelled, and in exchange the holders
                thereof
                received (a) approximately 1.2 million shares of New Junior Preferred
                Stock (as defined below) having a liquidation preference of $120.1
                million
                and (b) approximately 1.6 million shares of New Common Stock (as
                defined below); 

Claims
                held by the Department of Trade and Industry of the United Kingdom
                (the
                DTI), pursuant to a guaranty made by Viasystems with respect to a
 12.0
                million loan made by the DTI to Viasystems Tyneside Limited (VTL),
                were
                cancelled, and in exchange the DTI received a note (the DTI Note)
                in an
                amount equal to  9.0 million with interest payable semi-annually in cash
                on a current basis at an annual interest rate of three percent for
                periods
                up to September 30, 2008 and at an annual interest rate equal to
                the Bank
                of England Base Rate plus two percent for periods thereafter and
                principal
                payable from December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2010
                (provided all amounts due and owing under the Exit Facility are not
                paid
                in full prior to October 1, 2008); provided, however, proceeds received
                by
                the DTI pursuant to the liquidation of VTL were used to reduce the
                outstanding principal under the DTI
                Note; 

Viasystems 
                Subordinated Notes in the principal amount of $500.0 million were
                cancelled, and in exchange the holders thereof received 17.2 million
                shares of the New Common Stock; 

Claims
                held by the general unsecured creditors of Group were cancelled,
                and in
                exchange such holders were given the right to receive the lesser
                of
                (a) its pro rata share of 55,540 shares of the New Common Stock and
                (b) shares of the New Common Stock having a value equal to the amount
                of such holder s claim; 

Claims
                held by the general unsecured creditors of Viasystems were cancelled,
                and
                in exchange the holders thereof will receive non-transferable subordinated
                promissory notes in amounts equal to 100% of such claims with interest
                payable semi-annually in cash on a current basis at an annual interest
                rate of three percent for periods up to September 30, 2008 and at
                an
                annual interest rate equal to the prime commercial lending rate per
                annum
                published in The Wall Street Journal, New York City edition, for
                periods
                thereafter and principal payable from December 31, 2008 through
                December 31, 2010; 

The
                Series B Preferred Stock of Group was cancelled, and in exchange
                the
                holders thereof received warrants (the New Warrants) to purchase
                approximately 1.4 million shares of the New Common Stock at a purchase
                price of $25.51 per share; 

The
                existing common stock, options and warrants of Group were cancelled,
                and
                the holders thereof did not receive any distribution under the Plan;
                and 

Group
                adopted an incentive option plan authorizing the issuance of stock
                options
                to purchase up to approximately 2.8 million shares of New Common
                Stock to
                employees of Group and its subsidiaries, and, on the effective date
                of the
                reorganization, issued options to acquire approximately 2.2 million
                of
                such shares to employees at an exercise price of $12.63 per share.
                The
                value of these shares was determined by a third party, on the basis
                of
                total enterprise value of approximately
                $828,000. 

In
        addition, under the terms of the plan of reorganization, (1) Group issued
        rights to purchase approximately 4.3 million shares of Group class B senior
        convertible preferred stock at an aggregate purchase price of $53,700 to
        Hicks,
        Muse, Tate and Furst, Incorporated ( HMTF ), certain affiliates of GSCP (NJ),
        Inc. ( GSC ), TCW Share Opportunity Fund III, L.P., and other holders of the
        Subordinated Notes (the  Rights Offering ) and (2) $23,700 of bank debt
        outstanding under the 2002 Credit Agreement held by HMTF was exchanged for
        approximately 1.9 million shares of New Common Stock. Affiliates of HMTF,
        certain affiliates of GSC, and TCW Share Opportunity Fund III, L.P. severally
        committed to purchase all of the Group class B senior convertible preferred
        stock offered in the Rights Offering. In consideration for their commitment,
        the
        parties received an aggregate fee of approximately $1,000. All proceeds of
        the
        Rights Offering were applied to reduce the outstanding indebtedness under
        the
        2003 Credit Agreement. 

The
      reorganization did not qualify for  Fresh-Start  accounting as the holders of
      existing voting shares immediately before confirmation received more than 50%
      of
      the voting shares of the emerged entity due to the exchange of debt securities
      held by such holders and their participation in the Rights Offering described
      above. 

On
      January 31, 2003, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan,
      Group
      issued approximately 20.7 million shares of common stock of Group (the New
      Common Stock), approximately 4.3 million shares of senior convertible preferred
      stock of Group (the New Senior Convertible Preferred Stock), approximately
      1.2
      million shares of junior preferred stock of Group (the New Junior Preferred
      Stock), New Warrants to purchase approximately 1.4 million shares of New Common
      Stock of Group, and options under the Incentive Option Plan to purchase
      approximately 2.2 million shares of New Common Stock. All the agreements and
      other documents evidencing the previously outstanding rights of any holder
      of an
      equity interest in Group, including options and warrants to purchase equity
      interest, were cancelled. Additionally, all of the agreements and other
      documents evidencing the rights of any holder of a claim against Viasystems
      or
      Group in respect to the Senior Notes and the Subordinated Notes of Viasystems
      were cancelled. 

Liabilities
      Subject to Compromise    

The
      Company incurred reorganization expenses as follows: 

______________ 

      (1)
      Non-cash item. 

11.
      Restructuring and Impairment Charges  

In
      light
      of the economic downturn that began in 2000 and continued into early 2003
      related to many of the Company s key telecommunication and networking customers,
      and the shift of production demand from high cost countries to low cost
      countries, the Company initiated restructuring activities during 2001 to adjust
      its cost position compared to anticipated levels of business. The Company also
      reviewed the carrying value of the related assets. These actions resulted in
      plant shutdowns and downsizings as well as asset impairments. These actions
      continued through 2005. The following table summarizes the restructuring and
      impairment charges taken during the years ended December 31: 

2003
      Restructuring and Impairment Charges   

During
      the quarter ended September 30, 2003, the Company recorded a personnel and
      severance restructuring charge of $827 related to the downsizing of the
      Montreal, Canada printed circuit board fabrication facilities. 

Over
      the
      past several years, beginning in 2001, the telecommunications and computer
      markets have experienced a significant economic downturn. Due to this downturn
      the Company has closed and restructured numerous plants under the belief that
      this downturn was temporary and the cost structure had to be reduced in light
      of
      the market s decreased demands. To compound the negative impact of such
      downturn, the U.S. dollar ( USD ) weakened during the second half of 2003. This
      weakening caused the cost of certain local currencies (primarily the Canadian
      dollar and the Euro) to increase. As the Company s costs are primarily in local
      currencies and their sales are primarily in USD, its cash flows have been
      negatively impacted. 

During
      the quarter ended June 30, 2003, an impairment charge of $6,588 was recorded
      to
      write down the assets held for sale related to the Richmond, Virginia printed
      circuit board fabrication facility, to an offer price received by the Company
      for the property by a third party. This transaction ultimately failed to close.
      The Company continues to actively market this property. As of December 31,
      2004 and 2005, this facility is included in Property held for sale in the
      Company s consolidated balance sheet. 

During
      the quarter ended September 30, 2003, in connection with the closure of the
      Granby, Canada printed circuit board fabrication facility in 2002, the Company
      also recorded an asset impairment charge of $358 to write down to fair value
      the
      assets being held for sale related to the operation. The Company is actively
      marketing this property. As of December 31, 2004 and 2005, this facility is
      included in Property held for sale in the Company s consolidated balance
      sheet. 

During
      the Company s 2004 budgeting process conducted in the quarter ended
      December 31, 2003, the Company concluded that the cash flows at Echt, the
      Netherlands and Montreal, Canada would be impacted beyond the near term. In
      addition, due to business conditions at the Company s Milwaukee, Wisconsin
      facility, the Company expected the facility to fail to generate meaningful,
      if
      any, cash flow in the foreseeable future. 

Based
      on
      the Company s future cash flow analysis prepared under SFAS No. 144, the Company
      determined that the fixed asset groupings at Echt, Montreal, and Milwaukee
      were
      impaired. The Company utilized recent auction prices or appraisals for similar
      equipment and buildings as a basis for the fair value of the individual pieces
      of equipment and buildings. Accordingly, the fixed asset grouping at Echt,
      Montreal, and Milwaukee were written down by $28,285, $12,305 and $8,612,
      respectively. 

2004
      Restructuring and Impairment Charges   

During
      the quarter ended June 30, 2004, the Company reversed an $85 personnel accrual
      and a $10 miscellaneous accrual for previous restructuring at its printed
      circuit board fabrication facility located in Granby, Canada. In addition,
      the
      Company reversed a $6,069 restructuring accrual based on its release from an
      operating lease contract of a closed business. 

During
      the quarter ended December 31, 2004, the Company completed the following
      restructuring activities: 

Downsizing
                of the Montreal, Canada printed circuit board fabrication facilities
                requiring the recognition of a personnel and severance charge of
                $81. 

Downsizing
                of the corporate offices requiring the recognition of a personnel
                and
                severance charge of $508. 

Downsizing
                of the Echt, the Netherlands printed circuit board fabrication facilities
                requiring the recognition of a personnel and severance charge of
                $1,553. 

Throughout
      the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recognized $263 in
      restructuring expense in connection with the upkeep of assets being held for
      sale related to the closure of the Granby, Canada printed circuit board
      fabrication facility in 2002. Additionally, the Company recognized $208 in
      restructuring expense in connection with satisfying contractual commitments
      of
      the previously closed Coventry, England manufacturing facility. 

During
      the Company s 2005 budgeting process conducted in the quarter ended
      December 31, 2004, the Company concluded that the cash flows at Echt, the
      Netherlands and Montreal, Canada would be impacted beyond the near term. The
      expected future cash flows of the facilities were reviewed under the provisions
      of SFAS No. 144 resulting in an impairment charge of $3,121 and $1,443 for
      Echt
      and Montreal, respectively. 

2005
      Restructuring and Impairment Charges   

On
      February 25, 2005, the Company announced the intention to close the printed
      circuit board manufacturing facilities located in Echt, the Netherlands and
      Montreal, Canada. At the time of announcement of the closures, the Company
      estimated that total closure costs would approximate $50,000, with $23,000
      being
      related to headcount reduction costs and the remainder being related to asset
      impairments and other contractual commitments. The Company now estimates that
      total closure costs will approximate $28,000 to $30,000, with $23,000 being
      related to headcount reduction costs and the remainder being related to other
      contractual commitments and closure costs. As of December 31, 2005, the
      restructuring is substantially completed with the only remaining item being
      costs related to the sale of the land and buildings. 

On
      July
      8, 2005, the Company announced the closure of the manufacturing facility located
      in Mishawaka, Indiana. The Company estimated that the restructuring charges
      related to the closure would total approximately $375, and actual costs were
      $272. The restructuring activities pursuant to this closure are substantially
      completed at December 31, 2005. 

For
      the
      year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded personnel and
      restructuring charges of $10,309, $12,797 and $272 related to the closure of
      the
      facilities in Echt, the Netherlands, Montreal, Canada, and Mishawaka, Indiana,
      respectively. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2005, the
      Company recorded a restructuring charge of $1,823 related to the impairment
      of
      specific pieces of manufacturing equipment and buildings, and $2,089 for costs
      incurred with the early termination of outstanding contracts related to the
      closure of the two facilities in Montreal, Canada. 

The
      restructuring actions in 2005 reduced employees by 702 in Montreal, Canada,
      461
      in Echt, the Netherlands, and 65 in Mishawaka, Indiana. 

For
      the
      year ended December 31, 2005, the Company has written off a total of $3,495
      of inventory to costs of goods sold related to the plant closures. The Company
      disposed of the inventory in conjunction with the write-off.  

Below
      are
      tables summarizing restructuring and impairment accruals and the related
      activity as of and for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and
      2005: 

The
      restructuring and impairment charges were determined based on formal plans
      approved by the Company s management using the best information available to it
      at the time. The amounts the Company may ultimately incur may change as the
      balance of the plans are executed. Expected cash payout of the accrued expenses
      is as follows: 

Identifiable
      Intangibles Impairment   

In
      connection with the Company s 2003 annual impairment testing required by SFAS
      No. 142, impairment was recognized on the Company s intangible assets. When the
      Company acquired Echt and Montreal, the excess purchase price was allocated
      to
      goodwill, developed technologies and assembled workforce. Due to rapid
      technological changes as well as strategic decisions to migrate from western
      world manufacturing facilities to China-based manufacturing facilities, it
      became apparent that the remaining developed technologies balances, of $4,430
      for Montreal and $3,420 for Echt, were impaired and should be written
      off. 

As
      part
      of acquiring numerous printed circuit board assembly facilities, the Company
      was
      required to buy a license from the Lemelson Medical, Education   Research
      Foundation, Limited Partnership which is required in the inspection process
      of
      this product. This license was capitalized as an intangible and was being
      amortized over its life. On January 26, 2004, a U.S. District Court in Las
      Vegas
      ruled the 14 patents asserted by the Lemelson Partnership were invalid and
      unenforceable. Therefore as part of this analysis, the Company wrote off $1,374
      related to this license in 2003. 

No
      identifiable intangibles were deemed to be impaired during the annual impairment
      testing required by SFAS No. 142 for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
      2005. 

12.
      Commitments  

The
      Company leases certain building and transportation and other equipment under
      capital and operating leases. Included in property, plant and equipment as
      of
      December 31, 2004 and 2005, were $1,671 and $1,050, respectively, of cost
      basis and $1,030 and $156, respectively, of accumulated depreciation related
      to
      equipment held under capital leases. Total rental expense under operating leases
      was $6,870, $8,022 and $10,015 for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004
      and 2005, respectively. Future minimum lease payments under capital leases
      and
      operating leases that have initial or remaining noncancelable lease terms in
      excess of one year are as follows: 

13.
      Contingencies  

The
      Company is a party to contracts with third party consultants, independent
      contractors and other service providers in which the Company has agreed to
      indemnify such parties against certain liabilities in connection with their
      performance. Based on historical experience and the likelihood that such parties
      will ever make a claim against the Company, such indemnification obligations
      are
      immaterial. 

The
      Company provides that none of the directors and officers of the Company bear
      the
      risk of personal liability for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty
      as
      a director except in cases where the action involves a breach of the duty of
      loyalty, acts in bad faith or intentional misconduct, the unlawful paying of
      dividends or repurchasing of capital stock, or transactions from which the
      director derived improper personal benefits. 

The
      Company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the operating lease payments
      of
      the Milwaukee, Wisconsin facility through the year 2010. The total maximum
      payments from this guarantee are $8,558. As of December 31, 2005, no
      liability related to this guarantee has been established. 

The
      Company is subject to various lawsuits and claims with respect to such matters
      as product liability, product development and other actions arising in the
      normal course of business. In the opinion of the Company s management, the
      ultimate liabilities resulting from such lawsuits and claims will not have
      a
      material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition and results of
      operations and cash flows. 

The
      Company believes it is in material compliance with applicable environmental
      laws
      and regulations and that its environmental controls are adequate to address
      existing regulatory requirements. 

14.
      Income Taxes  

The
      Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of SFAS
      No.
      109,    Accounting
      for Income Taxes   .
      The
      provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and
      2005, consists of the following: 

A
      reconciliation between the total income tax provision at the federal statutory
      income tax rate and at the effective tax rate for the years ended
      December 31 is summarized below: 

The
      tax
      effects of significant temporary differences representing deferred tax assets
      and liabilities at December 31 are as follows: 

The
      current deferred tax assets are included in prepaid expenses and other and
      the
      long-term deferred tax assets, consisting of net operating loss carryforwards,
      are in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The current deferred
      tax
      liabilities are included in accrued and other liabilities in the consolidated
      balance sheets. 

Approximate
      domestic and foreign income (loss) before income tax provision are as
      follows: 

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, the Company had the following net operating loss (NOL)
      carryforwards: $803,299 in the U.S., $260 in China, $68,930 in Luxembourg,
      $128,294 in Canada, $23,811 in Hong Kong, $27,562 in the U.K., and $15,898
      in
      the Netherlands. The U.S. NOLs expire in 2019 through 2025 and the Canada NOLs
      expire in 2007 through 2012. All other NOLs carry forward indefinitely. Canada
      has an investment tax credit carryforward of $1,191 that will expire in 2010
      and
      a capital loss of $181,762 that will carry forward indefinitely. The Company
      has
      not recognized and does not anticipate recognizing a deferred tax liability
      for
      approximately $23,175 on undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries
      because the Company intends to indefinitely reinvest the earnings. 

In
      connection with the Reorganization completed on January 31, 2003, the Company
      believes more than a 50% change in ownership occurred under Section 382 of
      the
      Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and regulations issued thereunder.
      As
      a consequence, the utilization of the U.S. NOLs is limited annually to
      approximately $19,700 per year (except to the extent the Company recognizes
      certain gains built in at the time of the ownership change), with any unused
      portion carried over to succeeding years. Any NOLs not utilized in a year can
      be
      carried over to succeeding years. 

The
      Company has a tax holiday in China, in certain of the Company s subsidiaries,
      that allows a two-year tax exemption and three-year 50% reduction in the tax
      rate. If not for such tax holiday, the Company would have had $3,787, $3,674
      and
      $5,587 of additional income tax expense for December 31, 2003, 2004 and
      2005, respectively, based on the applicable rates ranging from 15% to
      27%. 

On
      October 22, 2004, President Bush signed the American Jobs Creation Act (the
       Act ), which includes numerous provisions that may affect business practices
      and accounting for income taxes. Management has determined that the Act will
      not
      have an effect on the Company. 

15.
      Derivative Financial Instruments  

The
      Company accounts for derivative financial instruments under the provisions
      of
      SFAS No. 133,    Accounting
      for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,   
      as
      amended by SFAS No. 137 and SFAS No. 138 (collectively, the Statement). The
      Statement requires all derivatives to be recognized in the statement of
      financial position at fair value, with changes in the fair value of derivative
      instruments to be recorded in current earnings or deferred in accumulated other
      comprehensive loss, depending on whether a derivative is designated as and
      is
      effective as a hedge and on the type of hedging transaction. 

The
      Company uses derivative instruments, primarily foreign exchange forward
      contracts, to manage certain of its foreign exchange rate risks. The Company s
      objective is to limit potential losses in earnings or cash flows from adverse
      foreign currency exchange rate movements. The Company s foreign currency
      exposure arises from the transacting of business in a currency that is different
      from the currency that the Company incurs the majority of its costs.

Generally,
      the Company applies hedge accounting as allowed by the Statement. For hedged
      forecasted transactions, hedge accounting is discontinued if the forecasted
      transaction is no longer intended to occur, and any previously deferred hedging
      gains or losses would be recorded to earnings immediately. Earnings impacts
      for
      all designated hedges are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations
      generally on the same line item as the gain or loss on the item being hedged.
      The Company records all derivatives at fair value as assets or liabilities
      in
      the consolidated balance sheet, with classification as current or long-term
      depending on the duration of the instrument. 

At
      December 31, 2005, the net deferred hedging gain in accumulated other
      comprehensive (loss) income was $75 as the contracts entered into during
      2005 had either expired or were offset with a corresponding opposite position.
      There was no hedge ineffectiveness during the years ended December 31,
      2003, 2004 and 2005. In addition, there were no hedging instruments outstanding
      at December 31, 2003 or 2004. 

16.
      Business Segment Information   

SFAS
      No. 131,    Disclosures
      about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information   ,
      establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments in
      annual financial statements and requires selected information about operating
      segments in financial reports issued to stockholders. It also establishes
      standards for related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas
      and major customers. Operating segments are defined as components of an
      enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is
      evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker or decision making
      group in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing
      performance. 

The
      Company has four reportable segments for the years ended December 31, 2003,
      2004 and 2005: (i) China Printed Circuit Boards, (ii) North America
      Printed Circuit Boards, (iii) European Printed Circuit Boards and
      (iv) Assembly, which includes our harness business. (See Note 21 Subsequent
      Events.) The other operating segment includes certain North American EMS
      operations. Following the planned closure of the North American and European
      Printed Circuit Board operations in 2005, the Company expects to have two
      remaining reportable segments - China Printed Circuit Boards and
      Assembly. 

China
      printed circuit boards, consists of the Company's printed circuit board
      fabrication manufacturing facilities located within China. These facilities
      provide comprehensive front-end engineering services, including, circuit board
      layout and related design services leading to manufacturing of multi-layer
      printed circuit boards and backpanels. 

Until
      the
      third quarter of 2005, the Company's western world printed circuit board
      fabrication manufacturing facilities - North American Printed Circuit Board
      located in Montreal, Canada and European Printed Circuit Boards located in
      Echt,
      the Netherlands provided comprehensive front-end engineering services,
      including, circuit board layout and related design services leading to
      manufacturing of multi-layer printed circuit boards and backpanels. On February
      25, 2005 the Company announced its plan for the closure of the facilities
      located in Echt, the Netherlands and Montreal, Canada. See further discussion
      of
      the closures in Note 11. 

The
      Assembly segment is composed of the assembly operations for three operating
      segments, which have been aggregated under SFAS No. 131, including wire
      harnesses and cable assemblies, backpanel assembly, printed circuit board
      assembly, custom enclosures and full system assembly and test. These assembly
      operations are conducted in facilities located in China and Mexico. (See Note
      21
      Subsequent Events). 

Following
      is the Company s reportable segment information for the years ended
      December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005. Intersegment sales are fully eliminated
      in consolidation. General corporate operating expenses are allocated to each
      operating segment based on sales. The accounting policies of the segments are
      the same as those described in Note 1. Segment data includes intersegment
      revenues and is eliminated in consolidation. 

(1)    
             
                On
                February 25, 2005 the Company announced the intention to close the
                printed
                circuit board manufacturing facilities in Echt, the Netherlands and
                Montreal, Canada. See further discussion of the closures in Note
                11.

Net
      sales
      by country of destination are as follows:  

Net
        sales
        by product offering are as follows: 

Property,
        plant and equipment, net by country are as follows (See Note 11 and Note
        21): 

17.
      Concentration Of Business  

During
      the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, sales to General Electric
      were 12.1%, 11.3% and 13.2%, respectively of net sales. No sales to any other
      customers represented over 10.0% of net sales for the years ended December
      2003,
      2004 and 2005. 

The
      Company holds cash amounts in excess of federally insured amounts in certain
      bank accounts. 

18.
      Retirement Plans  

The
      Company has a defined contribution retirement savings plan (the Retirement
      Plan)
      covering substantially all domestic employees who meet certain eligibility
      requirements as to age and length of service. The Retirement Plan incorporates
      the salary deferral provision of Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code
      and
      employees may defer up to 30% of compensation or the annual maximum limit
      prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code. The Company may contribute 1% of
      employees  salaries to the Retirement Plan and matches a percentage of the
      employees  deferrals. The Company may also elect to contribute an additional
      profit-sharing contribution to the Retirement Plan at the end of each year.
      The
      Company s contributions to the Retirement Plan were $503, $506 and $564 for the
      years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. 

19.
      Research And Development  

Research,
      development and engineering expenditures for the creation and application of
      new
      products and processes were approximately $2,882, $3,320 and $4,115 for the
      years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Research and
      Development is included in the selling, general and administrative line item
      on
      the statement of operations. 

20.
      Related Party Transactions  

Monitoring
      and Oversight Agreement   

The
        Company entered into a ten-year monitoring and oversight agreement with an
        affiliate of HMTF, effective as of January 31, 2003. The monitoring and
        oversight agreement obligates the Company to indemnify HMTF, its affiliates,
        and
        their respective directors, officers, controlling persons, agents and employees
        from and against all claims, liabilities, losses, damages, expenses and fees
        and
        disbursements of counsel related to or arising out of or in connection with
        the
        services rendered under the monitoring and oversight agreement and not resulting
        primarily from the bad faith, gross negligence, or willful misconduct of
        HMTF.
        The Statement of Operations includes expenses of $1,375, $1,500 and $1,500
        for
        the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively. During 2005,
        the company made a cash payment of $3,625 to HMTF related to these expenses.
        HMTF and its affiliates have a commitment of $5,000 and $5,000 of debt under
        the
        2003 Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2004 and 2005,
        respectively. 

Consulting
      Arrangement   

In
      connection with the Company s restructuring activities, commencing December
      2001, the Company engaged Katia Advisors LLC to provide sales and marketing
      consulting services related to strategic marketing opportunities. Such services
      were provided on a month-by-month basis and effective December 1, 2004 the
      Company discontinued using these services. As of December 1, 2004, the Company
      had paid Katia Advisors an aggregate of $520. These services were provided
      by
      Richard McGinn, a partner of Katia and a member of the board of directors of
      the
      Company. 

Compensation
      of Directors   

The
      chairman of the board receives an annual fee of $120 and directors (other than
      the Chairman) who are not executive officers receive an annual fee of $30.
      In
      addition, each audit committee member receives an annual fee of $10 and the
      Chairman of the audit committee receives an additional fee of $5. Directors
      are
      reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with attending
      meetings of the board and its committees and receive a per diem fee of $1 for
      additional time spent on the Company s business. The Company also has granted
      55,000 stock options with an exercise price of $12.63 per share, which vest
      over
      a period of three years, to each of Mr. Steffen, Mr. McGinn, Mr. Vieser and
      Ms.
      Gulyas as compensation for their services as members of the board. In addition,
      Mr. Steffen received 50,000 options with an exercise price of $12.63 per share,
      which vest over a period of 3 years for his service as Chairman of the
      Board. 

Rights
      Offering   

On
      October 7, 2004, Group completed a Rights Offering whereby they sold 5,555,555
      shares of common stock at $9.00 per share to current holders of stock. The
      proceeds, net of issuance costs, of $47,069, were contributed to the Company.
      The proceeds from such offering are being used for general working capital
      purposes and in the expansion of our printed circuit board operations in
      China. 

Other   

Certain
      affiliates of GSC are stockholders of Group and have the right together with
      certain other stockholders of Group to designate certain members of Group s
      board of directors. An affiliate of GSC had a commitment in the amount of $5,000
      and $5,000 of debt under the 2003 Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2004
      and 2005, respectively. 

In
      2000,
      the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Wirekraft Industries,
      Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of International Wire Group, Inc.
      ( International Wire ), an affiliate HM Capital Partners. International Wire
      continued as an affiliate of HM Capital Partners until all interests were
      terminated in November of 2004. Mr. Hamwee and Mr. Cummings, both members of
      the
      Company s board of directors, are affiliates of GSC. GSC owns 16.9% of
      International Wire and Mr. Hamwee was formerly Chairman of the Board of
      International Wire and now serves as a director of International Wire. As of
      November 2004, HM Capital Partners was no longer affiliated with International
      Wire. 

The
      Company s wire harness operations, in accordance with negotiated contract terms,
      purchased an aggregate of $34,077, $37,730 and $42,147 of product from
      International Wire Group, Inc. in 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively. Viasystems
      had amounts due to International Wire. of $6,510 and $5,732 at December 31,
      2004 and 2005, respectively. 

The
      Company has a receivable of $3,707 as of December 31, 2005 and $3,564 as of
      December 31, 2004 from Group relative to certain expenses paid by the
      Company for the benefit of Group. 

21.
      Subsequent Events  

On
      March
      21, 2006, we entered into an agreement to sell our wire harness business to
      Electrical Components International Holdings Company ( ECI ), a newly formed
      affiliate of Francisco Partners, L.P., a private equity firm. Under the terms
      of
      the stock purchase agreement, ECI will purchase all of the outstanding capital
      stock of Wire Harness Industries, Inc., the entity through which we conduct
      the
      wire harness business, for approximately $320 million. The closing, which is
      subject to certain conditions, including obtaining regulatory and third party
      consents or approvals, is expected to be consummated by the end of the second
      calendar quarter 2006. 

The
      sale
      will result in the disposition of most of our operations in Mexico and a small
      portion of our China operations, and will result in the reduction of our
      employee head count, as of December 31, 2005, from 25,738 to
      18,642. 

The
      estimated net proceeds from the sale of our wire harness business of
      approximately $310 million will be applied to the repayment of all of our
      outstanding bank debt, with the remainder to be held for reinvestment in our
      ongoing businesses.  

Results
      of the Wire Harness Division are included in the assembly market
      segment. 

The
      following table summarizes the carrying values of the assets and liabilities
      of
      the Wire Harness Division included in the Consolidated Balance
      Sheets: 

The
      following table summarizes the operating results of the Wire Harness Division
      included in the Statement of Operations. 

ITEM
      9.      Changes
      in and Disagreements with Accountants on Auditing and Financial
      Disclosure    

None. 

ITEM
      9A.      Controls
      and Procedures    

As
      required by Rule 13a-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we carried
      out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our
      management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
      of
      the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
      procedures. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
      of
      disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error
      and
      the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly,
      even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable
      assurance of achieving their control objectives. Based upon our evaluation,
      our
      Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our
      disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable
      assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that
      we
      file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed,
      summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the applicable
      rules and forms, and that it is accumulated and communicated to our management,
      including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as
      appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required
      disclosure. 

Our
      management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
      control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting
      is a
      process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
      of
      financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      reporting purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
      in the United States of America. Because of its inherent limitations, internal
      control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Our
      management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
      reporting as of December 31, 2005. Our management concluded that based on
      its assessment, our internal control over financial reporting was effective
      as
      of December 31, 2005. 

There
      has
      been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the
      quarter ended December 31, 2005 that has materially affected, or is
      reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
      reporting.  

ITEM
      9B.      Other
      Information    

None.  

PART
      III   

ITEM
      10.      Directors
      And Executive Officers Of The Registrant         

The
      following table sets forth the names and ages of each of the directors and
      the
      executive officers of Viasystems and , followed by a description of their
      business experience during the past five years. The positions held by the
      directors and executive officers are with Group and Viasystems, unless indicated
      otherwise. All executive officers are appointed by the board of directors of
      Group and Viasystems and serve at its pleasure. There are no family
      relationships among any of the executive officers. Unless indicated otherwise,
      each of the directors and executive officers is a U.S. citizen and the business
      address of each individual is 101 South Hanley Road, Suite 400, St. Louis,
      Missouri 63105. 

Pursuant
      to the terms of the Stockholders  Agreement, the board of directors of Group
      will consist of at least nine members, including the chief executive officer
      of
      the company, five designees of affiliates of HMTF and three designees of
      affiliates of GSC and other non-HMTF stockholders. See "Certain Relationships
      and Related Party Transactions   Stockholders Agreement." 

Name      

Age      

Position      

Non-Employee  

                 Directors  

Christopher
                J. Steffen (1) (2)* 

64 

Chairman 

Jack
                D. Furst 

47 

Director 

Andrew
                S. Rosen (1) 

37 

Director 

Robert
                F. Cummings Jr. (2) 

56 

Director 

Diane
                H. Gulyas (2) 

49 

Director 

Robert
                A. Hamwee (1) 

35 

Director 

Richard
                A. McGinn (1) (2) 

59 

Director 

Richard
                W. Vieser (2) 

78 

Director 

Executive
                Officers  

David
                M. Sindelar 

48 

Chief
                Executive Officer and Director 

Timothy
                L. Conlon 

54 

President,
                Chief Operating Officer and Director 

David
                J. Webster 

43 

Chief
                Administrative Officer and President of Wire Harness
                Division 

Gerald
                G. Sax 

45 

Senior
                Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

Steven
                S.L. Tang 

50 

President
                  Asia Pacific Group 

________ 

(1)     Member
      of
      the Group compensation committee. 

(2)     Member
      of
      the Group audit committee.  

*
      Denoted
      financial expert of the audit committee and independent director. 

Christopher
      J. Steffen    
      has been
      Chairman of the board of directors since December 2003 and a director since
      October 2003. Mr. Steffen has been an advisor to Wall Street Management and
      Capital, Inc. since 2002. From 1993 to 1996, Mr. Steffen served as the Vice
      Chairman and Director of Citicorp and its principal subsidiary, Citibank, N.A.
      In 1993, Mr. Steffen served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
      of Eastman Kodak. From 1989 to 1993, Mr. Steffen served as Executive Vice
      President and Chief Financial and Administrative Officer and Director of
      Honeywell, Inc. Mr. Steffen serves as director of Accelrys, Inc. He formerly
      served as Chairman of the board of directors of Veltri Metal Products, director
      and Chairman of the audit committee of Seminis, Inc. and as director and
      Chairman of the audit committee of UCMS Pty. 

Jack
        D. Furst    
        has been
        a Partner of Hicks, Muse, Tate   Furst Incorporated since 1989, the year in
        which it was formed. Mr. Furst has approximately 20 years experience in
        leveraged acquisitions and private investments. Mr. Furst is involved in
        all
        aspects of HMTF s business and has been actively involved in originating,
        structuring and monitoring its investments. Prior to joining HMTF, Mr. Furst
        served as a Vice President and subsequently a Partner of Hicks   Haas from
        1987 to 1989. From 1984 to 1986, Mr. Furst was a Merger and
        Acquisitions/Corporate Finance Specialist for The First Boston Corporation
        in
        New York. Before joining First Boston, Mr. Furst was a Financial Consultant
        at
        PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mr. Furst serves on the Boards of Directors of Home
        Interiors   Gifts, Inc. and Activant Solutions Inc.  

Andrew
      S. Rosen    ,
      is a
      Partner of Hicks, Muse, Tate and Furst, Incorporated and has been with the
      firm since 1993. Mr. Rosen has over 15 years of private equity experience.
      Prior
      to joining HMTF, Mr. Rosen was with The Carlyle Group. Mr. Rosen is a graduate
      of the University of Pennsylvania and the Wharton School of
      Business. 

Robert
      F. Cummings, Jr     .        has
      been
      a director since January 2003. Mr. Cummings joined GSCP (NJ), Inc. ( GSC )
      in 2002 as Senior Managing Director and is Chairman of the GSC Risk Committee
      and a former member of the GSC Advisory Board. For the prior 28 years, Mr.
      Cummings was with Goldman, Sachs   Co., where he was a member of the
      Corporate Finance Department, advising corporate clients on financing, mergers
      and acquisitions and strategic financial issues. Mr. Cummings was named a
      Partner of Goldman Sachs in 1986. He retired in 1998 and was retained as an
      Advisory Director by Goldman, Sachs   Co. to work with certain clients on a
      variety of banking matters. Mr. Cummings is a director of ATSI Holdings, GSC
      Capital Corp., Precision Partners, Inc. and RR Donnelley   Sons
      Company. 

Diane
      H. Gulyas    
      has been
      a director since January 2003. Ms. Gulyas is Chief Marketing   Sales
      Officer of E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company and has held such position since
      April 2004. Before being appointed Chief Marketing   Sales Officer, she was
      Group Vice President of DuPont Electronics and Communication Technologies,
      a
      position she had held since February 2002. Prior to that appointment, Ms. Gulyas
      served as Vice President and General Manager of the DuPont Advanced Fibers
      Businesses. Since 1978, Ms. Gulyas has held various positions with DuPont
      including Executive Assistant to the Chairman of the board and Global Business
      Director. 

Robert
      A. Hamwee    
      has been
      a director since January 2003. Mr. Hamwee joined GSC at its inception in
      1994 and became a Managing Director in 2000. He currently manages the day-to-day
      activities of the controlled distressed debt securities group. Mr. Hamwee was
      previously with The Blackstone Group from 1992 to 1994 where he worked in the
      Merchant Banking Division. In addition, he worked on a wide range of assignments
      in the Mergers and Acquisitions and Restructuring Departments. Mr. Hamwee is
      Chairman of the board of APW Ltd. and ATSI Holdings. Mr. Hamwee also currently
      serves as a director of the following companies: Burke Industries, Inc., Dukes
      Place Holdings, L.P., International Wire Group, Inc., Precision Partners, Inc.,
      Seaton Insurance Company and Stonewall Insurance Company.  

Richard
      A. McGinn    
      has been
      a director since January 2003. Mr. McGinn has been a General Partner at RRE
      Ventures (a private company that invests in entrepreneurial information
      technology companies) since August 2001. From 1997 to October 2000,
      Mr. McGinn served as Chief Executive Officer of Lucent Technologies, Inc. From
      1996 to 1997, Mr. McGinn served as President of Lucent Technologies, Inc. Mr.
      McGinn is a director of American Express Company. 

Richard
      W. Vieser    
      has been
      a director since 1997. Mr. Vieser is the retired Chairman of the board of Varian
      Medical Systems where he served from April 1999 to February 2003. From
      June 1985 to December 1989, Mr. Vieser served as Chairman of the board
      and Chief Executive Officer of FL Industries, Inc. (a manufacturer of electrical
      components). From September 1986 to December 1989, Mr. Vieser served
      as Chairman of the board and Chief Executive Officer of FL Aerospace (a
      manufacturer and developer of aviation lighting). From March 1987 to
      December 1989, Mr. Vieser served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive
      Officer of Lear Siegler, Inc. (a diversified manufacturing company). From
      April 1984 through June 1985, he served as President and Chief
      Operating Officer of McGraw-Edison Company. Mr. Vieser is Chairman Emeritus
      of
      Varian Medical Systems and is a director of Fisher Scientific.  

David
      M. Sindelar    
      has been
      a director since August 2001 and Chief Executive Officer since
      July 2001. Mr. Sindelar served as a director and executive officer when we
      filed for bankruptcy under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code
      and
      throughout the bankruptcy proceedings described in  Our Bankruptcy and
      Reorganization.  He is the managing partner of Hanley Partners, Inc. (a firm
      that specializes in the acquisition and operation of commercial and industrial
      manufacturing companies). He also served as Senior Vice President from
      January 1997 through June 2001 and Chief Financial Officer since our
      inception through June 2001. Mr. Sindelar was Chief Executive Officer of
      International Wire Group, Inc. (a designer, manufacturer and marketer of bare
      and tin-plated copper wire and insulated copper wire) from July 2001 to
      September 2003, which filed for protection under chapter 11 of the United
      States Bankruptcy Code on March 24, 2004. He was Chief Executive Officer of
      LLS Corp. from August 1999 to November 2002, which filed for
      protection under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code on
      January 16, 2002. Mr. Sindelar was Senior Vice President and Chief
      Financial Officer of Berg Electronics Corp. from March 1993 through
      October 1998 and of Crain Industries, Inc. and Crain Holdings Corp. (a
      manufacturer, fabricator and distributor of polyurethane foam and foam products)
      from August 1995 through December 1997 and of Jackson Holding Company
      from February 1993 through August 1995. 

Timothy
      L. Conlon    
      has been
      a director, President and Chief Operating Officer since October 1998. Mr.
      Conlon served as a director and executive officer when we filed for bankruptcy
      under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and throughout the
      bankruptcy proceedings described in  Our Bankruptcy and Reorganization.  He is a
      partner of Hanley Partners, Inc. Prior to joining us, Mr. Conlon was employed
      as
      President and Chief Operating Officer of Berg Electronics Corp. from
      January 1997 through October 1998. Mr. Conlon also served as Executive
      Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Berg Electronics Group, Inc.,
      a
      wholly-owned subsidiary of Berg Electronics Corp., from October 1993
      through January 1997. Prior to joining Berg Electronics Group, Inc., Mr.
      Conlon was employed as President of the Cutting and Welding Division of
      Thermadyne Industries, Inc. from April 1993 through October 1993.
      Prior to joining Thermadyne Industries, Inc., Mr. Conlon spent nine years in
      the
      electronic connector industry including serving as General Manager of the
      Information Technologies and Spectra strip divisions of Amphenol Corporation
      from 1990 through July 1992 and President of Cambridge Products (a
      manufacturer of electronic and communications connector products) from 1988
      through 1989. 

David
      J. Webster    
      was
      named as the President of the Company s wire harness division in June of 2005.
      Mr. Webster has also serves as Chief Administrative Officer since May 2004.
      Mr.
      Webster served as an executive officer when we filed for bankruptcy under
      chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and throughout the bankruptcy
      proceedings described in  Our Bankruptcy and Reorganization.  He also served as
      Senior Vice President from 1997 through May 2004. From 1997 to 2004, Mr. Webster
      was an executive officer of International Wire Group, Inc., which filed for
      protection under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code on
      March 24, 2004. Mr. Webster has been a partner of Hanley Partners, Inc.
      since its inception in 2001. From August 1999 through November 2002,
      Mr. Webster was Senior Vice President and a member of the board of directors
      of
      LLS Corp., which filed for protection under chapter 11 of the United States
      Bankruptcy Code on January 16, 2002. From 1997 through 2001, Mr. Webster
      was a partner of Mills   Partners, Inc., and from 1997 through 1998 served
      as Senior Vice President of Berg Electronics Corp. During 1997, Mr. Webster
      served as Senior Vice President of Crain Industries, Inc. Prior to 1997, Mr.
      Webster was a partner in the law firm of Weil, Gotshal   Manges
      LLP. 

Gerald
      G. Sax    
      has been
      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2005. Mr. Sax
      served as Senior Vice President   
        Supply
      Chain from February 2003 to August 2005. He also served as Senior Vice President
        Europe from July 1999 to January 2003. Mr. Sax served as an
      executive officer when we filed for bankruptcy under chapter 11 of the United
      States Bankruptcy Code and throughout the bankruptcy proceedings described
      in
 Our Bankruptcy and Reorganization.  Mr. Sax joined us in November 1998 in
      the position of Vice President   Corporate Controller. Prior to joining us, Mr.
      Sax was Vice President   Corporate Controller for Berg Electronics Corp. from
      September 1995 to October 1998. 

Steven
      S.L. Tang    
      has been
      President   Asia Pacific since June 1999 and is responsible for the overall
      operations of our facilities on the continent of Asia. Mr. Tang served as an
      executive officer when we filed for bankruptcy under chapter 11 of the United
      States Bankruptcy Code and throughout the bankruptcy proceedings described
      in
 Our Bankruptcy and Reorganization.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Tang served as a
      Managing Director for the Asian division of Utilux Asia Limited, an Australian
      connector manufacturing company, from January 1995 to July 1999. Prior
      to 1995, Mr. Tang held various positions, all in Asia, with companies such
      as
      Amphenol, Pace Inc., National Semiconductor and Honeywell. Mr. Tang is a
      director of Wanji Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited. 

Code
      of Ethics and Business Conduct  

The
      Company has adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to its Chief Executive Officer
      and senior financial officers. A copy of the Code of Ethics has been filed
      with
      the SEC as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
      year ended December 31, 2005. 

ITEM
      11.      Executive
      Compensation         

Compensation
      of Directors and Executive Officers  

The
      Chairman of the Board receives an annual fee of $120,000 and directors (other
      than the Chairman) who are not executive officers receive an annual fee of
      $30,000. In addition, each compensation and audit Committee Member receives
      an
      annual fee of $10,000 and the Chairman of the compensation and audit Committee
      receives an additional fee of $5,000. Directors are reimbursed for out-of-pocket
      expenses incurred in connection with attending meetings of the board and its
      committees and receive a per diem fee of $1,000 for additional time spent on
      our
      business beyond six regular meetings during a calendar year. We also have
      granted 55,000 stock options with an exercise price of $12.63, which vest over
      a
      period of three years, to each of our non-employee directors as compensation
      for
      their services as members of our board. In addition, the Chairman of the Board
      received an additional 50,000 options with an exercise price of $12.63, which
      vest over a period of three years. 

The
      following table sets forth the cash and non-cash compensation earned during
      the
      years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 by our Chief Executive Officer
      and our four other most highly compensated executive officers. 

Summary
      Compensation Table  

__________ 

(2)    
             
                Reflects
                options granted under our 2003 Stock Option
                Plan. 

(3)    
             
                We
                provide perquisites and other personal benefits to certain executives.
                The
                aggregate incremental costs of these benefits to us do not exceed
                the
                lesser of either $50,000 or 10% of the total of annual salary and
                bonus
                reported for each executive officer.  

Aggregated
      Option Exercises in 2005 and Year End Option Values   

The
      following table summarizes the number of options exercised during the year
      ended
      December 31, 2005 for the above named executive officers and the value of
      unexercised options as of December 31, 2005. 

(1)     Based
      on
      a fair market value of $9.00 per share, which was determined to be a reasonable
      estimate of Group's stock price as of October 1, 2004, the date of rights
      offering. For more information on the rights offering, see Note 20 of the
      consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2005, none of the
      options held by the named executive officers were in-the-money. 

Benefit
      Plans  

2003
      Stock Option Plan   

The
      Group
      2003 Stock Option Plan provides for the award of incentive stock options, or
      ISOs, and non-qualified stock options, or NSOs. Subject to adjustment in the
      event of certain corporate transactions or events, a maximum of 2,777,778 shares
      of Group s common stock is issuable under the 2003 Stock Option Plan. As of
      December 31, 2005, options to purchase an aggregate of 2,698,800 shares of
      common stock were outstanding. The exercise price of all outstanding options
      is
      $12.63 per share. Options issued under the plan that expire, are forfeited
      or
      otherwise terminate will again be available for grant under the 2003 Stock
      Option Plan. The plan is administered by the compensation committee of the
      board
      of directors of Group. 

Generally,
      each option granted under the 2003 Stock Option Plan is required to expire
      on or
      before the tenth anniversary of the date of grant. The exercise price of each
      ISO is required to be not less than 100% of the fair market value of the
      underlying stock subject to the option on the date of grant. This minimum
      exercise price provision is increased, and other conditions and restrictions
      apply, with respect to awards granted to persons who own or are deemed to own
      more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of
      Group. 

The
      2003
      Stock Option Plan provides for payment of the exercise price of options in
      the
      form of cash or, subject to the discretion of the compensation committee of
      the
      board of directors of Group, by delivery of shares of Group common
      stock. 

The
      2003
      Stock Option Plan provides for the grant of ISOs only to employees of Group
      and
      its affiliates. NSOs may be granted to employees, or other persons providing
      services for Group or its affiliates. 

Incentive
      Compensation Plan   

Officers
      and other key employees designated by our chief executive officer are eligible
      to participate in our annual incentive compensation plan. The plan is
      administered by the compensation committee of our board of directors and
      participants under the plan may receive cash awards based on annual performance
      targets set by the compensation committee. The compensation committee may also
      make discretionary awards under the plan. The plan remains effective until
      terminated by the compensation committee. 

Option
      Grants to Certain Non-Employee Directors   

During
      2003, certain non-employee members of our board of directors, consisting of
      Mr.
      Steffen, Ms. Gulyas, Mr. McGinn and Mr. Vieser, were granted an option to
      purchase 55,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $12.63 per
      share. 

During
      2004, Mr. Steffen was granted an additional option to purchase 50,000 shares
      of
      our common stock at an exercise price of $12.63 per share. 

Employment
      Agreements  

David
      M. Sindelar Executive Employment Agreement   

Mr.
      David
      M. Sindelar entered into an amended and restated executive employment agreement
      with Group and certain of its subsidiaries as of October 13, 2003, as amended.
      Pursuant to his employment agreement, Mr. Sindelar will serve as Chief Executive
      Officer of Group through January 31, 2007, unless terminated earlier by Group
      or
      Mr. Sindelar. Mr. Sindelar is required to devote the amount of time reasonably
      necessary to faithfully and adequately supervise the overall management of
      Group
      and its subsidiaries. Subject to the foregoing limitation on his activities,
      Mr.
      Sindelar is free to participate in other business endeavors. 

The
      compensation provided to Mr. Sindelar under his executive employment agreement
      includes an annual base salary of not less than $920,000 (reduced by any amount
      of salary actually received by Mr. Sindelar in respect of his severance
      arrangement with International Wire Group, Inc. from October 13, 2003 to April
      15, 2005), subject to upward adjustment at the sole discretion of the chairman
      of the board of directors of Group, and additional compensation that may be
      used
      by Mr. Sindelar to own and maintain an automobile, as well as those other
      benefits customarily accorded the executives of Group as long as the executive
      employment agreement is in force. In addition, Mr. Sindelar is entitled to
      an
      annual bonus in an amount determined in accordance with our incentive
      compensation plan for senior executives. 

Mr.
      Sindelar's executive employment agreement also provides that if Mr. Sindelar's
      employment is terminated without cause, Mr. Sindelar will continue to receive
      his then current salary, which shall not be less than $920,000, together with
      his annual bonus amount, for a period of eighteen months following such
      termination. The executive employment agreement terminates upon Mr. Sindelar's
      death or his inability to perform his duties due to mental or physical
      incapacity for six consecutive months or any one hundred working days out of
      a
      twelve month period, and no further compensation shall be payable except that
      he
      or his estate, heirs or beneficiaries, as applicable, shall receive his then
      current salary, together with his annual bonus amount, for a period of 18
      months, in addition to benefits otherwise specifically provided for. The
      agreement also provides medical benefits for his and his spouse's
      lifetime. 

Timothy
      L. Conlon Executive Employment Agreement   

Mr.
      Timothy L. Conlon entered into an amended and restated executive employment
      agreement with Group and certain of its subsidiaries as of January 31, 2003.
      Pursuant to his employment agreement, Mr. Conlon will serve as President and
      Chief Operating Officer of Group through January 31, 2007, unless terminated
      earlier by Group or Mr. Conlon. Mr. Conlon is required to devote the amount
      of
      time reasonably necessary to faithfully and adequately supervise the overall
      financial management of Group. 

The
      compensation provided to Mr. Conlon under his executive employment agreement
      includes an annual base salary of not less than $550,000, subject to upward
      adjustment at the sole discretion of the Chief Executive Officer of Group,
      and
      additional compensation that may be used by Mr. Conlon to own and maintain
      an
      automobile, as well as those other benefits customarily accorded the executives
      of Group as long as the executive employment agreement is in force. In addition,
      Mr. Conlon is entitled to an annual bonus in an amount determined in accordance
      with our incentive compensation plan for senior executives. 

Mr.
      Conlon's executive employment agreement also provides that if Mr. Conlon's
      employment is terminated without cause, Mr. Conlon will continue to receive
      his
      then current salary, which shall not be less than $550,000, together with his
      annual bonus amount, for a period of eighteen months following such termination.
      The executive employment agreement terminates upon Mr. Conlon's death or his
      inability to perform his duties due to mental or physical incapacity for six
      consecutive months or any one hundred working days out of a twelve month period,
      and no further compensation shall be payable except that he or his estate,
      heirs
      or beneficiaries, as applicable, shall receive his then current salary for
      a
      period of eighteen months, in addition to benefits otherwise specifically
      provided for. The agreement also provides medical benefits for his and his
      spouse's lifetime. 

David
      J. Webster Executive Employment Agreement   

Mr.
      David
      J. Webster entered into an amended and restated executive employment agreement
      with Group and certain of its subsidiaries as of January 31, 2003. Pursuant
      to
      his employment agreement, Mr. Webster will serves as Chief Administrative
      Officer of Group through January 31, 2007, unless terminated earlier by Group
      or
      Mr. Webster. Mr. Webster is required to devote the amount of time reasonably
      necessary to faithfully and adequately supervise the overall management of
      Group
      and its subsidiaries. Subject to the foregoing limitation on his activities,
      Mr.
      Webster is free to participate in other business endeavors. 

The
      compensation provided to Mr. Webster under his executive employment agreement
      includes an annual base salary of not less than $470,000 subject to upward
      adjustment at the sole discretion of the Chief Executive Officer of Group,
      and
      additional compensation that may be used by Mr. Webster to own and maintain
      an
      automobile, as well as those other benefits customarily accorded the executives
      of Group as long as the executive employment agreement is in force. In addition,
      Mr. Webster is entitled to an annual bonus in an amount determined in accordance
      with our incentive compensation plan for senior executives. 

Mr.
      Webster's executive employment agreement also provides that if Mr. Webster's
      employment is terminated without cause, Mr. Webster will continue to receive
      his
      then current salary, which shall not be less than $470,000, together with his
      annual bonus amount, for a period of eighteen months following such termination.
      The executive employment agreement terminates upon Mr. Webster's death or his
      inability to perform his duties due to mental or physical incapacity for six
      consecutive months or any one hundred working days out of a twelve month period,
      and no further compensation shall be payable except that he or his estate,
      heirs
      or beneficiaries, as applicable, shall receive his then current salary, together
      with his annual bonus amount, for a period of 18 months, in addition to benefits
      otherwise specifically provided for. The agreement also provides medical
      benefits for his and his spouse's lifetime. 

On
      June
      15, 2005, in addition to his office as Chief Administrative Officer, Mr. Webster
      was named as the President of the company s wire harness division and his
      employment agreement was amended, conditioned upon the sale of the wire harness
      business. Additionally, on June 15, 2005, Group and Mr. Webster entered into
      a
      Letter Agreement that entitles Mr. Webster to an employment agreement payout
      and
      a transaction bonus of $995,987 upon consummation of the sale of the wire
      harness business. 

Gerald
      G. Sax Executive Employment Agreement   

Mr.
      Gerald G. Sax entered into an amended and restated executive employment
      agreement with Group and certain of its subsidiaries as of August 15, 2005.
      Pursuant to his employment agreement Mr. Sax will serve as Senior Vice President
      and Chief Financial Officer of Group until his termination pursuant to the
      terms
      of his employment agreement. Mr. Sax is required to devote the amount of time
      reasonably necessary to faithfully and adequately supervise the overall
      financial management of Group. 

The
      compensation provided to Mr. Sax under his executive employment agreement
      includes an annual base salary of not less that $360,000, subject to upward
      adjustment at the sole discretion of the Chief Executive Officer of Group,
      and
      additional compensation that may be used by Mr. Sax to own and maintain an
      automobile, as well as those other benefits customarily accorded the executives
      of Group as long as the executive employment agreement is in force. In addition,
      Mr. Sax is entitled to an annual bonus in an amount determined in accordance
      with our annual incentive compensation plan for such executives. 

Mr.
      Sax s
      employment agreement also provides that if Mr. Sax s employment is terminated
      without cause, Mr. Sax will continue to receive his then current salary, which
      shall not be less than $360,000 for a period of eighteen months following such
      termination. The executive employment agreement terminates upon Mr. Sax s death
      or his inability to perform his duties due to mental or physical incapacity
      for
      six consecutive months or any one hundred working days out of a twelve month
      period, and no further compensation shall be payable except that he or his
      estate, heirs or beneficiaries, as applicable, shall receive his then current
      salary for a period of eighteen months, in addition to benefits otherwise
      specifically provided for. The agreement also provides medical benefits for
      his
      and his spouse s lifetime. 

Compensation
      Committee Report on Executive Compensation  

Compensation
      Committee Responsibility and Policies  

Group
      has
      established a compensation committee that consists of four directors. Each
      member of the Compensation Committee is a non-employee director within the
      meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act and an outside director within
      the
      meaning of Section 162(m) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
      The Compensation Committee annually reviews and recommends to the full Board
      of
      Directors of Group compensation for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating
      Officer, Chief Financial Officer and each of the five most highly compensated
      executive officers of the Company,       including,
      without limitation, (a) the annual base salary, (b) the annual incentive bonus,
      including the specific goals and amount, (c) equity compensation, (d) employment
      agreements, severance arrangements, and change in control agreements/provisions,
      and (e) any other benefits, compensation or arrangements. In recommending
      compensation for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief
      Financial Officer and each of the five most highly compensated executive
      officers of the Company, the Committee sets annual performance related
      goals. 

The
      Company s executive compensation program is designed to enable the Company to
      recruit, retain and motivate the high quality employees it needs. As a result,
      the Compensation Committee has determined that executive compensation
      opportunities should create incentives for superior performance. 

The
      Company s executive compensation mix includes a base salary, annual   bonus
      awards and stock options. Through this compensation structure, the Company
      aims
      to: 

attract
                and retain highly qualified and talented
                executives, 

provide
                appropriate incentives to motivate executives to maximize stockholder
                returns by producing sustained superior performance,
                and 

reward
                them for outstanding individual contributions to the achievement
                of the
                Company s near-term and long-term business
                objectives. 

The
      Compensation Committee s policy is that a significant portion of the executive s
      compensation opportunities must be tied to achievement of annual objectives
      of
      the Company. Executive officers and other key employees are eligible to
      participate in the Company s annual incentive compensation plan. Under the plan,
      executive officers and other key employees may receive increasing cash bonuses
      based on reaching annual performance target thresholds set by the Compensation
      Committee. The Compensation Committee may make discretionary awards under the
      plan. As of December 31, 2005, the Company reached and exceeded its minimum
      performance target, and the bonuses were approved by the Compensation
      Committee based on the thresholds achieved. A total of 125,000 stock
      options were awarded to executive officers in 2005.  

Compensation
      of the Chief Executive Officer  

The
      Compensation Committee regards compensation of the Chief Executive Officer
      to be
      among its most important responsibilities. The Chief Executive Officer should
      be
      properly incentivized and properly rewarded. The Compensation Committee gives
      incentive to the Chief Executive Officer to lead the business in a direction
      that will maximize stockholder value over the long-term, not just the next
      year. 

In
      structuring and reviewing the Chief Executive Officer compensation, the
      Compensation Committee considered the Company s financial performance in Fiscal
      2003 and 2004, stockholder return, the total compensation package and value
      of
      incentive awards to Chief Executive Officer s at comparable companies, and Mr.
      Sindelar s performance during his tenure with the Company. 

Mr.
      David
      M. Sindelar became the Chief Executive officer in July of 2001. For 2005, Mr.
      Sindelar was paid an annual salary of $860,661 and an annual bonus of $533,600
      paid under Group s annual incentive compensation plan. Mr. Sindelar s bonus was
      determined based on, among other things, the financial performance target
      thresholds reached by the Company and other factors, including, but not limited
      to, his involvement in pursuing management s objectives relative to the overall
      performance of the Company.  

THE
                COMPENSATION COMMITTEE 

Richard
                A. McGinn - Chair 

Andrew
                S. Rosen - Member 

Robert
                A. Hamwee - Member 

Christopher
                J. Steffen - Member 

ITEM
      12.      Security
      Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management        

Group
      owns 100% of our capital stock. The following table sets forth, as of
      December 31, 2005, information regarding the beneficial ownership of
      Group's common stock by each person who beneficially owned more than 5% of
      any
      class of Group's voting securities and by its directors and named executive
      officers, individually, and by its directors and executive officers as a
      group. 

__________ 

*
      Represents less than 1%  

(1)    
             
                Beneficial
                ownership is determined in accordance with the rules of the Securities
                and
                Exchange Commission and generally includes voting or investment power
                with
                respect to securities. Shares of common stock and options, warrants
                or
                other convertible securities (such as the class B senior convertible
                preferred stock) that are currently exercisable or exercisable within
                60
                days of December 31, 2005, are deemed to be outstanding and to be
                beneficially owned by the person holding those options, warrants
                or other
                convertible securities for the purpose of computing the percentage
                ownership of that person, but are not treated as outstanding for
                the
                purpose of computing the percentage ownership of any other
                person. 

(2)    
             
                These
                figures include: 

3,454,094
                shares of common stock held of record by Hicks, Muse, Tate   Furst
                Equity Fund III, L.P., a limited partnership, of which the ultimate
                general partner is Hicks, Muse Fund III Incorporated, an affiliate
                of
                HMTF. 

93,681
                shares of common stock held of record by HM3 Coinvestors, L.P., a
                limited
                partnership of which the ultimate general partner is Hicks, Muse
                Fund III
                Incorporated, an affiliate of HMTF. 

601,355
                shares of common stock held of record by HMTF Equity Fund IV (1999),
                L.P.,
                a limited partnership of which the ultimate general partner is Hicks,
                Muse
                (1999) Fund IV, LLC, an affiliate of
                HMTF. 

32,014
                shares of common stock held of record by Hicks, Muse PG- IV (1999),
                C.V.,
                of which the ultimate general partner is HM Fund IV Cayman, LLC,
                an
                affiliate of HMTF. 

14,785
                shares of common stock held of record by HM 4-SBS (1999) Coinvestors,
                L.P.
                a limited partnership of which the ultimate general partner is Hicks,
                Muse
                (1999) Fund IV, LLC, an affiliate of
                HMTF. 

9,826
                shares of common stock held of record by HM 4-EQ (1999) Coinvestors,
                L.P.,
                a limited partnership of which the ultimate general partner is Hicks,
                Muse
                (1999) Fund IV, LLC, an affiliate of
                HMTF. 

4,259
                shares of common stock held of record by HMTF Private Equity Fund
                IV
                (1999), L.P., a limited partnership of which the ultimate general
                partner
                is Hicks, Muse (1999) Fund IV, LLC, an affiliate of
                HMTF. 

9,873,369
                shares of common stock and 2,177,356 shares of class B senior convertible
                preferred stock (currently convertible into 2,815,134 shares of common
                stock) held of record by Pearl Street II, L.P., a limited partnership
                of
                which the ultimate general partner is Hicks, Muse Fund III Incorporated,
                an affiliate of HMTF. 

(3)    
             
                These
                figures include:  

GSC
      Recovery II, L.P. ( Recovery II ) owns 4,160,887 shares of common stock (which
      includes 2,893,887 shares of common stock and 1,267,000 shares of common stock
      issuable upon conversion of 979,957 shares of Class B Senior Convertible
      Preferred Stock); GSC Recovery IIA, L.P. ( Recovery IIA ) owns 5,007,889 shares
      of common stock (which includes 4,357,448 shares of common stock and 650,613
      shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of 503,215 shares of Class
      B
      Senior Convertible Preferred Stock); GSC Partners CDO Fund, Limited ( CDO ) owns
      654,801 shares of the Company s common stock; and GSC Partners CDO Fund II,
      Limited ( CDO II ) owns 459,408 shares of the Company s common stock. By virtue
      of his relationship (described below) with Recovery II, Recovery IIA, CDO,
      and
      CDO II, Mr. Hamwee may be deemed to have shared voting and investment power
      over, and be the indirect beneficial owner of, the shares of common stock of
      the
      Company owned by Recovery II, Recovery IIA, CDO, and CDO II. Mr. Hamwee
      disclaims beneficial ownership of the Company s common stock except to the
      extent of his pecuniary interest in such stock.  

Recovery
      II is a Delaware limited partnership. GSC Recovery II GP, L.P. is the general
      partner of Recovery II. GSC RII, LLC is the general partner of GSC Recovery
      II
      GP, L.P. GSCP (NJ) Holdings, L.P. is the managing member of GSC RII, LLC. GSCP
      (NJ), L.P. is the manager of Recovery II. GSCP (NJ), Inc. is the general partner
      of GSCP (NJ), L.P. and GSCP (NJ) Holdings, L.P.  

Recovery
      IIA is a Delaware limited partnership. GSC Recovery IIA GP, L.P. is the general
      partner of Recovery IIA. GSC RIIA, LLC is the general partner of GSC Recovery
      IIA GP, L.P. GSCP (NJ) Holdings, L.P. is the managing member of GSC RIIA, LLC.
      GSCP (NJ), L.P. is the manager of Recovery IIA. GSCP (NJ), Inc. is the general
      partner of GSCP (NJ), L.P. and GSCP (NJ) Holdings, L.P.  

CDO
      and
      CDO II are Cayman Islands corporations. GSCP (NJ), L.P. is the collateral
      manager of CDO and CDO II; GSCP (NJ), Inc. is the general partner of GSCP (NJ),
      L.P. 

Each
      of
      Keith W. Abell, Alfred C. Eckert III, Robert A. Hamwee, Richard M. Hayden,
      Frederick H. Horton, Thomas V. Inglesby, Matthew C. Kaufman, Christine K. Vanden
      Beukel, and Andrew J. Wagner are the executive officers and stockholders of
      GSCP
      (NJ), Inc. and the limited partners of GSCP (NJ), L.P. and GSCP (NJ) Holdings,
      L.P. 

By
      virtue
      of each of the above entities  and individuals  relationship with Recovery II,
      Recovery IIA, CDO and CDO II, each may be deemed to have shared voting and
      investment power over, and be the indirect beneficial owner of, the shares
      of
      common stock of the Company owned by Recovery II, Recovery IIA, CDO and CDO
      II.
      Each of the above entities and individuals disclaims beneficial ownership of
      the
      Company s common stock except to the extent of each entity s and individual s
      pecuniary interest in such common stock.  

(4)    
             
                Mr.
                Furst is a partner, stockholder and member of the management committee
                of
                HMTF and, accordingly, may be deemed to beneficially own all or a
                portion
                of the shares of Holding Common Stock beneficially owned by the HMTF
                Parties described above. Mr. Furst disclaims beneficial ownership
                of
                shares of Group s Common Stock not owned of record by
                him. 

(5)    
             
                These
                figures include:  

The
      Fidelity entities identified above are either an investment company or a
      portfolio of an investment company registered under Section 8 of the Investment
      Company Act of 1940, as amended, or a private investment account advised by
      Fidelity Management   Research Company ( FMR Co. ). FMR Co. is a
      Massachusetts corporation and an investment advisor registered under Section
      203
      of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and provides investment
      advisory services to each of such Fidelity entities identified above, and to
      other registered investment companies and to certain other funds which are
      generally offered to a limited group of investors. FMR Co. is a wholly-owned
      subsidiary of FMR Corp., a Delaware corporation. 

(6)    
             
                Represents
                shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of options that
                are
                exercisable within 60 days. 

ITEM
      13.      Certain
      Relationships And Related Transactions        

Purchases
      from International Wire Group, Inc.  

In
        March 2000, Viasystems acquired the wire harness business of International
        Wire,, which at the time was an affiliate of HMTF. Our wire harness operations,
        in accordance with a supply agreement entered into in connection with our
        acquisition of the wire harness business, purchased an aggregate of $42.1
        million of insulated wire products from International Wire in the year ended
        December 31, 2005. The terms of the supply agreement are consistent with
        terms prevailing in an arms length transaction. The negotiated terms of the
        supply agreement include the pricing, purchase commitment, payment, quality
        and
        liability terms. On December 31, 2005, the supply agreement with
        International Wire expired by its terms. On March 21, 2006, Viasystems agreed
        to
        sell its wire harness business. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
        Financial Condition and Results of Operations Recent Developments . 

Mr.
        Hamwee and Mr. Cummings, both members of our board of directors, are affiliates
        of GSC. GSC owns 16.9% of International Wire and Mr. Hamwee is a member of
        the
        Board of Directors of International Wire. As of November 2004, HMTF was no
        longer affiliated with International Wire. 

Under
        the
        terms of the purchase agreement, International Wire agreed to indemnify
        Viasystems for various matters associated with the pre-acquisition operations
        of
        the wire harness business, including product liability claims related to
        hose
        assemblies manufactured by one of the acquired companies through 1997. Certain
        claims have been asserted against International Wire by insurers as subrogees
        of
        their insured homeowners with respect to property damages arising from the
        failure of allegedly defective washing machine hose assemblies manufactured
        by
        one of the acquired companies. International Wire and its insurers to date
        have
        defended and/or settled all such claims consistent with their indemnity
        obligations. International Wire filed for protection under chapter 11 of
        the U.S
        Bankruptcy Code on March 24, 2004. On August 5, 2004, International Wire s
        plan of reorganization was confirmed and on October 20, 2004, International
        Wire
        emerged from bankruptcy. Under the terms of International Wire s plan of
        reorganization, it assumed the obligations under its indemnity to us. While
        International Wire has advised us that it believes that it will be financially
        capable of honoring any further claims, there can be no assurance of the
        foregoing, in which case insurers could potentially assert claims directly
        against one of the acquired companies. 

Stockholders
        Agreement  

On
        January 31, 2003, we entered into a Stockholders Agreement with certain persons
        acquiring shares of Group capital stock in connection with the Reorganization,
        including HMTF, which controls a majority of the voting stock of Group, and
        certain affiliates of GSC. 

The
        Stockholders Agreement provides that our board of directors will be comprised
        of
        at least nine members as follows: our chief executive officer; five members
        designated for election by affiliates of HMTF; and three members designated
        for
        election by affiliates of GSC and the other stockholder parties to the
        Stockholders Agreement other than HMTF. In addition, affiliates of HMTF,
        on the
        one hand, and affiliates of GSC and the other stockholder parties to the
        Stockholders Agreement other than HMTF, on the other hand, have the right
        to
        jointly designate additional members to our board of directors. The five
        directors designated by affiliates of HMTF are Mr. Furst, Mr. Rosen, Mr.
        McGinn,
        Mr. Vieser and Mr. Conlon. The three directors designated by affiliates of
        GSC
        and other non-HMTF stockholders are Mr. Cummings, Mr. Hamwee and Ms. Gulyas.
        Mr.
        Steffen is a jointly nominated director and Mr. Sindelar holds the remaining
        seat as our chief executive officer. The Stockholders Agreement also provides
        that the compensation committee of our board of directors will be comprised
        of
        two members designated by the HMTF board designees and one member designated
        by
        the GSC and non-HMTF stockholders  board designees, so long as such individuals
        are qualified to serve in such capacity. 

To
        the
        extent that the affiliates of HMTF or the affiliates of GSC and the other
        non-HMTF stockholders dispose of shares of common stock held by them, such
        constituency s right to designate directors for election (and to appoint
        compensation committee members) shall be reduced as follows: 

Stockholders
      Agreement  

On
      January 31, 2003, we entered into a Stockholders Agreement with certain persons
      acquiring shares of Group capital stock in connection with the Reorganization,
      including HM Capital Partners, which controls a majority of the voting stock
      of
      Group, and certain affiliates of GSC. 

The
      Stockholders Agreement provides that our board of directors will be comprised
      of
      at least nine members as follows: our chief executive officer; five members
      designated for election by affiliates of HM Capital Partners; and three members
      designated for election by affiliates of GSC and the other stockholder parties
      to the Stockholders Agreement other than HM Capital Partners. In addition,
      affiliates of HM Capital Partners, on the one hand, and affiliates of GSC and
      the other stockholder parties to the Stockholders Agreement other than HM
      Capital Partners, on the other hand, have the right to jointly designate
      additional members to our board of directors. The five directors designated
      by
      affiliates of HM Capital Partners are Mr. Furst, Mr. Rosen, Mr. McGinn, Mr.
      Vieser and Mr. Conlon. The three directors designated by affiliates of GSC
      and
      other non-HM Capital Partners stockholders are Mr. Cummings, Mr. Hamwee and
      Ms.
      Gulyas. Mr. Steffen is a jointly nominated director and Mr. Sindelar holds
      the
      remaining seat as our chief executive officer. The Stockholders Agreement also
      provides that the compensation committee of our board of directors will be
      comprised of two members designated by the HM Capital Partners board designees
      and one member designated by the GSC and non-HM Capital Partners stockholders 
board designees, so long as such individuals are qualified to serve in such
      capacity. 

To
      the
      extent that the affiliates of HM Capital Partners or the affiliates of GSC
      and
      the other non-HM Capital Partners stockholders dispose of shares of common
      stock
      held by them, such constituency s right to designate directors for election (and
      to appoint compensation committee members) shall be reduced as
      follows: 

Percentage
                of Common Stock  

                 Disposed
                of by Affiliates of GSC and  

                  Other
                Non-HMTF Stockholders   

Number
                of  

                 Designated  

                  Directors   

Number
                of  

                 Compensation  

                 Committee  

                  Members   

More
                than 30% but equal to or less than 60% 

2 

1 

More
                than 60% but equal to or less than 90% 

1 

1 

More
                than 90% 

0 

0 

Rights
      Offering   

On
      October 7, 2004, Group completed a Rights Offering whereby they sold 5,555,555
      shares of common stock at $9.00 per share to current holders of stock. The
      proceeds, net of issuance costs, of $47.1 million, was contributed to
      Viasystems.  

Monitoring
      and Oversight Agreement  

Viasystems
        entered into a ten-year monitoring and oversight agreement with an affiliate
        of
        HMTF, effective as of January 31, 2003. Under the monitoring and oversight
        agreement, Viasystems is required to pay HMTF an annual fee, payable quarterly,
        for oversight and monitoring services equal to the lesser of (1) 2% of its
        consolidated EBITDA for such year and (2) $1.5 million. The fee is payable
        for
        the preceding year following the completion of the audited financial statements
        for the preceding year, provided that HMTF may elect to defer the payment
        of
        their fees, in which case these amounts will become due and payable at such
        time
        as HMTF elects to require the payment of these obligations. The monitoring
        and
        oversight agreement makes available the resources of HMTF concerning a variety
        of financial and operational matters. Historically, these services have been
        provided not only by Mr. Furst and Mr. Rosen, outside the scope of their
        duties
        as our directors, but also from numerous other principals and employees of
        HMTF.
        Mr. Furst and Mr. Rosen are each principals of HMTF. HMTF has performed various
        monitoring and oversight services, including providing input in management s
        establishment of Viasystems  financial and strategic acquisition plans. HMTF
        monitors the viability and implementation of Viasystems  strategic plan through
        actions such as review of monthly financial data, management briefings and
        facility visits. HMTF is also entitled to reimbursement for any expenses
        incurred by it in connection with rendering services under the monitoring
        and
        oversight agreement. In addition, Viasystems has agreed to indemnify HMTF,
        its
        affiliates, and their respective directors, officers, controlling persons,
        agents and employees from and against all claims, liabilities, losses, damages,
        expenses and fees and disbursements of counsel related to or arising out
        of or
        in connection with the services rendered by HMTF under the monitoring and
        oversight agreement and not resulting primarily from the bad faith, gross
        negligence, or willful misconduct of HMTF. 

Consulting
      Arrangement  

In
      connection with our restructuring activities, commencing December 2001,
      Viasystems, Inc. engaged Katia Advisors LLC to provide sales and marketing
      consulting services related to strategic marketing opportunities. Such services
      were provided on a month-by-month basis and effective December 1, 2004,
      Viasystems, Inc. discontinued using these services. As of December 1, 2004,
      Viasystems had paid Katia Advisors an aggregate of $520,000. These services
      were
      provided by Richard McGinn, a partner of Katia and a member of our board of
      directors. 

ITEM
      14.      Principal
      Accountant Fees and Services        

The
      Audit
      Committee has considered whether the provision by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
      of
      the services covered by the audit fees is compatible with maintaining the firm s
      independence and concluded that it is compatible. 

The
      Audit
      Committee is responsible for pre-approving all auditing services and permitted
      non-auditing services to be performed by the Company s independent
      auditors.   

Principal
      Accounting Fees    

The
      following table sets forth fees billed to the Company during the years ended
      December 31, 2004 and 2005 by the Company s principal accounting firm
      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP: 

(1) 

Includes
                professional services rendered for the audit of the Company s consolidated
                annual financial statements and review of financial statements in
                the
                Company s reports on Form 10-Q and services normally provided in
                connection with various accounting matters and statutory audit services
                and assistance with and review of documents filed with the Securities
                and
                Exchange Commission. 

(2) 

Includes
                professional services rendered for procedures performed in connection
                with
                due diligence and audit for divestitures and consultation concerning
                Sarbanes-Oxley. 

(3) 

Includes
                professional services rendered for preparation of tax returns and
                consultation with the Company on various tax
                matters 

Financial
      Information Systems Design and Implementation Fees  

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP did not perform any services and therefore billed no fees relating to
      operating or supervising the operation of the Company s information systems or
      local area network or for designing or implementing the Company s financial
      information management systems during 2005.  

PART
      IV  

ITEM
      15.      Exhibits,
      Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form
      8-K   

1.
      Financial Statements   

The
      information required by this item is included in Item 8 of Part II of this
      Form
      10-K. 

2.
      Financial Statement Schedule   

Schedule
      II   Valuation and Qualifying
      Accounts   

       For
      the Year Ended December 31  

       (In
      thousands)  

The
      following exhibits are filed as part of this Registration Statement or
      incorporated by reference herein: 

Exhibit
                No   .  

Exhibit
                Description   

2.1 

(1) 

Prepackaged
                Joint Plan of Reorganization of Group, Inc. and Viasystems, Inc.
                under
                chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, dated August 30,
                2002. 

2.1(a) 

(1) 

Amended
                Motion of Debtors for Order Approving Modification to the Debtors 
                Prepackaged Joint Plan of Reorganization, dated January 2,
                2003. 

2.1(b) 

(4) 

Stock
                Purchase Agreement between Electrical Components International Holdings
                Company, Viasystems Group, Inc., Wire Harness Holding Company, Inc.
                and
                Wire Harness Industries, Inc. dated March 21, 2006. 

3.1 

(1) 

Third
                Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Group,
                Inc. 

3.2 

(1) 

Amended
                and Restated Bylaws of Group, Inc. 

3.3 

(3) 

Amended
                and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Viasystems, Inc. 

3.4 

(1) 

Amended
                and Restated Bylaws of Viasystems, Inc. 

4.1 

(1) 

Indenture,
                dated as of December 17, 2003, among Viasystems, Inc., the Guarantors
                party thereto, and The Bank of New York, as Trustee. 

4.2 

(1) 

Form
                of 10 % Senior Subordinated Note (included as Exhibit A to the Indenture
                filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto). 

10.1 

(1) 

Credit
                Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2003, among Group, Inc.,
                Viasystems, Inc., the several banks and other financial institutions
                party
                thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent. 

10.1(a) 

(1) 

First
                Amendment, dated as of March 19, 2003, to the Credit Agreement, dated
                as of January 31, 2003, among Group, Inc., Viasystems, Inc., the
                several banks and other financial institutions party thereto, and
                JPMorgan
                Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent. 

10.1(b) 

(1) 

Second
                Amendment, dated as of December 3, 2003, to the Credit Agreement,
                dated as of January 31, 2003, among Group, Inc., Viasystems, Inc.,
                the several banks and other financial institutions party thereto,
                and
                JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent. 

10.1(c) 

(3) 

Third
                Amendment, dated as of October 7, 2004, to the Credit Agreement,
                dated as of January 31, 2003, among Group, Inc., Viasystems, Inc.,
                the several banks and other financial institutions party thereto,
                and
                JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Administrative Agent. 

10.1(d) 

(3) 

Fourth
                Amendment, dated as of March 17, 2005, to the Credit Agreement, dated
                as
                of January 31, 2003, among Group, Inc., Viasystems, Inc., the several
                banks and other financial institutions party thereto, and JPMorgan
                Chase
                Bank, as Administrative Agent. 

10.2 

(1) 

Guarantee
                and Collateral Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2003, among Group,
                Inc., Viasystems, Inc., the subsidiaries party thereto, and JPMorgan
                Chase
                Bank, as Collateral Agent. 

10.3 

(1) 

Group,
                Inc. 2003 Stock Option Plan. 

10.4 

(1) 

Amended
                and Restated Executive Employment Agreement, dated October 16, 2003,
                among Group, Inc., Viasystems, Inc., Viasystems Technologies Corp.
                LLC,
                the other subsidiaries party thereto, and David M. Sindelar. 

10.5 

(1) 

Amended
                and Restated Executive Employment Agreement, dated January 31, 2003,
                among Group, Inc., Viasystems, Inc., Viasystems Technologies Corp.
                LLC,
                and Timothy L. Conlon. 

Exhibit
              No.   
               
               Exhibit
              Description    

10.6 

(1) 

Amended
                and Restated Executive Employment Agreement, dated January 31, 2003,
                among Group, Inc., Viasystems, Inc., Viasystems Technologies Corp.
                LLC,
                the other subsidiaries party thereto, and David J. Webster. 

10.7 

(4) 

Amended
                and Restated Executive Employment Agreement made and entered into
                effective as of August 15, 2005, among Group, Viasystems, Inc., Viasystems
                Technologies Corp., LLC and Gerald G. Sax. 

10.8 

(1) 

Monitoring
                and Oversight Agreement, made and entered into effective as of
                January 31, 2003, among Group, Inc., Viasystems, Inc., the
                subsidiaries party thereto, and Hicks, Muse   Co. Partners,
                L.P. 

10.9 

(5) 

Letter
                Agreement dated June 15, 2005 between Group and David J.
                Webster 

10.10 

(2) 

Stockholders
                Agreement. 

10.11 

(2) 

Amendment
                to Stockholders Agreement. 

10.12 

(2) 

Annual
                Incentive Compensation Plan. 

10.13 

(6) 

Group
                Stock Option Plan. 

14.1 

(3) 

Code
                of Ethics for the Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial
                Officers filed on Exhibit to Registrant s Report on Form 10-K for the year
                ended December 31, 2004. 

21.1 

(6) 

Subsidiaries
                of the Registrant. 

31.1 

(6) 

Chief
                Executives Officer s Certification required by Rule
                13(a)-14(a). 

31.2 

(6) 

Chief
                Financial Officer s Certification required by Rule
                13(a)-14(a). 

32 

(6) 

Chief
                Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Certification pursuant
                to 18
                U.S.C. 1350, as adopted to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
                of
                2002. 

_________________ 

(6)    
             
                Filed
                herewith. 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
      by
      the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Clayton, State of
      Missouri, on the 31st day of March, 2006. 

Viasystems,
      Inc. 

/s/
                David M. Sindelar 

/s/
                Gerald G. Sax 

David
                M. Sindelar 

Gerald
                G. Sax 

Chief
                Executive Officer  

Senior
                Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

                 Principal
                Accounting Officer  

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1934, this Report on Form 10-K
      has
      been signed by the following persons in the capacities indicated on the 31st
      day
      of March, 2006. 

/s/
                Christopher J. Steffen 

Christopher
                J. Steffen 

Chairman
                of the Board of Directors  

Jack
                D. Furst 

Director  

/s/
                Andrew S. Rosen 

Andrew
                S. Rosen 

Director  

Robert
                F. Cummings, Jr. 

Director  

/s/
                Diane H. Gulyas 

Diane
                H. Gulyas 

Director  

Robert
                A. Hamwee 

Director  

Richard
                A. McGinn 

Director  

/s/
                Richard W. Vieser 

Richard
                W. Vieser 

Director  

/s/
                David M. Sindelar 

David
                M. Sindelar 

Chief
                Executive Officer and Director  

/s/
                Timothy L. Conlon 

Timothy
                L. Conlon 

President,
                Chief Operating Officer and
                Director  

<EX-10.9>
 2
 via10k033106ex109.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.9 LETTER AGREEMENT

Exhibit 10.9 Letter Agreement

Exhibit
      10.9  

June
      15,
      2005 

David
      J.
      Webster 

      101
      S.
      Hanley Road, Suite 400 

      St.
      Louis, MO 63105 

Dear
      Dave: 

Reference
      is hereby made to that certain Amended and Restated Executive Employment
      Agreement dated as of January 31, 2003 by and among Viasystems Group, Inc.
      ( Group  and, together with its subsidiaries parties thereto,  Viasystems ) and
      David J. Webster ( Employee ). Group is currently exploring the sale of the wire
      harness division (the  Division ). In connection therewith, Employee and Wire
      Harness Industries, Inc. entered into an agreement (the  Harness Agreement )
      dated as of June    _15_   ,
      2005. 

Upon
      the
      completion of the sale of the Division, the Harness Agreement becomes
      effective. 

In
      good
      and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
      acknowledged, Employee and Viasystems agree as follows: 

1.      Employment
      Agreement Payout   .
      Upon
      completion of the sale of the Division, Viasystems  obligation under the terms
      and conditions of the Employment Agreement (other than Sections 2(d) and (e)
      which shall survive) shall terminate in exchange for the payment by Viasystems
      to Employee of an amount equal to the product of (a) one half of the purchase
      price multiple (based on the Division s adjusted 2004 stand alone EBITDA and the
      gross sale price) received by Viasystems and (b) Employee s current annual
      salary and bonus opportunity under the Employment Agreement less Employee s
      annual salary and bonus under the Harness Agreement. 

2.      Transaction
      Bonus   .
      In the
      event the sale of the Division is consummated, Employee shall be entitled to
      receive a transaction bonus determined based on the gross proceeds received
      in
      connection with such sale of the Division. Such transaction bonus shall be
      determined as a percentage of Employee s base salary ($470,000) as follows (pro
      rated for amounts between the following threshold amounts): 

The
      aggregate transaction bonus determined in accordance with the preceding
      provisions will be payable by the Company on the date the sale of the Division
      is consummated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employee shall only be
      entitled to receive the applicable transaction bonus payment if the Employee
      is
      employed by the Division on the designated date for such payment, provided
      that
      such payment shall nonetheless be payable to the Employee if the Employee was
      previously terminated by the Company other than for Cause (as defined in the
      Harness Agreement) or the Employee terminates his employment for Good Reason
      (as
      defined in the Harness Agreement). For purposes of the foregoing,  gross
      proceeds  shall mean the sum of (1) the cash purchase price paid by the
      acquirer, (2) the fair value, as determined in good faith by the board of
      directors of the Parent, of any noncash consideration paid by the acquirer,
      and
      (3) the sum of all indebtedness for borrowed money of the Division assumed
      by
      the acquirer. Gross proceeds shall not be reduced or offset by any fees incurred
      by any third party retained by the Company or an affiliate of the Company to
      render professional services related to the Division sale process. 

Very
                truly yours, 

By:
                /s/ David M. Sindelar 

Name: 

David
                M. Sindelar 

Title: 

Chief
                Executive Officer 

Acknowledged
      and accepted as 

      of
      the
      date first written above 

/s/
                David J. Webster 

David
                J. Webster 

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.13>
 3
 via10k033106ex1013.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.13 2003 STOCK OPTION PLAN

Exhibit 10.13 2003 Stock Option Plan

Exhibit
      10.13  

VIASYSTEMS
      GROUP, INC.  

       2003
      STOCK OPTION PLAN  

1.       Purpose   .
      The
      Viasystems Group, Inc. 2003 Stock Option Plan (the  Plan ) is intended to
      provide incentives which will retain and motivate employees of Viasystems Group,
      Inc. (the  Company ) and of any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation now
      existing or hereafter formed or acquired, by providing them opportunities to
      acquire shares of the common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company
      ( Common Stock ). Furthermore, the Plan is intended to assist in aligning the
      interests of such employees to those of the Company s stockholders. 

2.       Administration   . 

(a)      The
      Plan
      will be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
      of
      the Company (the  Committee ). Whenever the Company shall have a class of equity
      securities registered pursuant to section 12       of
      the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), the Committee
      shall be comprised solely of not less than two members who shall be
 Non-Employee Directors  within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) (or any
      successor rule) promulgated under the Exchange Act. The Committee is authorized,
      subject to the provisions of the Plan, to establish such rules and regulations
      as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan and to make
      such
      determinations and interpretations and to take such action in connection with
      the Plan and any Stock Options (as defined below) granted hereunder as it deems
      necessary or advisable, including, but not limited to, accelerating vesting
      or
      exercisability of any Stock Options, extending the term or period of
      exercisability (but in no event beyond ten (10) years after the date it is
      granted) of any Stock Options, reducing the Exercise Price of any Stock Options
      or waiving any terms or conditions applicable to any Stock Options. All
      determinations and interpretations made by the Committee shall be binding and
      conclusive on all participants and their legal representatives. No member of
      the
      Board of Directors of the Company, no member of the Committee and no employee
      of
      the Company shall be liable for any act or failure to act hereunder, except
      in
      circumstances involving his or her bad faith, or for any act or failure to
      act
      hereunder by any other member or employee or by any agent to whom duties in
      connection with the administration of this Plan have been delegated. The Company
      shall indemnify members of the Committee and any agent of the Committee who
      is
      an employee of the Company, against any and all liabilities or expenses to
      which
      they may be subjected by reason of any act or failure to act with respect to
      their duties on behalf of the Plan, except in circumstances involving such
      person s bad faith. 

(b)      The
      Committee may delegate to one or more of its members, or to one or more agents,
      such administrative duties as it may deem advisable, and the Committee, or
      any
      person to whom it has delegated duties as aforesaid, may employ one or more
      persons to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Committee or
      such person may have under the Plan. The Committee may employ such legal or
      other counsel, consultants and agents as it may deem desirable for the
      administration of the Plan and may rely upon any opinion or computation received
      from any such counsel, consultant or agent. Expenses incurred by the Committee
      in the engagement of such counsel, consultant or agent shall be paid by the
      Company, or the subsidiary or affiliate whose employees have benefited from
      the
      Plan, as determined by the Committee. 

3.       Participants   .
      Participants will consist of such employees of and other persons performing
      services for the Company and any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation
      of
      the Company as the Committee in its sole discretion determines to be in a
      position to impact the success and future growth and profitability of the
      Company and whom the Committee may designate from time to time to receive Stock
      Options under the Plan. The Committee shall consider such factors as it deems
      pertinent in selecting participants and in determining the type and amount
      of
      their respective Stock Options. 

4.       Common
      Stock Available Under the Plan.    The
      aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued pursuant to Stock
      Options granted under this Plan shall be    2,777,778   
      shares
      of Common Stock, which may be authorized and unissued or treasury shares,
      subject to any adjustments made in accordance with    Section
      6   .
      Any
      shares of Common Stock that may be issued pursuant to a Stock Option which
      for
      any reason is cancelled or terminated without having been exercised shall again
      be available for issuance pursuant to Stock Options granted under the Plan.
      The
      maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued pursuant
      to Stock Options that may be granted to any single participant within any
      calendar year during the term of the Plan (as set forth in    Section
      16   )
      shall
      be 1,000,000 shares, subject to the adjustments provided in    Section
      6   .
      For
      purposes of the preceding sentence, such Stock Options that are cancelled or
      repriced shall continue to be counted during the calendar year such Stock
      Options were granted in determining such maximum aggregate number of shares
      of
      Common Stock that may be granted to any single participant during the term
      of
      the Plan. 

5.       Stock
      Options.    Stock
      Options  will consist of awards from the Company that will enable the holder to
      purchase a specific number of shares of Common Stock, at set terms and at a
      fixed purchase price. Stock Options may be incentive stock options ( Incentive
      Stock Options ), within the meaning of section 422 of the Code, or Stock Options
      which do not constitute Incentive Stock Options ( Nonqualified Stock Options ).
      The Committee will have the authority to grant to any participant one or more
      Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, or both types of Stock
      Options. Stock Options shall be evidenced by agreements in the form attached
      hereto as    Exhibit
      A   
      or in
      such other forms (which need not be identical) as the Committee may from time
      to
      time approve;    provided,
      however,    that
      in
      the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Plan and any such
      agreements, the provisions of the Plan shall prevail. Each Stock Option shall
      be
      subject to terms and conditions consistent with the Plan as the Committee may
      impose from time to time, subject to the following limitations: 

(a)        Exercise
      Price.    Except
      in
      the case of Stock Options granted through assumption of, or in substitution
      for,
      outstanding stock options previously granted by an acquired company, and except
      as a result of an adjustment event referred to herein, each Stock Option granted
      hereunder shall have such per-share exercise price as the Committee may
      determine at the date of grant, subject to subsection (d) below. 

(b)        Payment
      of Exercise Price.    The
      option exercise price may be paid in cash or, in the discretion of the Committee
      determined at the date of grant, by the delivery of shares of Common Stock
      of
      the Company then owned by the participant, provided such shares have been held
      for at least six (6) months. In the discretion of the Committee, payment may
      also be made by delivering a properly executed exercise notice to the Company
      together with a copy of irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly
      to the Company the amount of sale or loan proceeds to pay the exercise price.
      To
      facilitate the foregoing, the Company may enter into agreements for coordinated
      procedures with one or more brokerage firms. The Committee may prescribe any
      other method of paying the exercise price that it determines to be consistent
      with applicable law and the purpose of the Plan, including, without limitation,
      in lieu of the exercise of a Stock Option by delivery of shares of Common Stock
      of the Company then owned by a participant, providing the Company with a
      notarized statement attesting to the number of shares owned, where, upon
      verification by the Company, the Company would issue to the participant only
      the
      number of incremental shares to which the participant is entitled upon exercise
      of the Stock Option. In determining which methods a participant may utilize
      to
      pay the exercise price, the Committee may consider such factors as it determines
      are appropriate. 

(c)        Exercise
      Period.    Stock
      Options granted under the Plan shall be exercisable at such time or times and
      subject to such terms and conditions, including vesting, as shall be determined
      by the Committee;    provided,
      however,   
      that no
      Stock Option shall be exercisable later than ten (10) years after the date
      it is
      granted. All Stock Options shall terminate at such earlier times and upon such
      conditions or circumstances as the Committee shall in its discretion set forth
      in such option agreement at the date of grant. 

(d)        Limitations
      on Incentive Stock Options.    Incentive
      Stock Options may be granted only to participants who are employees of the
      Company or subsidiary corporation of the Company at the date of grant and the
      per share exercise price may not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value
      of
      the Common Stock at the date of grant. The aggregate market value (determined
      as
      of the time the option is granted) of the Common Stock with respect to which
      Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by a participant
      during any calendar year (under all option plans of the Company) shall not
      exceed $100,000; provided that to the extent stock options issued as Incentive
      Stock Options first become exercisable during a calendar year in excess of
      such
      $100,000 limitation, such excess Stock Option shall be treated as Nonqualified
      Stock Options. For purposes of the preceding sentence, Incentive Stock Options
      will be taken into account in the order in which they are granted. Incentive
      Stock Options may not be granted to any participant who, at the time of grant,
      owns stock possessing (after the application of the attribution rules of section
      424(d) of the Code) more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all
      outstanding classes of stock of the Company or any subsidiary corporation of
      the
      Company, unless the option price is fixed at not less than 110% of the Fair
      Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant and the exercise of such
      option is prohibited by its terms after the expiration of five years from the
      date of grant of such option. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
      herein, no Incentive Stock Option may be exercised later than ten years after
      the date it is granted. 

6.        Adjustment
      Provisions; Change in Control.  

(a)      If
      there
      shall be any change in the Common Stock of the Company, through merger,
      consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split,
      reclassification, split up, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares,
      dividend in kind or other like change in capital structure or distribution
      (other than normal cash dividends) to stockholders of the Company, an adjustment
      shall be made to each outstanding Stock Option such that each such Stock Option
      shall thereafter be exercisable for such securities, cash and/or other property
      as would have been received in respect of the Common Stock subject to such
      Stock
      Option had such Stock Option been exercised in full immediately prior to such
      change or distribution, and such an adjustment shall be made successively each
      time any such change shall occur. In addition, in the event of any such change
      or distribution, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of participants 
rights under the Plan, the Committee will have authority to adjust, in an
      equitable manner, the number and kind of shares that may be issued under the
      Plan, the exercisability and vesting provisions of outstanding Stock Options,
      the exercise price applicable to outstanding Stock Options, and the Fair Market
      Value of the Common Stock and other value determinations applicable to
      outstanding Stock Options. Appropriate adjustments may also be made by the
      Committee in the terms of any Stock Options under the Plan to reflect such
      changes or distributions and to modify any other terms of outstanding Stock
      Options on an equitable basis. In addition the Committee is authorized to make
      adjustments to the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Stock
      Options in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company
      or the financial statements of the Company, or in response to changes in
      applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles. Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, (i) any adjustment with respect to an Incentive Stock Option shall
      comply with the rules of section 424(a) of the Code, and (ii) in no event shall
      any adjustment be made which would render any Incentive Stock Option granted
      hereunder other than an incentive stock option for purposes of section 422
      of
      the Code. 

(b)      In
      the
      event of a Change in Control (as defined below), the Committee, in its
      discretion, may take such actions as it deems appropriate with respect to
      outstanding Stock Options, including, without limitation, accelerating the
      exercisability or vesting of such Stock Options. 

The
      Committee, in its discretion, may determine that, upon the occurrence of a
      Change in Control of the Company, each Stock Option outstanding hereunder shall
      terminate within a specified number of days after notice to the holder and,
      in
      the event any holder does not exercise such holder s Stock Options prior to such
      date of termination, such holder shall receive, with respect to each share
      of
      Common Stock subject to such Stock Option, an amount equal to the excess of
      the
      Fair Market Value of such shares of Common Stock immediately prior to the
      occurrence of such Change in Control over the exercise price per share of such
      Stock Option, such amount to be payable in cash, in one or more kinds of
      property (including the property, if any, payable in the transaction) or in
      a
      combination thereof, as the Committee, in its discretion, shall
      determine. 

A
 Change
      in Control  of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred if, subsequent to
      the Effective Date of this Plan, (A) any  person  (as such term is defined in
      section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) other than Hicks, Muse, Tate   Furst
      Incorporated or its affiliates, employees, officers, directors or successors
      (the  HMTF Group ) is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly,
      of securities of the Company representing a majority of the combined voting
      power of the Company s then outstanding voting securities, (B) a majority of the
      Board of Directors shall consist of persons who are not Continuing Directors
      (as
      defined below), (C) the Company shall merge with or consolidate into any other
      corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the
      holders of the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior
      thereto holding immediately thereafter securities representing more than fifty
      percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the
      Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger
      or
      consolidation or (D) the stockholders of the Company approve and effect a plan
      of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or
      disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s
      assets. 

For
      purposes of this Agreement, a  Continuing Director  shall mean, as of the date
      of determination, any Person who (i) was a member of the Board of Directors
      of
      the Company on the Effective Date of this Plan, (ii) was nominated for election
      or elected to the Board of Directors of the Company with the affirmative vote
      of
      a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of
      Directors at the time of such nomination or election, or (iii) was nominated
      for
      election or elected to the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to the
      Stockholders Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2003, among the Company and
      certain of its stockholders. 

7.       Transferability.
         Stock
      Options granted under the Plan to a participant shall not be transferable
      otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be
      exercisable, during the participant s lifetime, only by the participant. In the
      event of the death of a participant, each Stock Option theretofore granted
      to
      him or her shall be exercisable during such period after his or her death as
      the
      Committee shall in its discretion set forth in such Stock Option at the date
      of
      grant and then only by the executor or administrator of the estate of the
      deceased participant or the person or persons to whom the deceased participant s
      rights under the Stock Option shall pass by will or the laws of descent and
      distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at the discretion of the Committee,
      a Stock Option (other than an Incentive Stock Option) may be transferred by
      a
      participant solely to the participant s spouse, siblings, parents, children and
      grandchildren or trusts for the benefit of such persons or partnerships,
      corporations, limited liability companies or other entities owned solely by
      such
      persons, including trusts for such persons, subject to any restriction included
      in the award of the Stock Option. 

8.       Other
      Provisions.    The
      award
      of any Stock Option under the Plan may also be subject to such other provisions
      (whether or not applicable to the Stock Option awarded to any other participant)
      as the Committee determines, at the date of grant, appropriate, including,
      without limitation, for the installment purchase of Common Stock under Stock
      Options, for the forfeiture of, or restrictions on resale or other disposition
      of, Common Stock acquired under any Stock Option, for the acceleration of
      exercisability or vesting of Stock Options in the event of a change in control
      of the Company, for the payment of the value of Stock Options to participants
      in
      the event of a change in control of the Company, or to comply with federal
      and
      state securities laws, or understandings or conditions as to the participant s
      employment in addition to but not inconsistent with those specifically provided
      for under the Plan. 

9.       Fair
      Market Value.    For
      purposes of this Plan and any Stock Options awarded hereunder, Fair Market
      Value
      shall be the closing price of the Company s Common Stock on the date of
      calculation (or on the last preceding trading date if Common Stock was not
      traded on such date) if the Company s Common Stock is readily tradable on a
      national securities exchange or other market system, and if the Company s Common
      Stock is not readily tradable, Fair Market Value shall mean the amount
      determined in good faith by the Committee as the fair market value of the Common
      Stock of the Company;    provided,
      however,   
      in the
      event of a Change in Control, the Fair Market Value shall be based on the actual
      consideration paid for such Common Stock. 

10.       Withholding.   
      All
      payments or distributions made pursuant to the Plan shall be net of any amounts
      required to be withheld pursuant to applicable federal, state and local tax
      withholding requirements. If the Company proposes or is required to distribute
      Common Stock pursuant to the Plan, it may require the recipient to remit to
      it
      or to the corporation that employs such recipient an amount sufficient to
      satisfy such tax withholding requirements prior to the delivery of any
      certificates for such Common Stock. In lieu thereof, the Company or the
      employing corporation shall have the right to withhold the amount of such taxes
      from any other sums due or to become due from such corporation to the recipient
      as the Committee shall prescribe. The Committee may, in its discretion and
      subject to such rules as it may adopt (including any as may be required to
      satisfy applicable tax and/or non-tax regulatory requirements), permit an
      optionee to pay all or a portion of the federal, state and local withholding
      taxes arising in connection with any Stock Options by electing to have the
      Company withhold shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to
      the
      amount of tax to be withheld, such tax calculated at rates required by statute
      or regulation. 

11.       Tenure.   
      A       participant s
      right, if any, to continue to serve the Company as a director, officer,
      employee, or otherwise, shall not be enlarged or otherwise affected by his
      or
      her designation as a participant under the Plan. 

12.       Unfunded
      Plan.    Participants
      shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments
      which the Company may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan.
      Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions,
      shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary
      relationship between the Company and any participant, beneficiary, legal
      representative or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires
      a
      right to receive payments from the Company under the Plan, such right shall
      be
      no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.
      All
      payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the
      Company and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation
      of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly
      set forth in the Plan. The Plan is not intended to be subject to the Employee
      Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 

13.       No
      Fractional Shares.    No
      fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued or delivered pursuant to
      the
      Plan or any Stock Option. The Committee shall determine whether cash or other
      property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional shares or whether such
      fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise
      eliminated. 

14.       Duration,
      Amendment and Termination.    No       Stock
      Options shall be granted more than ten years after the Effective Date;
   provided,
      however,    that
      the
      terms and conditions applicable to any Stock Option granted prior to such date
      may thereafter be amended or modified by mutual agreement between the Company
      and the participant or such other persons as may then have an interest therein.
      The Committee may amend the Plan from time to time or suspend or terminate
      the
      Plan at any time. However, no action authorized by this    Section
      14   
      shall
      reduce the amount of any outstanding Stock Option or change the terms and
      conditions thereof without the participant s consent. No amendment of the Plan
      shall, without approval of the stockholders of the Company, (i) increase the
      total number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued under the Plan or
      the
      maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be granted to any individual
      under the Plan or (ii) modify the requirements as to eligibility for Stock
      Options under the Plan;    provided,
      however,    that
      no
      amendment may be made without approval of the stockholders of the Company if
      the
      amendment will disqualify any Incentive Stock Options granted
      hereunder. 

15.       Governing
      Law   .
      This
      Plan, Stock Options granted hereunder, and actions taken in connection herewith
      shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
      Delaware (regardless of the law that might otherwise govern under applicable
      Delaware principles of conflict of laws). 

16.       Effective
      Date.   

(a)      The
      Plan
      is adopted to give effect to the Company s plan of reorganization under chapter
      11 of title 11 of the United States Code (the  Bankruptcy Code )   pursuant
      the   confirmation
      order dated January 14, 2003, of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the
      Southern District of New York. The Plan shall be effective as of January 31,
      2003 (the  Effective Date ), provided that the Plan is approved by the
      stockholders of the Company within 12 months of the Effective Date. Such
      approval of stockholders shall be a condition to the right of each participant
      to receive any Stock Options hereunder. Any Stock Options granted under the
      Plan
      prior to such approval of stockholders shall be effective as of the date of
      grant (unless, with respect to any Stock Option, the Committee specifies
      otherwise at the time of grant), but no such Stock Option may be exercised
      or
      settled and no restrictions relating to any Stock Option may lapse prior to
      such
      stockholder approval, and if stockholders fail to approve the Plan as specified
      hereunder, any such Stock Options shall be cancelled. 

(b)      This
      Plan
      shall terminate on January 31, 2013 (unless sooner terminated by the
      Committee). 

*
      * * *
      * 

[THE
      REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] 

IN
      WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this 2003 Stock Option Plan to be signed
      by the undersigned duly authorized officer of the Corporation as of January
      31,
      2003. 

/s/
                David J. Webster 

David
                J. Webster 

Senior
                Vice President 

EXHIBIT
        A 

[Form
        of
        Stock Option Agreement] 

VIASYSTEMS
        GROUP, INC. 

        NONQUALFIED
        STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 

THIS
        AGREEMENT (this  Agreement ) is made and entered into between Viasystems Group,
        Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Group ), and the undersigned (the  Holder ) in
        connection with the grant of an Option (hereinafter defined) under the
        Viasystems Group, Inc. 2003 Stock Option Plan (the  Plan ). 

WITNESSETH   : 

WHEREAS,
        the Holder is an employee of Group or a subsidiary corporation thereof (such
        subsidiary corporation sometimes referred to herein as  Related Entities  Group
        and the Related Entities are collectively referred to herein as the
 Corporation ) in a key position or is an officer and/or director of the
        Corporation, and Group desires to grant the Holder an Option through the
        Plan to
        purchase shares of Stock (hereafter defined) of Group, and Holder desires
        to
        accept the Option upon the terms, conditions and covenants set forth herein
        and
        in the Plan. 

NOW,
        THEREFORE, in consideration of these premises, the parties agree that the
        following shall constitute the agreement between the Corporation and the
        Holder: 

Definitions   .
        For
        purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings
        specified below: 

Board
                of Directors  shall mean the board of directors of
                Group. 

Cause 
                shall be as defined by any employment agreement applicable to Holder
                or,
                if none, shall mean termination of employment of Holder because of
                (i)
                Holder s conviction of, or plea of nolo contendere (or other similar plea)
                to, a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude; (ii) Holder s personal
                dishonesty, incompetence, willful misconduct, willful violation of
                any
                law, rule, or regulation (other than minor traffic violations or
                similar
                offenses) or breach of fiduciary duty which involves personal profit;
                (iii) Holder s commission of material mismanagement in the conduct of
                Holder s duties as assigned to him; (iv) Holder s willful failure to
                execute or comply with the policies of the Corporation; (v) Holder s
                failure to properly perform Holder s stated established duties, or
                intentional failure to perform Holder s stated duties; or (vi) the illegal
                use of drugs on the part of Holder. 

Code 
                shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
                amended. 

Committee 
                shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under the
                Plan. 

Confidential
                Information  shall mean information about the Corporation, including its
                respective businesses, products and practices, disclosed to or known
                by
                the Holder as a direct or indirect consequence of or through the
                employment by the Corporation. However, Confidential Information
                shall not
                include under any circumstances any information with respect to the
                foregoing matters which is (i) available to the public from a source
                other
                than Holder, (ii) released in writing by the Corporation to the public
                or
                intentionally to persons who are not under a similar obligation of
                confidentiality to the Corporation and who are not parties to this
                Agreement or a similar agreement, (iii) obtained by Holder from a
                third
                party not under a similar obligation of confidentiality to the
                Corporation, or (iv) the subject of a written waiver executed by
                the
                Corporation for the benefit of Holder. 

Disability 
                shall be construed under the appropriate provisions of the long-term
                disability plan maintained for the benefit of employees of the Corporation
                who are regularly employed on a salaried basis. The determination
                of a
                Holder s Disability, and the date of its commencement, shall be determined
                in good faith solely by the Committee.  

Fair
                Market Value  shall mean the closing price of the Stock on the date of
                calculation (or on the last preceding trading date if the Stock was
                not
                traded on such date) if the Stock is readily tradable on a national
                securities exchange or other market system, and if the Stock is not
                readily tradable, Fair Market Value shall mean the amount determined
                in
                good faith by the Committee as the fair market value of the
                Stock. 

Securities
                Act  shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as
                amended. 

Stock 
                shall mean Group s authorized par value $0.01 per share Common Stock
                together with any other securities with respect to which Options
                (hereinafter defined) or other rights granted hereunder may become
                exercisable. 

Grant
        of Nonqualified Option   .
        Subject
        to the terms and conditions set forth herein, Group grants to the Holder
        an
        Option (the  Option ) to purchase from Group at a price per share (the  Exercise
        Price ) the number of shares of Stock (the  Option Shares ) as both are set out
        on the signature page hereof subject to adjustments as provided in    Paragraph
        9   
        hereof.
        The Option is not intended to be an incentive option within the meaning of
        Section 422(a) of the Code. 

Notice
        of Exercise   .
        This
        Option may be exercised, in accordance with    Paragraph
        8   ,
        to
        purchase all or a portion of the applicable number of Option Shares exercisable
        by written notice to Group as provided in    Paragraph
        12   ,
        which
        notice shall: 

specify
                the number of shares of Stock to be purchased at the Exercise
                Price; 

if
                the person exercising this Option is not the named Holder, contain
                or be
                accompanied by evidence satisfactory to the Committee of such person s
                right to exercise this Option; and 

be
                accompanied by (i) payment in full of the Exercise Price in the form
                of a
                certified or cashier s check payable to the order of Group, (ii) with the
                Committee s approval, a promissory note for the full Exercise Price, (iii)
                with the Committee s approval, payment in the form of shares of Stock
                owned by the Holder which are of at least equal value to the aggregate
                Exercise Price payable in connection with such exercise,    provided   ,
                such shares have been held for at least six (6) months, (iv) with
                the
                Committee s approval, a share or shares of Stock owned by the Holder and
                surrendered for actual or deemed multiple exchanges of shares of
                Stock,
                   provided   ,
                such shares have been held for at least six (6) months, or (v) with
                the
                Committee s approval, a combination of any of (i) - (iv). The Committee
                may grant or withhold its approval under any or all of the foregoing
                subsections (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) in its sole and absolute
                discretion. 

Investment
        Letter   .
        Unless
        there is in effect a registration statement under the Securities Act with
        respect to the issuance of the Option Shares (and, if required, there is
        available for delivery a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10(a)(3)
        of the Securities Act), the Holder (or, in the event of his death, the person
        exercising the Option) shall, as an absolute condition to his right to exercise
        the Option, deliver to Group an agreement or certificate containing such
        representations, warranties, and covenants as Group may deem necessary or
        appropriate to ensure that the issuance of shares of Stock pursuant to such
        exercise is not required to be registered under the Securities Act or any
        applicable state securities law. It is understood and agreed that under no
        circumstance shall Group be obligated to file any registration statement
        under
        the Securities Act or any applicable state securities law to permit exercise
        of
        the Option or to issue any Stock in violation of the Securities Act or any
        applicable state securities law. 

Transfer
        and Exercise of Nonqualified Option   .
        The
        Option is not transferable by the Holder otherwise than by operation of law
        or
        by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and is exercisable, during
        the
        Holder s lifetime, only by the Holder. The Option may not be assigned,
        transferred (except by operation of law or by will or the laws of descent
        and
        distribution), pledged, or hypothecated in any way and shall not be subject
        to
        execution, attachment, or similar proceeding. Any attempted assignment,
        transfer, pledge, hypothecation, or other disposition of the Option or any
        rights hereunder or thereto contrary to the provisions hereof, and the levy
        of
        any attachment or similar proceeding upon the Option, shall be null and void
        and
        without effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Option may be transferred
        by
        the Holder solely to the Holder s spouse, siblings, parents, children and
        grandchildren or trusts for the benefit of such persons or partnerships,
        corporations, limited liability companies or other entities owned solely
        by such
        persons, including trusts for such persons. 

Status
        of Holder   .
        The
        Holder shall not be deemed a stockholder of Group with respect to any of
        the
        shares of Stock subject to this Option, except to the extent that such shares
        shall have been purchased and issued. Group shall not be required to issue
        or
        transfer any certificates for shares of Stock purchased upon exercise of
        this
        Option until there is compliance with all applicable requirements of law
        and
        this Agreement. This Agreement is not a contract of employment and the terms
        of
        the Holder s employment shall not be affected hereby or by any agreement
        referred to herein except to the extent specifically so provided herein or
        therein. Nothing herein shall be construed to impose any obligation on the
        Corporation to continue the Holder s employment. 

No
        Effect on Capital Structure   .
        This
        Option shall not affect the right of Group to reclassify, recapitalize or
        otherwise change its capital or debt structure or to merge, consolidate,
        convey
        any or all of its assets, dissolve, liquidate, windup, or otherwise reorganize
        and, by acceptance of this Agreement, Holder agrees that Holder has no standing
        before any court to object to or contest any such action. 

Conditions
        and Schedule for Exercise   .
        Except
        as otherwise provided herein, all Options shall expire no later than ten
        (10)
        years from the date of this Agreement (the  Expiration Date ). Holder shall be
        entitled to exercise the Options granted herein in accordance with the vesting
        schedule set forth on the signature page hereof. Notwithstanding the provisions
        of the immediately preceding sentence, all Option Shares shall become
        exercisable immediately prior to a Change in Control (as defined in the
        Plan). 

All
        other
        provisions of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event
        of
        the termination of Holder s employment with the Corporation either voluntary or
        for Cause, all rights under this Agreement and the Option shall terminate
        and
        shall thereupon be null and void effective upon such termination;    provided   ,
           however   ,
        any
        shares of Stock obtained through exercise prior to such termination date
        in
        accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall remain the sole and absolute
        property of the Holder. 

In
        the
        event of the termination of Holder s employment with the Corporation other than
        as a result of Holder s voluntary termination or Holder s termination by the
        Corporation for Cause, all rights under this Agreement and the Option shall
        terminate and shall become null and void effective on the later of (i) the
        date
        upon which Holder is no longer entitled to receive any benefits from Group
        or
        any of its subsidiaries pursuant to any employment agreement applicable to
        Holder or, in the absence of any employment agreement applicable to Holder,
        (ii)
        thirty (30) days (or 180 days if because of death or Disability) after such
        termination (as applicable, the  Extended Exercisability Period     provided   ,
           however   ,
        that in
        no event shall the Extended Exercisability Period extend beyond the Expiration
        Date; and    provided   ,
           further   ,
        any
        shares of Stock obtained through exercise prior to such termination date
        in
        accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall remain the sole and absolute
        property of the Holder. During such Extended Exercisability Period, Holder
        (or
        Holder s legal representative in the event that Holder s employment with the
        Corporation is terminated because of death) shall have the right to exercise
        the
        Option with respect to all or any part of the shares of Stock which such
        Holder
        was entitled to purchase (which shall include for purpose of this Agreement
        a
        prorating of exercisability of option shares between vesting dates) immediately
        prior to the time of such termination. 

Adjustments
        Upon Changes in Capitalization, Merger, Etc. and Acceleration of
        Exercisability   .
        In the
        event that, by reason of any merger, consolidation, combination, liquidation,
        reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, split-up,
        split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other like
        change in capital structure of Group (each, a  Reorganization ), the Stock is
        substituted, combined, or changed into any cash, property, or other securities,
        or the shares of Stock are changed into a greater or lesser number of shares
        of
        Stock, the number and/or kind of shares and/or interests subject to an Option
        and the Exercise Price or value thereof shall be appropriately adjusted by
        the
        Committee to give appropriate effect to such Reorganization. Any fractional
        shares or interests resulting from such adjustment shall be
        eliminated. 

All
        of
        the provisions of this paragraph to the contrary notwithstanding, Group shall
        have the right to grant stock appreciation right agreements to others and/or
        issue additional stock options, if such options are to others out of authorized
        but unissued shares, even though the result of such stock appreciation right
        agreements and/or stock options dilute either the percentage of ownership
        of the
        Holder or the value per share of any Stock or Option herein granted and,
        in any
        such event, Holder s rights hereunder shall not be increased in any
        way. 

Committee
        Authority   .
        Any
        question concerning the interpretation of this Agreement, any adjustments
        required to be made under    Paragraph
        9   
        of this
        Agreement, and any controversy which may arise under this Agreement and/or
        any
        paragraph hereof shall be finally determined by the Committee in its sole
        and
        absolute discretion. 

Plan
        Controls   .
        The
        terms of this Agreement are governed by the terms of the Plan, which is made
        a
        part hereof as if fully set forth herein, and in the case of any inconsistency
        between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms
        of the
        Plan shall control. 

Notice   .
        Whenever any notice is required or permitted hereunder, such notice must
        be in
        writing and personally delivered, sent by mail or sent by overnight courier.
        Any
        notice required or permitted to be delivered hereunder shall be deemed to
        be
        delivered on the date which it is personally delivered, or, whether actually
        received or not, on the third business day after it is deposited in the United
        States mail, certified or registered, postage prepaid or next business day
        after
        it is sent by overnight courier, addressed to the person who is to receive
        it at
        the address which such person has theretofore specified by written notice
        delivered in accordance herewith. Group or Holder may change, at any time
        and
        from time to time, by written notice to the other, the address previously
        specified for receiving notices. Until changed in accordance herewith, Group
        and
        the Holder specify their respective addresses as set forth below on the
        signature lines on the last page hereof. 

Award
        Information Confidential   .
        As
        partial consideration for the granting of this Option, the Holder agrees
        that
        Holder will keep confidential all information and knowledge that Holder has
        relating to the manner and amount of participation in the Plan;    provided   ,
           however   ,
        that
        such information may be disclosed as required by law and may be given in
        confidence to the Holder s spouse, tax and financial advisors, or to a financial
        institution to the extent that such information is necessary to secure a
        loan. 

Tax
        Withholding   .
        By
        acceptance hereof, Holder hereby (i) agrees to reimburse the Corporation
        by
        which Holder is employed for any federal, state, or local taxes required
        by any
        government to be withheld or otherwise deducted by such Corporation in respect
        of Holder s exercise of all or a portion of the Option; (ii) authorizes the
        Corporation by which the Holder is employed to withhold from any cash
        compensation paid to the Holder or on the Holder s behalf, an amount sufficient
        to discharge any federal, state, and local taxes imposed on the Corporation
        by
        which the Holder is employed, in respect of the Holder s exercise of all or a
        portion of the Option; and (iii) agrees that Group may, in its discretion,
        hold
        the stock certificate to which Holder is entitled upon exercise of the Option
        as
        security for the payment of the aforementioned withholding tax liability,
        until
        cash sufficient to pay that liability has been accumulated, and may, in its
        discretion, effect such withholding by retaining shares issuable upon the
        exercise of the Option having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise
        which
        is equal (in the judgment of such Corporation) to the amount to be
        withheld. 

Confidential
        Information   .
        As
        partial consideration of the granting of this Option, the Holder agrees that
        during Holder s employment with the Corporation or at any time thereafter,
        irrespective of the time, manner or cause of the termination of this Agreement,
        Holder will not directly or indirectly reveal, divulge, disclose or communicate
        to any person or entity, other than authorized officers, directors and employees
        of the Corporation, in any manner whatsoever, any Confidential Information
        of
        the Corporation or any direct or indirect subsidiary or parent of the
        Corporation without the prior written consent of the Chairman of the Board
        of
        Group. 

Successors   .
        Except
        as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement is binding on and enforceable
        by
        the heirs, successors, and assigns of the parties. 

Governing
        Law   .
        This
        Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, except
        to the
        extent that Delaware law is preempted by Federal law. 

Restriction
        on Shares   .
        You
        acknowledge and agree that upon exercise of your Option, if required in the
        opinion of counsel to Group, the certificates for Common Stock, when issued,
        will have substantially the following legend: 

THE
        SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER
        THE
        SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, NOR PURSUANT TO THE SECURITIES OR  BLUE SKY 
LAWS OF ANY STATE. SUCH SECURITIES MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, TRANSFERRED,
        PLEDGED, HYPOTHECATED OR OTHERWISE ASSIGNED, EXCEPT PURSUANT TO (i) A
        REGISTRATION STATEMENT WITH RESPECT TO SUCH SECURITIES WHICH IS EFFECTIVE
        UNDER
        SUCH ACT, (ii) RULE 144 UNDER SUCH ACT, OR (iii) ANY OTHER EXEMPTION FROM
        REGISTRATION UNDER SUCH ACT. 

Enforceability;
        Binding Effect   .
        If any
        provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable by any
        court
        of competent jurisdiction, such ruling shall not invalidate or render
        unenforceable the other provisions of this Agreement, unless the result of
        such
        invalidation or unenforceability shall be to deprive a party of the essential
        benefit of its bargain under this Agreement, in which event either adversely
        affected party may immediately terminate this Agreement. If any provision
        of
        this Agreement is found to be unenforceable, the unenforceable provision
        shall
        be deemed modified to the extent required to permit its enforcement in a
        manner
        most closely representing the intent of the parties as expressed herein and
        all
        other provisions shall be and remain in full force and effect. Subject to
        the
        prohibition on assignments, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure
        to
        the benefit of the parties to this Agreement and their legal representatives,
        successors and assigns. 

*
        * * *
        * 

[THE
        REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] 
 
        IN
        WITNESS WHEREOF, Group has caused this Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement
        to be
        executed and the Holder has hereunto set Holder s hand as of
        _______________. 

GROUP    :  

VIASYSTEMS
                  GROUP, INC.  

                  101
                  South Hanley 

                  St.
                  Louis, Missouri 63105 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

HOLDER   : 

Address: 

OPTION
        TERMS    : 

Number
                  of Option Shares: 

Exercise
                  Price: 

$____
                  per share 

Date
                  of Grant: 

Vesting
                  Schedule: 

1/3
                  of the Option Shares shall be exercisable on or after the Date
                  of Grant;
                  an additional 1/3 of the Option Shares shall be exercisable on
                  or after
                  the 24-month anniversary of the Effective Date (as defined in the
                  Plan),
                  and the remaining 1/3 of the Option Shares shall be exercisable
                  on or
                  after the 36-month anniversary of the Effective Date. 

Expiration
                  Date: 

10
                  years from the Date of Grant 

</EX-10.13>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 via10k033106ex211.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit 21.1 List of Subsidiaries

EXHIBIT
      21.1  

Subsidiaries
      of Viasystems, Inc.  

NAME
                OF ENTITY  

JURISDICTION
                OF ORGANIZATION  

ECM
                Holding Company 

Delaware 

Electro
                Componentes de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Ensambladora
              Automatriz de la Frontera Sa de CV  
              Mexico  

European
                PCB Group (Cayman Islands) Ltd. 

Cayman
                Islands 

European
                PCB Group Holding Corp. 

Delaware 

European
                PCB Group Partners (Cayman) L.P. 

Cayman
                Islands 

European
                Semiconductors Assembly BV 

Netherlands 

Guangzhou
                Kalex Laminate Company Ltd. 

China 

Guangzhou
                Termbray Circuit Board Co. Ltd. 

China 

Guangzhou
                Termbray Electronics Technology Co. Ltd. 

China 

Gaungzhou
              Termbray Electronics Technology Co. Ltd.  
              China   

Guangzhou
              Wire Harness Company Ltd.  
              Hong
              Kong  

Kalex
                Circuit Board (China) Limited 

Hong
                Kong 

Kalex
                Circuit Board (Guangzhou) Limited 

Hong
                Kong 

Kalex
                Multi-Layer Circuit Board (Zhong Shan) Ltd. 

China 

Kalex
                Printed Circuit Board Limited 

Hong
                Kong 

Masthoff
                BV 

Netherlands 

Momm
                BV 

Netherlands 

Mommers
                Print Service France S.A.R.L. 

France 

Mommers
                Vastgoed BV 

Netherlands 

Print
                Belgie Beheer BV 

Netherlands 

Print
                Belgie Holding BV 

Netherlands 

Print
                Service Holding NV 

Netherlands 

Qingdao
                Viasystems Telecommunications Technologies Co. Ltd 

China 

Shanghai
                Reltec Communications Technology Co. Ltd. 

China 

Shanghai
              Viasystems Electronic Systems Company Limited  
              China  

Shanghai
                Viasystems EMS Co. Ltd. 

China 

Termbray
                Circuit Board Company Limited 

Hong
                Kong 

Termbray
                Laminate Company Limited 

Hong
                Kong 

Viasupply
                Company Limited 

Hong
                Kong 

Viasystems
              II ULC  
              Nova
              Scotia  

Viasystems
                Asia Pacific Company Limited 

Hong
                Kong 

Viasystems
                Asia Pacific Property B.V.I. Limited 

Hong
                Kong 

Viasystems
                BV 

Netherlands

Viasystems
                BVI Ltd. 

British
                Virgin Islands 

Viasystems
                Canada Holdings, Inc. 

Canada 

Viasystems
                Electronics (Guangzhou) Company Limited 

China 

Viasystems
                EMS - U.K. Ltd 

England/Wales 

NAME
                OF ENTITY  

JURISDICTION
                OF ORGANIZATION  

Viasystems
                International, Inc. 

Delaware  

Viasystems
                Kalex Printed Circuit Board Limited 

Hong
                Kong 

Viasystems
                Luxembourg II S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Viasystems
                Luxembourg S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Viasystems
                Manchester Limited 

England/Wales 

Viasystems
                Milwaukee, Inc. 

Wisconsin 

Viasystems
                Mommers BV 

Netherlands 

Viasystems
              (Nantong) Electronic Technologies Co., Ltd.  
              China  

Viasystems
                Partners Ltd. 

Canada 

Viasystems
                Research   Development Center (Guangzhou) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Viasystems Services BV 
             Netherlands 

Viasystems (Singapore) Pte
              Limited 
             Singapore 

Viasystems (South China) Company
              Limited 
             Hong Kong  

Viasystems
                Technologies Corp. LLC 

Delaware 

Viasystems
                Technologies International Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Viasystems
                ULC 

Nova
                Scotia 

Viasystems Wire Harness Asia
              Holding
              Co. Ltd. 
             Hong Kong  

Wire
                Harness Industries, Inc 

Delaware 

Wirekraft
                Employment Co. 

Delaware 

Wirekraft
                Industries de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Wirekraft
                Industries, LLC 

Delaware 

Wire
                Harness Holding Company, Inc. 

Delaware 

Viasystems
                Wire Harness Asia Holding Co. Ltd. 

Hong
                Kong 

Guangzhou
                Wire Harness Company Ltd. 

Hong
                Kong 

Wire
                Harness Contractors, Inc. 

Delaware 

Wirekraft
                LLC 

Delaware 

Wire
                Harness Automotive, Inc. 

Delaware 

Technograph
                Microcircuits Limited 

England/Wales 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 via10k033106ex311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1 CERTIFICATION - DAVID SINDELAR

Exhibit 31.1 Certification - David Sindelar

Exhibit
      31.1  

PRINCIPAL
      EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION   

       PURSUANT
      TO   

       SECTION
      302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I,
      David
      M. Sindelar, certify that: 

1.     I
      have
      reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Viasystems, Inc.; 

2.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
      periods presented in this report; 

4.     The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
      and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
      Act
      Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a)     Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)     Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and 

c)     Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.     The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s independent certified public accountants and the audit committee of
      registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

a)     All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and 

b)     Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting. 

Date:  
                3/31/06  

/s/
              David M. Sindelar 

David
                M. Sindelar 

                Chief
                Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 via10k033106ex312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2 CERTIFICATION - GERALD SAX

Exhibit 31.2 Certification - Gerald Sax

Exhibit
      31.2  

PRINCIPAL
      FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION   

       PURSUANT
      TO   

       SECTION
      302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

I,
      Gerald
      G. Sax, certify that: 

1.     I
      have
      reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Viasystems, Inc.; 

2.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
      periods presented in this report; 

4.     The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
      and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
      Act
      Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

a)     Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)     Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and 

c)     Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.     The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s independent certified public accountants and the audit committee of
      registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
      functions): 

a)     All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and 

b)     Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting. 

Date: 
                 3/31/06  

/s/
              Gerald G. Sax 

Gerald
                G. Sax 

                Chief
                Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 7
 via10k033106ex32.htm
 EXHIBIT 32 CERTIFICATION CEO AND CFO

Exhibit 32 Certification CEO and CFO

Exhibit
      32  

CERTIFICATION
      OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND   

       CHIEF
      FINANCIAL OFFICER   

       PURSUANT
      TO   

       SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 (18 U.S.C. 1350)   

Pursuant
      to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of
      Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code), each of the
      undersigned officers of Viasystems, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby certify that, to the best of their
      knowledge: 

The
      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 (the
 Form 10-K ) of the Company fully complies with the requirements of Section
      13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and information contained
      in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
      condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: 
                 3/31/06  

/s/
              David M. Sindelar 

David
                M. Sindelar 

                Chief
                Executive Officer 

Date: 
                 3/31/06  

/s/
              Gerald G. Sax 

Gerald
                G. Sax 

                Chief
                Financial Officer 

</EX-32>

