<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_749660_0001144204-06-013278_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>17283722</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>252037</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>15163158</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1475896</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>67</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001144204-06-013278.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331174745
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001144204-06-013278
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		105
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ICAD INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000749660
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC [3577]
		IRS NUMBER:				020377419
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-09341
		FILM NUMBER:		06730484

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4 TOWNSEND WEST, SUITE 17
		CITY:			NASHUA
		STATE:			NH
		ZIP:			03063
		BUSINESS PHONE:		603-882-5200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4 TOWNSEND WEST, SUITE 17
		CITY:			NASHUA
		STATE:			NH
		ZIP:			03063

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	HOWTEK INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 IaYl+zPzw+l5xsuEsYCPTZfZN4+TPKyr03IwlR1R515E47eBwuAGtx+hD98RXTF1
 v3AQSmITm9p8HWeLdCWObA==

 0001144204-06-013278.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 v039103_10-k.htm

UNITED
      STATES 

      SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

       WASHINGTON,
      D.C. 20549  

FORM
      10-K 

      (Mark
      One) 

x
 ANNUAL
      REPORT PURSUANT
      TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For
      the fiscal year ended    December
      31, 2005  

OR 

o
 TRANSITION
      REPORT
      PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
      1934 

For
      the
      transition period from ________________ to ________________  

Commission
      file number    1-9341  

ICAD,
      INC.  

(Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware 

02-0377419 

(State
                or other jurisdiction 

(I.R.S.
                Employer Identification No.) 

of
                incorporation or organization) 

4
                Townsend West, Suite 17, Nashua, New Hampshire 

03063 

(
                Address of principal executive offices) 

(Zip
                Code) 

Registrant's
      telephone number, including area code:    (603)
      882-5200  

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

None 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: 

Title
      of Class  

      Common
      Stock, $.01 par value 

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes  o  No  x   .    

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes  o  No  x  .  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be
      filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
      the
      preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
      to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirement
      for
      the past 90 days. YES  x   NO
 o .

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
      this
      Form 10-K.  o  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
      filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large
      Accelerated filer  o         Accelerated
      filer  x         Non-accelerated
      filer  o  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b-2 of the Act.) Yes  o  No  x .   

The
      aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
      registrant, based upon the closing price for the registrant's Common Stock
      on
      June 30, 2005     was
      $128,235,525. 

As
      of
      March 23, 2006, the registrant had 36,863,386 shares of Common Stock
      outstanding. 

Documents
      Incorporated by Reference: None  

2 

Safe
      Harbor  Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
      1995: 

Certain
      information included in this report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts
      contain forward looking statements that involve a number of known and unknown
      risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the actual results,
      performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from
      any
      future results, performance or achievement expressed or implied by such forward
      looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited
      to, uncertainty of future sales levels, protection of patents and other
      proprietary rights, the impact of supply and manufacturing constraints or
      difficulties, product market acceptance, possible technological obsolescence
      of
      products, increased competition, litigation and/or government regulation,
      changes in Medicare reimbursement policies, competitive factors, the effects
      of
      a decline in the economy in markets served by the Company and other risks
      detailed in this report and in the Company s other filings with the United
      States Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The words  believe ,
 demonstrate ,  intend ,  expect ,  estimate ,  anticipate ,  likely ,  seek 
and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Readers are
      cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements,
      which
      speak only as of the date the statement was made. 

PART
      I  

Item
      1     .
             Business.  

General  

iCAD ,
      Inc. was incorporated in 1984 in the State of Delaware, as Howtek, Inc., and
      has
      sold and supported over 20,000 high quality, professional graphic arts,
      photographic and medical imaging systems worldwide. In 2001, iCAD elected to
      concentrate on its medical imaging and women s health businesses with an
      objective of expanding this business through increased product offerings. This
      goal was advanced in June 2002 with the acquisition of Intelligent Systems
      Software, Inc. ( ISSI ), a software company offering computer aided detection
      systems for breast cancer. Subsequently, on December 31, 2003, the Company
      acquired   Qualia
      Computing, Inc. ( Qualia ), a privately held company based in Beavercreek Ohio,
      and its subsidiaries, including CADx Systems, Inc. (together  CADx ), bringing
      together two of the three companies approved by the US Food and Drug
      Administration ( FDA ) to market computer aided detection of breast cancer
      solutions in the United States.  

Our
      website is    www.icadmed   .com.
      We
      make available, free of charge, at this website our annual report on Form 10-K,
      quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments
      to
      those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably
      practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it
      to,
      the SEC. The information on the website listed above, is not and should not
      be
      considered part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated
      by
      reference in this document. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
      "iCAD," "Company," "we," "our" and "us" means iCAD, Inc. and its consolidated
      subsidiaries.  

3 

The
      Company develops and markets computer aided detection (CAD) and decision support
      solutions for medical diagnostics, primarily for early detection of breast
      cancer through screening and diagnostic mammography. The Company has positioned
      its Second Look  mammography products to meet the CAD needs of x-ray film-based
      (or analog) mammography practices and of practices which have made or are making
      the transition from film-based to digital breast image capture. The Company
      also
      provides complementary viewing products offering digital viewing benefits to
      otherwise film-based mammography practices, and comparative reading products
      supporting the transition of practices from film to digital workflows. Since
      receiving FDA approval for its first breast cancer detection product in 2002,
      over 1,200 film-based and digital mammography practices have chosen iCAD early
      detection and comparative reading products, domestically and
      internationally. 

Over
      the
      course of 2005, the Company reinforced its fundamental business and strategic
      plans, with certain product introductions and improvements, more effective
      product marketing, a doubling of its domestic sales force, channel relationships
      with additional industry original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ) and
      implementation of sales management tools. In general, market acceptance of
      CAD
      for early detection of breast cancer continued to grow during 2005, as evidenced
      by renewal or addition of reimbursement coverage for CAD procedures by major
      third party medical insurers.  

The
      Company s headquarters is located in southern New Hampshire, and its principal
      software development center is in Beavercreek, Ohio. 

Strategy  

In
      general, iCAD seeks, in areas that it believes presents the greatest market
      opportunity, to maximize sales by emphasizing the benefit to prospective and
      current customers of the Company s products. In particular, in addition to its
      core competency in developing image analysis and pattern recognition software
      which  learns  to detect and identify cancers and other clinical features, the
      Company seeks, where relevant, to exploit (a) its vertical integration of
      hardware technologies to convert film-based images to digital form with
      sophisticated, software-based pattern recognition technologies which can
      recognize and highlight possible cancers from converted or original digital
      images, and (b) its comparative experience and skill in image and data
      communication and enterprise medical information systems. The Company believes
      that one of its key achievements in 2005 has been to make iCAD s competitive
      advantages in film digitization technology known to a growing number of
      mammography practices making the transition from film to digital
      mammography. 

Over
      the
      last two years, the Company has focused on anticipating market trends and
      competitor choices and decisions. In particular, the Company has positioned
      itself to take advantage of the trend in film-based mammography market towards
      smaller, more price sensitive buyers which make up an estimated two-thirds
      of
      potential purchasers. The Company and its products are also oriented towards
      buyers who are increasingly concerned about the connectivity of CAD solutions
      and more general medical enterprise image and information viewing, archiving,
      communication and management systems. Looking ahead, the Company now anticipates
      increasing demand by film-based practices for benefits of digital viewing and
      tele-mammography and for support of CAD for Computed Radiography (CR) and is
      aligning its priorities accordingly. Similarly, the Company has anticipated
      the
      need for digital mammography users to convert and manage previous film-based
      images for the purposes of comparative reading, and the increasing demand among
      digital mammography users for breast image and CAD portability among a variety
      of viewing, communication and storage alternatives.  

4 

Based
      on
      continuing market opportunity and competitive analyses, the Company has
      accelerated its development of competitively distinguishable products to support
      screening for colon cancer in a market that is anticipated to grow with
      increasing recommendations for routine screening procedures for early detection
      of colon cancer. Pending market developments indicating greater market
      potential, the Company has substantially reduced emphasis on a previously
      announced program to support detection of lung nodules in CT images.

During
      the same period, the Company increased its strategic emphasis on development
      and
      growth of residual and continuing revenue sources, including fee per period
      and
      fee per procedure models for delivery of CAD solutions, and increased attention
      to service and extended maintenance revenue sources. The benefits of these
      efforts are anticipated in future periods. 

Market,
      Potential Markets and Market Share  

Computer
      Assisted Detection   
      is used
      to provide physicians with support in detecting breast cancer at an early stage.
      There is a need for devices that facilitate the early detection of breast cancer
      and other forms of cancer. For most cancers, the earlier treatment is rendered
      the greater the likelihood of successfully managing the cancer. An American
      Cancer Society study showed that if breast cancer is detected while still
      localized and before metastasis spread, the five-year survival rate is 96.8%
      or
      better. If the cancer spreads regionally before treatment, the survival rate
      drops to around 75.9%. If there is distant metastasis, the survival rate drops
      to around 20.6%. 

Breast
      Cancer Detection.    A
      primary
      method of detecting breast cancer is through mammography screening. Mammography
      is a radiographic examination of a breast. The American Cancer Society
      recommends that women undergo annual mammogram examinations beginning at age
      40.
      Approximately 5 million additional women in the United States will be entering
      the annual mammography screening category within the next 5 years. A problem
      in
      this process, that the Company s CAD products seek to address, is that in
      routine screening of mammography films an estimated 20% or more (some reports
      suggest up to 30%) of identifiable breast cancers are missed as a result of
      radiologist oversight. CAD as an adjunct to mammography screening is now
      reimbursable in the United States under federal and most third party insurance
      programs, providing economic support for the acquisition of CAD products by
      women s health care providers. In general, market acceptance of CAD for early
      detection of breast cancer has continued to grow during 2005. Reflecting this
      trend, Signa Insurance has termed CAD  a standard of care for large radiology
      practices , and Aetna, in April 2005, termed CAD  a necessary adjunct to
      screening mammography.  

5 

In
      the
      United States, approximately 9,100 facilities are accredited to provide
      mammography screening. Historically, these centers have used X-ray film-based
      medical imaging technologies to capture and analyze breast images. Full Field
      Digital Mammography ( FFDM ) systems, which eliminate the film used in
      conventional mammographic X-Rays, are now available from several vendors. These
      systems are increasing as a percentage of the installed base of mammography
      systems, as more clinics and women s health centers implement more fully digital
      imaging workflows. CAD technology, including the Company s, is applicable to
      mammographic images acquired through both X-ray film-based and FFDM systems.
      In
      2005 approximately 32% of the Company s total sales were made for use with
      digital mammographic systems through its OEM partners and the Company believes
      that it is the current sales leader in this part of the market. 

Comparative
      Reading   .
      Today,
      there are approximately 1,000 existing digital mammography centers worldwide,
      and 750 additional clinics are projected by Frost   Sullivan to transition
      from film to digital or partially digital workflows during 2006. In converting
      from film to digital work flows, converted digital mammography users confront
      the problem of how to view prior cases captured on film. The Company s
   TotalLook    
      comparative reading solution digitizes and delivers film-based breast
      examination images from previous years to the same digital viewing station
      used
      to examine current digital mammograms. This assists in the important examination
      step of comparing breast images year to year to detect potentially subtle
      changes which may be indicative of breast cancer, by providing radiologists
      with
      a  total look  at a mammography patient s multi-year breast examinations.
   TotalLook   
      converts
      prior film images into a digital format and automatically adjusts the digitized
      images for correct display on the same digital viewing display and workstation
      and in the same context as the current year digital mammogram. Immediate
      availability of previous images, reduced light box glare and elimination of
      the
      need to shift back and forth from light box to viewing workstation results
      in
      improved workflow, improved productivity and reduced radiologist
      discomfort. 

Computed
      Tomography Applications and Colonic Polyp Detection:     
      C   omputed
      Tomography ( CT ) is a well-established and widely used imaging technology that
      has evolved rapidly over the last few years. CT equipment is used to image
      cross
      sectional slices of various parts of the human body that combine to provide
      detailed volumetric representations of the imaged areas. The use of
      multi-detectors in CT equipment starting with 4 and moving to 8, 16, 64 and
      beyond in just a few years has resulted in vastly improved image quality,
      increased number of slices per procedure and greatly increased imaging speeds.
      Additionally, the use of CT imaging has expanded in terms of the number of
      procedures performed as well as the applications for which it is utilized.
      It is
      estimated that over 70 million CT procedures will be performed in 2006 in the
      United States alone with an installed base of approximately 9,600 machines.
      While the increased number of cross sectional slices provides important and
      valuable diagnostic details, it adds to the challenge of managing and
      interpreting the large volume of information generated. This presents
      opportunities for automated image analysis and computer aided detection in
      CT
      imaging, that the Company believes it is well positioned to develop and
      promote. 

6 

Colorectal
      cancer is the third most common type of cancer in men and women in the United
      State. It is also the third leading cause of cancer deaths in spite of being
      highly preventable with early identification and removal of colorectal polyps.
      Several techniques including optical colonoscopy, which involves visualizing
      the
      inside of the colon with a specialized scope, exist for the early identification
      of polyps. However, these techniques remain highly underutilized.  

CT
      Colonography ( CTC ), also known as Virtual Colonoscopy, is a relatively new and
      less intrusive technique for imaging the colon that has gained significant
      acceptance in recent years. CTC is performed with standard CT imaging of the
      abdomen while the colon is distended after subjecting the patient to a colon
      cleansing regimen. Specialized software is then used to reconstruct and
      visualize the internal surface of the colon, and review the CT slices to
      identify potential polyps. 

CTC
      is
      increasingly becoming more available and it is beginning to gain insurance
      reimbursement for screening applications in certain parts of the United States.
      The process of reading a CTC exam is lengthy and tedious as the interpreting
      physician is often required to traverses the entire length of the colon multiple
      times. CAD technology can play an important role in improving the accuracy
      and
      efficiency of reading CTC cases by automatically identifying potential polyps.
      The Company is in the process of developing solutions for the detection of
      polyps in CTC exams. The Company plans initially to deliver its solution to
      end
      users through integration with leading vendors who provide image display and
      visualization software specifically designed for CTC images. Such vendors
      include Vital Images and Tera Recon.  

Digitizer
      Applications.    The
      Company s Howtek  medical digitizer products are used in the Company s CAD and
      comparative reading systems, and were previously marketed to third parties
      for
      use in the computer aided detection market, in teleradiology and in medical
      image storage and management networks known as Picture Archiving and
      Communications Systems ( PACS ). During 2005, in connection with a focus of its
      digitizer products exclusively on mammography applications, the Company ended
      marketing of digitizer products to third parties for PACS applications.

iCAD
      Computer Aided Detection Technology and Products  

Computer
      Aided Detection of Breast Cancer Products.    The
      Company s CAD systems operate by analyzing multiple features and characteristics
      of a screening or diagnostic mammogram to recognize, identify and  mark  those
      combinations of features that may represent cancer. The system then presents
      the
      radiologist with a computerized  Second Look , or second opinion, helping to
      reduce overlooked cancers by an estimated 23%-28%. This analysis is accomplished
      by iCAD s cancer detection software, which encapsulates the knowledge from
      thousands of mammography cases that were presented during the product s
      development to  learn  the important distinguishing characteristics of cancerous
      versus normal tissue. 

iCAD
      and
      CADx have been responsible for a range of innovations in CAD products,
      including:  

the
                  first system offering a clear upgrade path from film-based to digital
                  mammography workflows 

the
                  first and only CAD system to search for and mark clinical asymmetries

7 

the
                first system to offer printed CAD results

the
                first free-standing, eye-level radiologist review
                station 

the
                ability to choose between soft copy and printed CAD results

the
                first system to offer multiple radiologist viewing stations

the
                first system to support up to twelve films in a patient study

the
                first system to report above each image the number of marks made
                by the
                CAD system  

the
                first and only system that provides integration of relational database
                technologies to ensure patient history tracking and enhance integration
                with other information systems.  

Other
      innovations incorporated into the Company s CAD products include the first use
      of bar code labels to improve workflow and reduce errors in case tracking;
      the
      first system to use the facility s own barcodes to identify and link to CAD
      results; the first system to integrate with a Mammography Information System,
      the first CAD system to offer an HL-7 data format interface to the medical
      facility s information system; the first CAD system supporting open
      architecture, standardized protocols and accessible data interfaces; the ability
      to share digitizers between CAD and medical PACS systems; and the first and
      only
      dual digitizer CAD system. iCAD also delivered the first digitizer designed
      for
      mammography and women s health applications; the first and only support for
      distributed patient databases, allowing remote scanning and remote access to
      patient information and test results; the first and only support for remote
      patient entry; the first bi-directional support for hospital and mammography
      information systems; the first leveraged operating lease for CAD systems; and
      the first fully-featured CAD system available at a price under
      $70,000. 

Primary
        Computer
      Aided Detection of Breast Cancer product descriptions as of the first quarter
      of
      2006 are as follows: 

Cases/ 

Suggested 

iCAD
                Model   1  

Day 

Selected
                Benefits 

Retail
                Price 

Second
                Look  200  

Up
                to 

Our
                stand-alone economical solution for lower volume,
                value  

$69,950 

20 

oriented
                customers seeking printed CAD results.  

Fully
                Automatic workflow and processing 

Compact,
                easy to use and easy to maintain. 

1   
        Specific
        designations subject to change 

8 

Cases/ 

Suggested 

iCAD
                  Model   1  

Day 

Selected
                  Benefits 

Retail
                  Price 

Second
                  Look 300  

Up
                  to 

Our
                  modular, extensible, network-ready solution for
                  value-  

$79,950 

80 

oriented
                  customers.  

Network
                  options include immediate HL-7 hospital 

information
                  system interface; bi-directional PenRad, MRS 

and
                  MagView mammography information system interfaces; 

fully
                  compliant DICOM file-save capability 

Open
                  platform Hub and spoke CAD architecture 

Multiple
                  case-entry options 

Unsorted,
                  continuous film-feed reduces errors 

Support
                  for bar-coded workflows for productivity 

Optional
                  Radiologist review stations available 

Optional
                  PowerLook  image viewing package 

Second
                  Look 700     2   

Up
                  to 

Our
                  solution for higher case volume customers seeking the
                  best  

$79,950 

80 

detection
                  performance available, with immediate support for  

digital
                  mammography.  

Immediate,
                    clear and cost effective upgrade path to support 

digital
                  mammography 

Operator-friendly
                  graphical user interface 

Simplified
                  film loading 

Use
                  of existing bar code labels provides patient record 

continuity 

Support
                  for up to 12 films per patient ID ensures all films are 

on
                  one record number 

Stat 
                  case sequencing provides immediate availability for 

selected
                  cases 

Optional
                  Radiologist review stations 

Optional
                  PowerLook  image viewing package 

Current
                    accessories include PenRad, MRS and MagView 

mammography
                  information system interfaces; 

Fully
                    compliant DICOM file-save capability 

Optional
                    CADStream  MRI analysis using the same 

workstation   3  

2    Manufacture
        of the    Second
        Look 700 has been discontinued, and the Company is currently depleting inventory
        of this model.  

         3    In
        this configuration the product is referred to as the    Second
        Look 700M.  

9 

Cases/ 

Suggested 

iCAD
                  Model   1  

Day 

Selected
                  Benefits 

Retail
                  Price 

Second
                  Look Digital  

Varies 

Our
                  solution for Digital Mammography.  

$Price 

by 

Integrated
                  computer aided detection for General Electric 

established 

Digital 

Healthcare
                  Senographe Digital Mammography System; 

by
                  OEM 

System 

available
                  from GE Healthcare. 

Integrated
                  computer aided detection for Hologic, Inc. Digital 

Mammography
                  System; available from Hologic, Inc. 

Integrated
                  computer aided detection for Siemens Medical 

Solutions,
                  Inc. Digital Mammography System; available 

from
                  Siemens, Inc. 

Integrated
                  computer aided detection for IMS-Giotto full-field 

Digital
                  Mammography System; available outside the United 

States
                  from IMS-Giotto 

Support
                  for additional digital mammography systems 

planned. 

Products
      for Comparative Reading of Digital Mammograms and Prior Film-based
      Images   .
      The
      Company s    TotalLook
         solution
      includes an iCAD digitizer-based workstation and software that makes it easier
      to compare prior film images with digitally acquired current images. With a
      suggested list price of $49,995,    TotalLook   
      systems
      are available now. Working in conjunction with iCAD s    SecondLook 
         CAD
      systems,    TotalLook   
      presents
      a comprehensive film-to-digital solution that makes it easier for women s health
      centers to transition from film to digital mammography. By digitizing and
      delivering film-based breast examination images from previous years to the
      same
      digital viewing station used to examine current digital mammograms, iCAD s new
      imaging solution assists in the important examination step of comparing breast
      images year to year to detect potentially subtle changes which may be indicative
      of breast cancer. This provides radiologists with a  total look  at a
      mammography patient s multi-year breast examinations, 

TotalLook   
      converts
      prior film images into a digital format and automatically adjusts the digitized
      images for correct display on the same digital viewing display and workstation
      and in the same context as the current year digital mammogram. Immediate
      availability of previous images, reduced light box glare and elimination of
      the
      need to shift back and forth from light box to viewing workstation result in
      improved workflow, improved productivity and reduced radiologist
      discomfort. 

Streamlined
      for high-productivity, iCAD s    TotalLook   
      solution
      has the capability to: 

Automatically
                retrieve and receive patient information from HL-7 or DICOM work
                lists 

Digitize
                standard mammography films in 23
                seconds 

Capture
                the full fidelity of original film mammograms in each digitized
                image 

Track
                and label records in industry-standard DICOM format

Send
                complete records to multiple DICOM destinations
                simultaneously 

Display
                high-resolution digitized images on many DICOM workstations in any
                hanging
                protocol  

10 

Product
      Development   Engineering  

During
      2005, iCAD s principal product releases included: 

SecondLook
                300, the industry s first compact, integrated, counter-top networkable CAD
                solution, made fully functional CAD affordable to smaller, price-sensitive
                mammography clinics for the first time. Continuing enhancements to
                the
                Second Look 300 through 2005 included improved optics, enhanced film
                handling and multiple workflow options, including case-separators
                for high
                through-put customers and ultra-simple  load and go  workflow for smaller
                mammography centers. 

An
                improved SecondLook Digital CAD solution for GE Healthcare digital
                mammography users, with increased sensitivity, reduced marker rates
                and
                improved marking logic; 

New
                SecondLook Digital CAD solutions for each of Hologic, Siemens Medical
                Solutions and (for sales outside the United States) IMS
                Giotto; 

PowerLook 
                Viewer option, offering digital mammography workstation viewer benefits
                to
                film-based mammography practices.  

An
                improved PureLook  digitizer technology, improving image quality and
                consistency and enabling the Company s new comparative reading
                products; 

Total
                Look  integrated hardware and software solution for digitization of prior
                film-based mammography studies and integration for comparative reading
                on
                digital mammography workstations; 

Current
      mammography products in testing and works in progress relate to continuing
      enhancement and improvement of existing products and to extension of digital
      CAD
      and comparative reading products to the emerging Computed Radiography (CR)
      market.  

Products
      for Computer Aided Detection of Colonic Polyps.    In
      anticipation of what it believes will be a significant emerging market
      opportunity relating to growing interest in screening for colon cancer, and
      expanding on its core pattern recognition competencies, the Company is currently
      engaged in the development of products for support of colonic polyp detection
      through radiographic examination. Initial products are designed to assist in
      identification and description of colonic polyps in conventional colonography,
      while future products in this area seek to reduce the uncomfortable and
      unpleasant patient preparation now required for radiographic colon examination
      and studies - sometimes termed  electronic cleansing  or  electronic prep . The
      Company is scheduling discussion with the FDA to review its plans and strategy
      for seeking approval for its initial colonic polyp detection products, and
      a
      schedule for FDA submissions will be determined a that time. The Company
      anticipates that clinical and field testing of its system for detection of
      colonic polyps will begin in 2006.  

iCAD s
      CT
      solution for colorectal polyp detection will be offered with third party display
      workstation and PACS vendors. Initially the Company plans to introduce CT Colon
      products with Vital Images and Tera Recon. End user prices will be established
      by the Company s OEM partners in these areas. 

11 

Based
      on
      continuing market opportunity and competitive analyses, the Company has
      substantially reduced emphasis on a previously announced program to produce
      products designed to detect lung nodules in CT images. In general, the Company
      does not believe that the market for such products is maturing quickly enough
      to
      justify the additional resources required to commercialize and support such
      products. As a result, the Company may not continue the FDA process it began
      with respect to a lung nodule marking tool. Moreover, the Company believes
      its
      resources are better employed in development and commercialization of colonic
      polyp detection solutions at this time. 

In
      the
      future, the Company plans to further grow its business by expanding its core
      technical, scientific and intellectual property to additional pattern
      recognition, analysis and decision support applications in
      medicine. 

Marketing
        Sales  

Marketing  

The
      Company competes aggressively in   all
      areas
      of the CAD products for breast cancer detection market. In the higher case
      volume, film-based part of the market, its    Second
      Look       700   
      and
   Second
      Look   
      3   00
         CAD
      solutions are marketed on the basis of clinical superiority, productivity and
      value. In the lower case volume, film-based division of the CAD market, where
      price and ease of use are key buying factors, the Company believes it is well
      positioned with its    Second
      Look   
      3   00
         and   
      Second Look 200   
      products.  

The
         Second
      Look 200   
      and
   Second
      Look   
      3   00
         are
      also
      made available to mammography facilities that cannot afford the outright
      purchase of a CAD system, through a simple  fee-per-procedure  program that the
      Company has branded    ClickCAD    .
      Under
      the    ClickCAD   
      program,
      the Company installs    Second
      Look    systems
      in qualified mammography clinics at little or no up-front capital cost. The
      clinics then pay iCAD a fee approximating $8.00 for each CAD procedure
      performed, an amount that represents less than half of the current standard
      $19.13 Federal reimbursement rate for CAD procedures. The Company believes
      that
      its    ClickCAD   
      program
      allows budget-constrained mammography clinics to improve the health care
      delivered to women at risk, strengthen their marketing position in attracting
      and keeping patients concerned about breast cancer, reduce the legal risks
      associated with failure to detect early-stage cancers, and increase their net
      revenues. 

The
      Company believes that it has gained a strong position in the digital mammography
      division of the CAD market through OEM sales relationships with General Electric
      Medical Systems, Hologic, Inc., Siemens Medical Systems and with IMS Giotto.
      The
      Company s objective in this market sector is to provide superior clinical
      performance and exceptional support and service to its OEM customers and their
      end users, while continuing to expand product offerings and OEM sales
      channels. 

The
      Company s    TotalLook   
      products
      are marketed in conjunction with digital CAD solutions, to provide assistance
      to
      users who are making or have made the transition from film-based to digital
      mammography work flows.  

12 

iCAD
      made
      significant changes in its marketing organization and personnel at the beginning
      of the fourth quarter of 2005. Marketing activities and improvements implemented
      by the Company in 2005, many of them resulting from those changes,
      included: 

Development
                and launch of new  Bridge to Digital  and  ClickCAD  marketing programs
                supported by direct mail and media
                advertising; 

Increased
                lead generation for both capital sales and ClickCAD, through multiple
                direct mail and outbound telemarketing
                programs; 

Improved
                and increasingly competitive product marketing tools and
                collaterals; 

Increased
                and more directed trade show
                participation; 

Increased
                support of clinical and research studies highlighting the advantages
                of
                iCAD products and solutions. 

Clinical
      studies in support of iCAD s products, released during 2005, include findings
      that the Company s products demonstrate superior cancer detection in digital
      mammography; that iCAD cancer detection performance is equivalent in dense
      breasts; that iCAD demonstrates superior detection of subtle lesions and of
      chest wall lesions, and that tele -mammography is effective and permissible
      for
      digital mammography and CAD.  

Sales  

iCAD
         Second
      Look       200,
      Second Look 300, Second Look 700    and   
      TotalLook    products
      are now distributed domestically on a non-exclusive basis, by Fusion Sales
      Partners and by independent, geographically based resellers. The Company also
      sells these products directly.  

The
      Company markets its products for digital mammography through its OEM partners,
      including GE Healthcare, Hologic, Siemens Medical Solutions and IMS-Giotto.
      In
      early 2006, Siemens Medical Solutions agreed to distribute the Company s
      TotalLook solution for comparative reading of film based prior images on digital
      mammography workstations. The Company no longer distributes products for
      film-based CAD through its digital OEM channels. 

In
      2005,
      the Company s activities and achievements in the areas of     sales
      and sales management     included: 

A
                doubling of iCAD s domestic sales force, from 8 to 16 sales
                professionals; 

Implementation
                in the fourth quarter of    Salesforce.com   
                as
                an effective, web-based solution for lead, opportunity and sales
                management; 

Adding
                Hologic, Inc. and Siemens Medical Solutions as active and contributing
                OEM
                sales channels for Second Look Digital CAD
                products; 

Expanding
                the iCAD products marketed and sold by Siemens Medical Solutions
                to
                include the TotalLook solution for comparative
                reading; 

Adding
                IMS Giotto as a new international OEM sales channel, with initial
                sales
                occurring in the fourth quarter of
                2005; 

13 

Increased
                national buying group and group purchasing organization (GPO) affiliations
                and sales; 

Award
                of a contract to purchase at least 100 film-based CAD systems from
                the
                Chinese Anti-Cancer Association; 

Increased
                support and training of reseller sales
                personnel. 

Customer
      and Professional Services,   Manufacturing   

In
          Customer
      and Professional Services    ,
      supporting iCAD s objective of increased control over the sales opportunity and
      subsequent customer satisfaction, the Company expanded its staff of field
      service engineers, assuming control of pre-sales product
      demonstrations. 

In
          Manufacturing
      Operations     ,   
      the
      Company managed a complete transition in both products and contract
      manufacturing facilities, while successfully meeting all current production
      demands. 

Competition  

The
      medical equipment market is highly competitive and changes rapidly. Competitors
      in this market are highly sensitive to the introduction of new products and
      competitors. Other well known medical imaging equipment manufacturers have
      explored the possibility of introducing their own versions of CAD and
      comparative reading products into the market.  

The
      Company  
      currently faces regular and direct competition in its Computer Assisted
      Detection of Breast Cancer business from R2 Technology, Inc. and from Kodak,
      Inc. The Company anticipates additional competition in this area,
      internationally and domestically, from CompuMed, Inc. and from Seimens Medical
      Solutions.  

The
      Company also anticipates facing additional competition in the CT Lung and CT
      Colon solutions market from CT equipment manufacturers including Siemens Medical
      Solutions, GE Healthcare, and Philips Medical Systems, who offer or are in
      the
      process of developing nodule and polyp detection solutions as advanced features
      of their image management and display software typically sold with their CT
      equipment. iCAD also faces competition from emerging CAD companies that have
      introduced solutions for colorectal polyp detection including Medicsight Inc.
      which received FDA approval to market Computer Assisted Reading products in
      these two areas, and Median Technologies which is in the process of pursuing
      FDA
      approval. Other emerging competitors include Quantitative Imaging and iMED
      who
      announced development of polyp detection software. The Company faces indirect
      competition from Riverain Medical which produces and markets CAD products for
      chest x-rays. These products combined with recent advances in chest x-ray
      imaging can compete with CT imaging for lung cancer detection and with the
      Company s CT Lung CAD products.  

14 

Government
      Regulation  

The
      Company is subject to extensive regulation with potentially significant costs
      for compliance. The   iCAD
        system
      for computer assisted detection of breast cancer is a medical device subject
      to
      extensive regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
      Act.
      The FDA s regulations govern, among other things, product development, product
      testing, product labeling, product storage, pre-market clearance or approval,
      advertising and promotion, and sales and distribution. Unanticipated changes
      in
      existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new requirements could adversely
      affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of
      operations. 

The
      FDA s
      Quality System Regulation requires that the Company's manufacturing operations
      follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality
      assurance procedures during the manufacturing process. The Company is subject
      to
      FDA regulations covering labeling regulations, adverse event reporting, and
      the
      FDA s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or off-label
      uses.  

The
      Company's manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic unannounced
      inspections by the FDA and corresponding state agencies and international
      regulatory authorities for compliance with extensive regulatory requirements.
      Although the Company believes its manufacturing facilities are currently in
      compliance with applicable requirements, there can be no assurance that the
      FDA,
      following an inspection of these manufacturing facilities, would determine
      that
      they are in full compliance. The Company's failure to fully comply with
      applicable regulations could result in the issuance of warning letters,
      non-approvals, suspensions of existing approvals, civil penalties and criminal
      fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and
      criminal prosecution. 

In
      order
      to market and sell its CAD products     in
      certain countries outside of the United States the Company must obtain and
      maintain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those
      countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals, and
      the
      time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining
      and
      maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is an expensive and time consuming
      process. The Company cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain the
      necessary regulatory approvals timely or at all in any foreign country in which
      it plans to market its CAD products, and if the Company fails to receive such
      approvals, its ability to generate revenue may be significantly
      diminished. 

Sources
      and Availability of Materials  

The
      Company depends upon a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for its
      products, and certain components in its products may be available from a sole
      or
      limited number of suppliers. The Company's products are generally either
      manufactured and assembled for it by a sole manufacturer, by a limited number
      of
      manufacturers or assembled by the Company from supplies it obtains from a
      limited number of suppliers. Critical components required to manufacture these
      products, whether by outside manufacturers or directly, may be available from
      a
      sole or limited number of component suppliers. The Company generally does not
      have long-term arrangements with any of its manufacturers or suppliers. The
      loss
      of a sole or key manufacturer or supplier would impair the Company's ability
      to
      deliver products to customers in a timely manner and would adversely affect
      the
      Company's sales and operating results. The Company's business would be harmed
      if
      any of its manufacturers or suppliers could not meet the Company's quality
      and
      performance specifications and quantity and timing requirements.

15 

Patents
      and Licenses  

The
      Company has 19 patents covering its CAD and scanner technologies in the United
      States, which expire from December 2019 through November 2025. These patents
      help the Company maintain a proprietary position in these markets, but because
      of the pace of innovation in these fields it is difficult to determine the
      overall importance of these patents to the Company. These patents include a
      broad set of claims covering the combination of a computer analysis of
      mammography data with a human analysis of that same data in breast cancer
      detection. Additional claims have been granted for extensions of the same
      concept from mammography to other medical imaging applications. 

The
      Company has 23 current patent applications pending domestically and
      internationally, and plans to file additional domestic and foreign applications
      when it believes such protection will benefit the Company. These patent
      applications relate to current and future uses of iCAD s computer aided
      detection and digitizer technologies and products. The Company may not be able
      to obtain additional patents either in the United States or in foreign countries
      and existing or future patents or copyrights may not provide substantial
      protection or commercial benefit to the Company. 

There
      is
      rapid technological development in the Company's markets with concurrent
      extensive patent filings and a rapid rate of issuance of new patents. Although
      the Company believes that its technologies have been independently developed
      and
      do not infringe the patents or intellectual property rights of others, certain
      components of the Company's products could infringe patents, either existing
      or
      which may be issued in the future, in which event the Company may be required
      to
      modify its designs or obtain a license. However, the Company may not be able
      to
      do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms and conditions; and the
      failure to do either of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect
      upon
      the Company's business. 

In
      February 2003 iCAD secured a Patent License to United States, Canadian, and
      Japanese patents owned by Scanis, Inc., which relate broadly to computer aided
      detection of breast cancer. Rights to a European patent application covering
      similar inventions are also included. In conjunction with the Patent License
      to
      iCAD, Scanis entered into a multi-year, exclusive digitizer supply agreement
      with a subsidiary of iCAD. In consideration for the Patent License from Scanis,
      the Company granted discounts to Scanis with respect to future purchases of
      the
      Company s digitizer products. 

In
      addition to protecting its technology and products by seeking patent protection
      when deemed appropriate, the Company also relies on trade secrets, proprietary
      know how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain its
      competitive position. The Company requires all of its employees to execute
      confidentiality agreements. Insofar as the Company relies on confidentiality
      agreements, it is possible that others will independently develop similar
      technology or that the Company's confidentiality agreements will be
      breached. 

16 

All
      key
      officers and employees have agreed to assign to the Company certain technical
      and other information and patent rights, if any, acquired by them during their
      employment with the Company and after any termination of their employment with
      the Company (if such information or rights arose out of information obtained
      by
      them during their employment).  

Major
      Customers  

During
      the year ended December 31, 2005 the Company had sales of $3,725,065
      and  
      $2,913,493, or 19% and 15% of sales, to SourceOne Healthcare and General
      Electric Medical Systems, Inc., respectively.   These
      were the Company s two major customers in 2005 with accounts receivable balances
      of $  139,816
      and $430,360  ,
      respectively, due from these customers at December 31, 2005. For the year ended
      December 31, 2004 the Company had sales of $6,871,412 and $4,983,683, or 29%
      and
      21% of sales, to SourceOne Healthcare and General Electric Medical Systems,
      Inc., respectively. These were the Company s two major customers in 2004 with
      accounts receivable balances of $1,849,791 and $12,090, respectively, due from
      these customers at December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2003
      the
      Company had sales of $2,921,535 or 45% of sales, to Instrumentarium Imaging,
      Inc.  

Manufacturing,
      Customer Support and Service  

The
      Company s New Hampshire facility is certified as a medical manufacturing
      facility by the FDA and complements two experienced contract manufacturing
      resources that the Company uses to manufacture and assemble its products. The
      Company has manufactured complex professional or medical products, directly
      and
      through contract, since 1986.  

The
      Company provides an increasing range of customer support resources through
      its
      24-hour on-line web site and a centralized customer help desk, which deals
      with
      customer questions and issues, manages return-to-factory service requests,
      and
      dispatches and monitors field service operations from 8AM to 8PM EST on business
      days.  

Engineering
      and Product Development   

The
      Company spent $4,785,092, $4,832,842, and $2,384,057 on research and development
      activities during the years ended December, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
      The research and development expenses for 2005 are primarily attributed to
      the
      development of the Company s    Second
      Look 300   ,
         TotalLook   ,
         PowerLook   ,
      the
      Company s Fulcrum medical film digitizer, software development to support its
      CAD products and development of the Company s CAD software for CT Lung and CT
      Colon.  

17 

Employees  

On
      March
      1, 2006 the Company had 86 full and part-time employees. None of the Company s
      employees are represented by labor organizations and the Company is not aware
      of
      any activities seeking such organization. The Company considers its relations
      with employees to be good.  

Backlog  

The
      dollar amount of the Company's backlog, and orders believed to be firm, as
      of
      December 31, 2005 was approximately $788,000 as compared to approximately
      $22,000 on the corresponding date in 2004. The increase in backlog at the end
      of
      2005 compared to the end of 2004 primarily reflects the improvement of the
      Company s sales and marketing efforts.  

Environmental
      Protection  

Compliance
      with federal, state and local provisions which have been enacted or adopted
      regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise
      relating to the protection of the environment, has not had a material effect
      upon the capital expenditures, earnings (losses) and competitive position of
      the
      Company. 

Financial
      Geographic Information  

The
      Company's sales are made to U.S. distributors and dealers, and to foreign
      distributors of computer and related products. Total export sales were
      approximately $1,747,000 or 9% of total sales in 2005, $1,331,000 or 6% of
      total
      sales in 2004 and $289,000 or 4% of total sales in 2003.  

The
      Company s principal concentration of export sales was in Europe, which accounted
      for 55% of the Company s export sales in 2005, 78% in 2004 and 23% in 2003. Asia
      accounted for 28% of export sales in 2005 having had no sales in 2004 and 2003.
      Export sales to Australia decreased to 6% of the Company s export sales in 2005,
      compared to 11% in 2004 and 35% in 2003. The balance of the export sales in
      2005
      were into Bermuda, Jordan, Guam and Canada. 

Item
      1A.         Risk
      Factors   

We
      operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown
      risks
      and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The
      following highlights some of the factors that have affected, and/or in the
      future could affect, our operations. 

18 

We
      have incurred significant losses since inception and there can be no assurance
      that we will be able to achieve and sustain future
      profitability.  

We
      have
      incurred significant losses since our inception, much of which were attributable
      to our former business lines. We incurred a net loss of approximately $4.7
      million during the year ended December 31, 2005. We may not be able to achieve
      profitability.  

Our
      medical digitizer business has been adversely affected by our acquisition and
      commercialization of a CAD product line.  

Prior
      to
      acquisition of a CAD product line, we promoted our medical digitizer line to
      a
      variety of current and prospective customers offering or seeking to offer their
      own CAD products. With the acquisition of a CAD product line, we have entered
      into a competitive or potentially competitive position with respect to such
      prospective customers, which has, in some cases, led prospective customers
      to
      seek alternative suppliers of medical digitizers. Moreover, since June 2002
      our
      development, engineering, and sales and marketing efforts have concentrated
      on
      CAD products and we have limited development and support of our medical
      digitizer product channels during this time.      Sales
      of
      our medical digitizer products have declined from 2003 to 2005, and such sales
      are expected to continue to decline in 2006. 

We
      may need additional financing to implement our strategy and expand our
      business.  

We
      may
      need additional debt or equity financing beyond any amounts generally available
      to us to pursue our strategy and increase sales in the medical markets or to
      finance our business. Any additional financing that we need may not be available
      at all and, if available, may not be available on terms that are acceptable
      to
      us. The failure to obtain any additional financing on a timely basis, or on
      economically favorable terms, could prevent us from continuing our strategy
      or
      from responding to changing business or economic conditions, and could cause
      us
      to experience difficulty in withstanding adverse operating results or competing
      effectively. 

Because
      a portion of our sales are outside the United States, we are subject to
      additional risks, including devaluations of foreign currencies, instability
      in
      key geographic markets, tariffs and other trade barriers which are not within
      our control.  

Our
      international sales subject us to the risk of loss in the event of devaluation
      of foreign currencies in which sales are made between the time of contract
      and
      payment. We do not enter into currency hedging transactions. In addition, our
      international sales would be adversely affected by political, social or economic
      instability or the imposition of tariffs and other trade barriers in the
      geographic markets in which we sell our products.  

Because
      we face intense competition for our products, price discounting often occurs
      and
      may adversely affect our operating results.   

We
      compete with a variety of companies for sales of our medical imaging products.
      As a result, discounting among manufacturers and distributors of our products
      is
      intense. Increased price discounting could adversely affect our gross margins
      and operating results. We may not be able to effectively compete in the future
      and we may be required to discount our products to increase
      sales. 

19 

Our
      products may become obsolete.  

Our
      ability to compete effectively will depend, in large part, on our ability to
      offer state of the art products. Our competitors might develop and sell new
      products that are technically superior to our current product line that could
      result in our inability to sell existing products or our inability to sell
      our
      products without offering a significant discount. Our products may become
      obsolete in the future and we may not be able to upgrade our product line or
      develop and introduce new products if required.  

There
      may be insufficient demand for the new products that we are currently
      developing.  

Our
      ability to grow depends in part on introduction of new products applying pattern
      recognition technologies to recognition and detection of lung cancer, colon
      cancer and other medical image interpretation applications. No current market
      exists for such products, and even if we market such products in the future
      the
      demand for any such products may develop slowly, if at all. No private insurance
      or governmental reimbursements are currently authorized for procedures utilizing
      our planned colon cancer detection products, and if we market such products
      such
      reimbursements may not become available. The absence of insurance or
      reimbursements may significantly reduce demand for our planned products.

We
      depend upon a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for our products,
      and certain components in our products may be available from a sole or limited
      number of suppliers.  

Our
      products are generally either manufactured and assembled for us by a sole
      manufacturer, by a limited number of manufacturers or assembled by us from
      supplies we obtain from a limited number of suppliers. Critical components
      required to manufacture these products, whether by outside manufacturers or
      directly, may be available from a sole or limited number of component suppliers.
      We generally do not have long-term arrangements with any of our manufacturers
      or
      suppliers. The loss of a sole or key manufacturer or supplier would impair
      our
      ability to deliver products to customers in a timely manner and would adversely
      affect our sales and operating results. Our business would be harmed if any
      of
      our manufacturers or suppliers could not meet our quality and performance
      specifications and quantity and timing requirements.  

Provisions
      of our corporate charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent
      a
      change of control.  

Our
      certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up
      to
      1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one
      or
      more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by
      our
      board of directors, without further action by stockholders, and may include,
      among other things, voting rights (including the right to vote as a series
      on
      particular matters), preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion
      and
      redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. There are two series of
      preferred stock currently outstanding which have dividend and liquidation
      preferences over our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to
      future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to
      merge
      with, or sell our assets to a third party. In addition, our certificate of
      incorporation provides for the classification of our board of directors into
      three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible. One class of directors
      is
      elected at each annual meeting to serve a term of three years. At least two
      annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, will be required to effect
      a
      change in a majority of our board of directors. The ability of our board of
      directors to issue preferred stock and the classification of our board of
      directors into three separate classes, could discourage, delay, or prevent
      a
      takeover of us, thereby preserving control by the current
      stockholders. 

20 

As
      a
      Delaware corporation, we are subject to the General Corporation Law of the
      State
      of Delaware, including Section 203, an anti-takeover law enacted in 1988. In
      general, Section 203 restricts the ability of a public Delaware corporation
      from
      engaging in a  business combination  with an  interested stockholder  for a
      period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person
      became an interested stockholder. Subject to exceptions, an interested
      stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns,
      or
      within three years did own, 15% or more of a corporation s voting stock. As a
      result of the application of Section 203, potential acquirers may be discouraged
      from attempting to acquire us, thereby possibly depriving its stockholders
      of
      acquisition opportunities to sell or otherwise dispose of its stock at
      above-market prices typical of acquisitions.  

The
      price of our common stock has been and could continue to be
      volatile.  

Our
      common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market and has experienced, and
      is
      likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations
      which could adversely affect the market price of the our common stock without
      regard to the operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our
      common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to actual
      or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, announcements
      by
      us or our competitors, factors affecting the medical imaging industry generally,
      changes in national or regional economic conditions, changes in securities
      analysts' estimates for our competitors' or industry's future performance or
      general market conditions. The market price of our common stock could also
      be
      affected by general market price declines or market volatility in the future
      or
      future declines or volatility in the prices of stocks for companies in our
      industry. 

We
      are subject to extensive regulation with potentially significant costs for
      compliance.  

The
        iCAD
        system
      for computer aided detection of breast cancer is a medical device subject to
      extensive regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
      Act.
      The FDA s regulations govern, among other things, product development, product
      testing, product labeling, product storage, pre-market clearance or approval,
      advertising and promotion, and sales and distribution. Unanticipated changes
      in
      existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new requirements could increase
      our operating and compliance burdens and adversely affect our business,
      financial condition and results of operations. 

21 

The
      FDA s
      Quality System Regulation requires that our manufacturing operations follow
      elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance
      procedures during the manufacturing process. We are subject to FDA regulations
      covering labeling regulations, adverse event reporting, and the FDA s general
      prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or off-label uses.

Our
      manufacturers  facilities and our manufacturing facility are subject to periodic
      unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state agencies and
      international regulatory authorities for compliance with extensive regulatory
      requirements. We believe that our manufacturing facilities are currently in
      compliance with applicable requirements however, it cannot be certain that
      the
      FDA, following an inspection of these manufacturing facilities, would determine
      that they are in full compliance. Our failure to fully comply with applicable
      regulations could result in the issuance of warning letters, non-approvals,
      suspensions of existing approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product
      seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal
      prosecution. 

In
      order
      to market and sell our CAD products     in
      certain countries outside of the United States we must obtain and maintain
      regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. These
      regulations, including the requirements for approvals, and the time required
      for
      regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining
      foreign regulatory approvals is an expensive and time consuming process. We
      cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain the necessary regulatory
      approvals timely or at all in any foreign country in which we plan to market
      our
      CAD products, and if we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to generate
      revenue may be significantly diminished. 

We
      may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for any of the other products
      that
      we may consider developing.  

We
      have
      received FDA approvals only for our currently offered CAD     products.
      Before we are able to commercialize any other product, we must obtain regulatory
      approvals for each indicated use for that product. The process for satisfying
      these regulatory requirements is lengthy and will require us to comply with
      complex standards for research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality
      control, labeling, and promotion of products. 

Our
      products may be recalled even after we have received FDA or other governmental
      approval or clearance.  

If
      the
      safety or efficacy of our products is called into question, the FDA and similar
      governmental authorities in other countries may require us to recall our
      products. This is true even if our product received approval or clearance by
      the
      FDA or a similar governmental body. Such a recall could be the result of
      component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects
      in
      labeling. Such a recall would divert the focus of our management and our
      financial resources and could materially and adversely affect our reputation
      with customers.  

22 

Changes
      in reimbursement procedures by Medicare or other third-parties may adversely
      affect our business.  

In
      the
      United States, Medicare and a number of commercial third-party payers provide
      reimbursements for the use of CAD in connection with mammography screening
      and
      diagnostics. In the future, however, these reimbursements may be unavailable
      or
      inadequate due to changes in applicable legislation or regulations, changes
      in
      attitudes toward the use of mammograms for broad screening to detect breast
      cancer or due to changes in the reimbursement policies of third-party payers.
      As
      a result, healthcare providers may be unwilling to purchase our CAD     products
      or any of our future products, which could significantly harm our business,
      financial condition and operating results.  

Reimbursements
      and health insurance systems in markets outside of the United States vary from
      country to country. If we are unable to qualify our products for reimbursement
      outside of the United States, we may not be able to gain international market
      acceptance for our products, even if we promote such products at reduced margins
      in an effort to achieve sales. 

There
      is
      no guaranty that any of the products which we contemplates developing will
      become eligible for reimbursements or health insurance coverage in the United
      States or abroad at favorable rates or even at all or maintain
      eligibility. 

The
      sales cycle for our products is lengthy and unpredictable and our quarterly
      results are unpredictable.  

Many
      of
      the customers of our medical imaging products are institutional organizations,
      such as hospitals, with significant purchasing power and cyclical ordering
      practices. Although our film based CAD     systems
      are currently less expensive than the devices of our competitors, the purchase
      of an iCAD CAD system requires a material capital expenditure that will likely
      require approval of our customers  senior management and result in a lengthy
      sales and purchase order cycle. Consequently, we may be unable to accurately
      estimate our manufacturing and support requirements. Our larger institutional
      customers may also demand discounted prices on our products. As a result, our
      actual sales may differ significantly from our estimated sales and we may
      incorrectly allocate our resources. If we are unable to accurately project
      sales
      and allocate corresponding resources, we may incur substantial fluctuations
      in
      our operating results for any given quarter.  

Even
      if
      we are able to achieve profitability in future fiscal periods, it may occur
      in a
      quarter with concentrated revenue. In that case, we would expect reduced revenue
      in the following quarter or quarters, and possibly a quarterly loss or quarterly
      losses. As a result, stockholders may not be able to rely upon our operating
      results in any particular period as an indication of future
      performance. 

Historically,
      a very high percentage of our quarterly sales are made during the final month
      of
      each quarter, and often during the final weeks or days of the quarter. If any
      weather, natural disaster or other event interfered with, impeded or delayed
      completion of sales and shipments at the end of a quarter, we would be
      materially and adversely affected. For these reasons, among others, we are
      unable to determine quarterly performance, or to anticipate shortfalls or
      overachievement of quarterly plans and projections with any assurance in advance
      of completion of each quarter. 

23 

The
      medical equipment industry is litigious, and we have been and may be sued again
      for allegedly violating the intellectual property rights of
      others.  

The
      medical technology industry is characterized by a substantial amount of
      litigation and related administrative proceedings regarding patents and
      intellectual property rights. In addition, major medical software and device
      companies have used litigation against emerging growth companies as a means
      of
      gaining a competitive advantage. 

Should
      third parties file patent applications or be issued patents claiming technology
      also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate
      in
      interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine
      the relative priorities of our inventions and the third parties  inventions. We
      could also be required to participate in interference proceedings involving
      any
      patents which may be issued to us and pending applications of another entity.
      An
      adverse outcome in an interference proceeding could require us to cease using
      the technology or to license rights from prevailing third parties. 

We
      are
      aware of third parties whose business involves the use of CAD systems. Certain
      of these parties have issued patents or pending patent applications on
      technology that they may assert against us. Third parties may claim we are
      using
      their patented inventions and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our
      normal operations and activities. We are currently the defendant in one such
      proceeding. These lawsuits are expensive to defend and conduct and would also
      consume and divert the time and attention of our management. A court may decide
      that we are infringing a third party s patents and may order it to cease the
      infringing activity. The court could also order us to pay damages for the
      infringement. These damages could be substantial, could occur at a time when
      we
      do not have the financial resources to make the payments and could harm our
      business, financial condition and operating results. 

If
      we are
      unable to obtain any necessary license following a determination of infringement
      or an adverse determination in litigation or in interference or other
      administrative proceedings, we would have to redesign our products to avoid
      infringing a third party s patent and could temporarily or permanently have to
      discontinue manufacturing and selling some of our products. If this were to
      occur, it would negatively impact future revenue and   would
      have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
      of operations. 

We
      may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and, consequently,
      our
      competitors may benefit from our efforts and compete directly against
      us.  

Presently,
      patent applications have been filed for aspects of the proprietary technology
      employed by us in our CAD and medical digitizer products. Our patent
      applications, or any patents which may be issued to us, may be challenged,
      invalidated or circumvented by third parties. Any patent ultimately issued
      to us
      may not be in a form that will be beneficial to us. To the extent we are unable
      to adequately protect any of the intellectual property used in connection with
      our  
      current
  or
      any
      future products, competitors may take advantage of the situation and produce
      competing products, which could harm our competitive position and ultimately
      harm our operating results.  

We
      also
      rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and
      nondisclosure, confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions
      to
      protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only
      limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to
      gain or keep any competitive advantage. We may not be able to prevent the
      unauthorized disclosure or misappropriation of our technical knowledge or other
      trade secrets by employees. If that were to occur, our proprietary technologies
      and software applications would lose value and our business, results or
      operations and financial condition could be materially adversely
      affected. 

24 

Adverse
      events could undermine our efforts to protect our intellectual property. Our
      competitors may be able to develop competing technologies or products that
      do
      not infringe any of our intellectual property rights. Even if a competitor
      infringes our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to bring, or
      prevail in, a suit to protect our rights.  

Furthermore,
      the laws of some foreign countries may not adequately protect our intellectual
      property rights. As a result of all of these factors, our efforts to protect
      our
      intellectual property may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently
      develop similar competing technologies or products, duplicate our products,
      or
      design around our intellectual property rights. This would harm our competitive
      position, decrease ours market share, or otherwise harm our
      business. 

We
      may be unable to secure licenses for any technology which may be necessary
      to
      improve current or future products.  

It
      is
      likely that the technology underlying our existing and planned products may
      be
      fundamentally improved and that the resulting technology may be owned by third
      parties. As a result, we may be required to obtain licenses to this new
      technology to improve our current or future products. The cost of licensing
      such
      technology may significantly increase the unit cost of our products.

We
      may be
      unable to obtain favorable terms for licenses for this new technology or,
      alternatively, the owners of the technology may refuse to license it to us
      in
      order to maintain their own competitive advantage. In either case, our products
      may not be competitive with the products manufactured by others. Even if we
      were
      able to obtain rights to a third party s patented intellectual property, these
      rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same
      intellectual property. 

Some
      studies have questioned the efficacy of using mammography as a method to reduce
      mortality. If mammography proves to be less effective, our business would be
      seriously harmed. In addition, competing technologies could replace mammography
      as the preferred method for screening for breast cancer.  

The
      efficacy of screening mammography to reduce mortality has been questioned in
      several publications. Even if unproven, this could lead to a reduction in the
      use of mammography as a tool to detect breast cancer in the United States and
      abroad. If mammography is ultimately proven to be ineffective, or if
      recommendations for regular mammograms were eliminated or reduced, the demand
      of
      our product would decline and our business would be harmed.  

25 

We
      are
      also aware of companies that are developing alternatives to traditional breast
      cancer detection, including refractive light, thermal technologies, breast
      ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging and non-imaging tests. 

We
      may be exposed to significant product liability for which we may not be able
      to
      procure sufficient insurance coverage.  

Our
      business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent
      in
      the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical imaging devices.
      If
      available at all, product liability insurance for the medical device industry
      generally is expensive. Currently, we have liability insurance coverage which
      we
      deem appropriate for our current operations.       This
      level of coverage may not be adequate for us to avoid or limit our liability
      exposure and adequate insurance coverage may not be available in sufficient
      amounts or at a reasonable cost in the future. In any event, extensive product
      liability claims could be costly to defend and/or costly to resolve and could
      harm our reputation and business. 

Our
      future prospects depend on our ability to retain current key employees and
      attract additional qualified personnel.  

Our
      success depends in large part on the abilities and continued service of our
      executive officers and other key employees. We may not be able to retain the
      services of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of
      executive officers or other key personnel could have a material adverse
      effect on us.  

In
      addition, in order to support our continued growth, we will be required to
      effectively recruit, develop and retain additional qualified personnel. If
      we
      are unable to attract and retain additional necessary personnel, it could delay
      or hinder our plans for growth.  
      Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that
      we
      will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently
      qualified personnel. The failure to retain and attract necessary personnel
      could
      have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
      of operations.  

Some
      of our competitors have significantly greater resources and may prevent us
      from
      achieving or maintaining significant market share. As the market for CAD grows,
      competition for mammography products will likely increase.  

The
      medical equipment market is highly competitive and changes rapidly. Competitors
      in this market are highly sensitive to the introduction of new products and
      competitors. We currently face direct competition from R2 Technology, Inc.,
      which received FDA approval to market its CAD systems for use in mammography
      screening and diagnostics and lung cancer detection. Kodak, Inc. has recently
      received FDA approval for it to market a mammography CAD solution. Other vendors
      and competitors may market this competing Kodak product now that it has received
      FDA approval. Medicsight Inc, has received FDA approval to market certain
      computer assisted reading products which could compete with our current and
      future computer aided detection products. We also expect that other potential
      manufacturers will receive FDA approval to market competing CAD products in
      the
      future.  

26 

Other
      well known medical imaging equipment manufacturers have explored the possibility
      of introducing their own versions of CAD products into the market. Because
      many
      of these companies have significantly greater resources than we have, they
      may
      be able to respond more quickly to the evolving and emerging technologies in
      the
      market and they may be better suited to respond to the changing needs of their
      customers. The financial strength of many of these companies may enable them
      to
      develop their own proprietary CAD products or to bring competing products to
      market more quickly. Additionally, some of these companies benefit from name
      recognition, established relationships with healthcare professionals,
      diversified product lines, established distribution channels, and greater
      product development, manufacturing, and sales and marketing resources.

We
      also
      expect that as the market for CAD grows, other competitors may seek to introduce
      CAD products priced even lower than ours. Customers seeking a low-cost CAD
      solution may prefer a competitor s lower-priced product to ours and may result
      in price cutting by us which will reduce our profit margin. 

Future
      sales of shares of our common stock could affect the market price of our common
      stock and our ability to raise additional capital.   

We
      have
      previously issued a substantial number of shares of common stock, which are
      eligible for resale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, and may become freely
      tradable. In addition, shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of
      our
      outstanding convertible preferred stock and a substantial portion of the shares
      of common stock issuable upon conversion of our convertible debt are also
      eligible for sale under Rule 144. We have also registered for resale a
      substantial number of shares of common stock held by certain stockholders,
      including shares that are not currently eligible to be sold under Rule 144.
      We
      have also registered shares that are issuable upon the exercise of options
      and
      warrants. If holders of options or warrants choose to exercise their purchase
      rights and sell shares of common stock in the public market, or if holders
      of
      currently restricted common stock or common stock issuable upon conversion
      of
      our preferred stock or convertible debt choose to sell such shares of common
      stock in the public market under Rule 144 or otherwise, or attempt to publicly
      sell such shares all at once or in a short time period, the prevailing market
      price for our common stock may decline. Future public sales of shares of our
      common stock may adversely affect the market price for our common stock or
      our
      future ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. 

Item
      1B.         Unresolved
      Staff Comments   

Not
      Applicable. 

Item
      2    .         Properties   

The
      Company s principal executive office is located at 4 Townsend West, Suite 17,
      Nashua, New Hampshire. The facility consists of approximately 9,000 square
      feet
      of manufacturing, research and development and office space and is leased by
      the
      Company pursuant to a lease which expires December 31, 2006 at an annual rent
      of
      approximately $61,000. Additionally, the Company is required to pay utilities
      and provide insurance. 

27 

The
      Company leases a facility for its software research and development group
      located at 2689 Commons Blvd, Suite 100, Beavercreek, Ohio. The facility
      consists of approximately 26,000     square
      feet of research and development and office space and is leased by the Company
      pursuant to a lease, which expires in December 2010 at a straight-line rate
      of
      approximately $445,000 per year. Additionally, the Company is required to pay
      utilities, common area maintenance, cleaning, security and provide insurance.
      The lease amount increases annually throughout the life of the lease. The lease
      may be renewed for two additional terms of five years each. In November 2005,
      the Company subleased approximately 6,000 square feet of office space at a
      rate
      of approximately $73,500 per year through December 2010. 

If
      the
      Company is required to seek additional or replacement facilities, it believes
      there are adequate facilities available at commercially reasonable
      rates. 

Item
      3.         Legal
      Proceedings    

On
      April
      18, 2005, the Company received a letter from R2 Technology, Inc. ( R2 ), the
      Company s principal competitor, advising the Company of R2 s position that
      iCAD s Second Look  product lines allegedly infringed on US Patents 6,266,435,
      6,477,262 and 6,574,357, which are licensed to R2. These patents are
      continuations in part of the patents already licensed to iCAD by R2 under a
      September 2003 Settlement Agreement that resolved certain patent infringement
      litigation between iCAD and R2 (the  Settlement Agreement ). Under the
      Settlement Agreement, the rights of R2 to assert subsequent claims of
      infringement of this nature against iCAD are limited, and require reasonably
      detailed notice, the opportunity for negotiation and binding arbitration as
      a
      required alternative to litigation. A three member arbitration panel was named
      and t  he
      Company's patent dispute with R2, including counterclaims by the Company that
      R2
      infringes on US Patents 6,115,488, 6,556,699 and 6,650,766, which are owned
      by
      the Company, proceeded to a hearing before the panel on October 18 and 19,
      2005.
  Post-trial
      briefing was submitted on February 28, 2006 and a decision from the arbitrators
      is expected in April 2006.   While
      the
      Company remains confident that it does not infringe on any valid and enforceable
      R2 patent, and that R2 has infringed one or more of the Company's patents,
      the
      outcome of the arbitration can not be assured, and a negative finding by the
      arbitrators could have a material and adverse effect on the Company s
      business.    

Item
      4.         Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    

Not
      applicable 

28 

PART
      II   

Item
      5  .         Market
      for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
      Matters.   

The
      Company's Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol
       ICAD . The following table sets forth the range of high and low sale prices for
      each quarterly period during 2005 and 2004.             

As
      of
      March 23, 2006 there were 319 holders of record of the Company's Common Stock.
      In addition, the Company believes that there are in excess of 650 holders of
      the
      Common Stock whose shares are held in  street name .  

The
      Company has not paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock to date, and the
      Company does not contemplate payment of cash dividends in the foreseeable
      future. Future dividend policy will depend on the Company's earnings, capital
      requirements, financial condition, and other factors considered relevant to
      the
      Company's Board of Directors. There are no non-statutory restrictions on the
      Company's present or future ability to pay dividends. The Company currently
      has
      two outstanding Series of Preferred Stock that have dividend rights that are
      senior to holders of Common Stock. 

See
      Item
      12 for certain information with respect to the Company s equity compensation
      plans in effect at December 31, 2005. 

29 

Item
      6    .         Selected
      Financial Data   

The
      financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with "Management's
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and
      our audited financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31,
      2005, 2004, 2003 and the related notes included elsewhere in this report and
      in
      our prior reports on Form 10-K. The historical results of operations are not
      necessarily indicative of future results. 

Selected
          Statement of Operations Data   

Selected
          Balance Sheet Data    

30 

Item
      7    .         Management's
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and       Results
      of Operations     .  

Results
      of Operations  

Overview  

The
      Company develops and markets software-based computer aided detection (CAD)
      and
      decision support solutions for medical diagnostics, including early detection
      of
      breast cancer through screening and diagnostic mammography. The Company has
      positioned its Second Look  mammography products to meet the CAD needs of x-ray
      film-based (or analog) mammography practices and of practices which have made
      or
      are making the transition from film-based to digital breast image capture.
      The
      Company also provides complementary viewing products offering digital viewing
      benefits to otherwise film-based mammography practices, and comparative reading
      products supporting the transition of practices from film to digital workflows.
      Since receiving FDA approval for its first breast cancer detection product
      in
      2002, over 1,200 film-based and digital mammography practices have chosen iCAD
      early detection and comparative reading products, domestically and
      internationally. 

During
      2005, iCAD identified and addressed, or began to address, certain deficiencies
      in its ability to execute its business plan, in particular in the areas of
      marketing, sales management and channel management. iCAD s performance was
      adversely affected in 2005 by several factors related to these deficiencies.
      In
      particular (a) while anticipating a shift to more affordable, price sensitive
      film based options, the Company was not prepared for the conversion, adversely
      impacting sales at the end of the first quarter and into the second quarter;
      and
      (b) the Company s primary national product distributor effectively ceased
      operations in the third quarter of 2005, and the Company was not sufficiently
      prepared for loss of this distribution channel.  

In
      addition, the Company believes that the following factors and developments
      in
      2005 contributed to the decrease in sales, especially in the third and fourth
      quarters: 

In
                April 2005 the Company s principal competitor claimed that the Company
                infringed on certain patents of that competitor, and began a process
                leading to counterclaims by the Company and arbitration of the conflicting
                issues. In addition to creating a substantial legal expense for the
                Company, these proceedings have consumed significant management time
                and
                Company resources through the first quarter of 2006. See  Item 3 - Legal
                Proceedings .  

In
                mid-September 2005 a major clinical study was published in the New
                England
                Journal of Medicine, comparing the benefits of film-based and digital
                mammography. Results showed, among other findings, that digital
                mammography showed superior performance in detecting cancers in dense
                breasts and for younger women, characteristics relevant to a minority
                of
                current breast cancer screening patients. The Company believes that
                lower
                than anticipated third quarter revenue from sales of its film based-CAD
                systems is due in large part to the release of this study, which
                delayed
                capital budgeting and purchasing decisions for many film based clinics
                in
                the final stages of CAD product acquisition. Moreover, the Company
                believes that improved sales of film based products in the fourth
                quarter
                demonstrated that the effect of the study on CAD product purchases
                may
                have been temporary. 

31 

The
                arbitration between iCAD and its principal competitor led to discussions
                between them regarding the potential benefits of merging and combining
                the
                two companies. Extensive due diligence and negotiations occurred
                from
                October 2005 through February 2006. On February 5, 2006, the Company s
                Board of Directors voted unanimously to withdraw from such merger
                discussions. The Company believes that the time devoted by Company
                personnel to the potential merger and the impact on its sales staff
                adversely affected its ability to increase sales during the period
                while
                negotiations were ongoing.  

Since
      termination of merger discussions, iCAD s management has worked aggressively to
      reverse the impact on the Company and its personnel associated with the merger
      discussions and related due diligence process. The Company has also accelerated
      efforts to fill certain key personnel positions, including senior marketing,
      sales management and research, development and engineering positions and has
      engaged an outside search firm to assist in certain of these positions.

In
      2006,
      the Company is planning growth in revenue associated with growth in sales of
      its
      current products and the introduction of additional products in its core
      mammography market. The Company also anticipates legal and other expenses
      attributable to merger discussions and arbitration proceedings will be
      substantially reduced in 2006, contributing to improved financial performance.

Year
      Ended December 31, 2005 compared to Year Ended December 31,
      2004   

Sales   .
      Sales
      of the Company s CAD and medical imaging products for the year ended December
      31, 2005 were $19,769,822, compared with sales of CAD and medical imaging
      products for the year ended December 31, 2004 of $23,308,462. The sales decrease
      during 2005 was primarily due to a shift in customer demand towards more
      affordable CAD systems, which resulted in increased sales of the Company s lower
      priced    SecondLook    
      300 and
      200 products lines, from 106 units sold in 2004 to 165 units sold in 2005,
      rather than sales of its higher priced    SecondLook   
      700
      systems, which decreased from 139 units sold in 2004 to 45 units sold in 2005,
      that the Company had anticipated and resulted in an overall decrease of
      approximately $3,200,000 in its film-based analog products in 2005. The Company
      believes that sales of its lower priced SecondLook 300 will continue to increase
      in 2006. In addition, price competition became an increasing factor in the
      second quarter of 2005 as the Company s principal competitor lowered sale prices
      of its products to a level that was either the same as or, in certain cases,
      lower than prices charged by iCAD for its comparable systems. In 2005 the
      Company reduced gross sales by approximately $274,000 for rebates related to
      sales granted by it to certain customers to help offset increased competition
      from its principal competitor. 

Furthermore,
      in the third quarter of 2005 a major clinical study was published in the
   New
      England Journal of Medicine   ,
      comparing the benefits of film-based and digital mammography. The study results
      revealed, among other findings, that digital mammography showed superior
      performance in detecting cancers in dense breasts and for younger women. The
      Company believes that the release of this study delayed capital budgeting and
      purchasing decisions for enough film-based clinics in the final stages of CAD
      acquisition to adversely impact the Company s sales in the third quarter of
      2005.  

32 

The
      Company s sales improved in the fourth quarter of 2005 over sales recorded in
      the second and third quarter, as a result of the addition of sales staff and
      improvements in the Company s marketing efforts at the end of the third quarter
      of 2005. Additionally, in response to the Digital Mammography Study released
      in
      September 2005 the Company instituted its  Gateway to Digital  marketing
      program, which the Company believes had a positive impact on potential buyers.

The
      table
      below presents the number of units and sales attributable to different product
      and service types, in 2004 and 2005:  

Gross
      Margin   .
      Gross
      margin as a percentage of sales, for the year ended December 31, 2005, improved
      to 77% compared to 72% for the same period in 2004. The increase in the gross
      margin rate was primarily due to increases in sales, as a percentage of overall
      sales, of higher margin products for digital mammography.     Although
      there can be no assurance of its future gross margin rate, the Company expects
      that continued sales of its higher margin CAD products and increasing production
      economies will support gross margins at comparable levels in 2006 to those
      experienced in 2005. The Company further believes that increasing sales of
      products for digital mammography can contribute to increasing gross margins
      over
      time because these products are primarily software in nature and therefore,
      have
      lower cost than certain of the Company s analog products which had higher cost
      hardware components. 

33 

Engineering
      and Product Development   .
      Engineering and product development costs for the year ended December 31, 2005
      decreased slightly to $4,785,092 from $4,832,842 in 2004. The decrease primarily
      results from the action taken by the Company in the first quarter of 2004,
      following its merger with CADx, to reduce its workforce and close its office
      and
      software development group located in Tampa, Florida. In connection with these
      measures, the Company incurred approximately $280,000 in engineering severance
      benefits and office closure expenses.     Excluding
      the 2004 non-recurring expenses, engineering and product development costs
      increased in 2005 due to increases related to hardware engineering associated
      with completion of new products which have been announced, software engineering
      related to pending improved releases of the Company s breast cancer detection
      algorithms, and the expansion of the Company s efforts in product development
      for computed tomographic applications, especially early detection of colonic
      polyps. Over the course of 2006, the Company expects engineering and product
      development costs to decline as a percentage of sales, as sales are expected
      to
      increase at a greater rate than product development costs. 

General
      and Administrative.    General
      and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased
      by
      $1,830,240 or 36%, from $5,126,110 in 2004 to $6,956,350 in 2005. The increase
      in general and administrative expenses is primarily due to the increase in
      legal
      expense, totaling approximately $2,296,000 of which approximately $1,843,000
      was
      principally associated with the Company s current patent arbitration proceeding
      and $453,000 was associated with merger discussions with its competitor.
      Excluding the legal expense the Company s general and administrative expenses
      for the year ended December 31, 2005 would have been lower than the preceding
      year as a result of actions taken by the Company in 2005, to reduce its staff
      and associated expenses. The Company expects that overall general and
      administrative expenses will decline in 2006 as a percentage of sales, as sales
      are expected to increase at a greater rate than general and administrative
      expenses. 

Marketing
      and Sales Expenses.    Marketing
      and sales expenses increased from $7,083,433 in 2004 to $8,146,850 in 2005.
      The
      increase in marketing and sales expenses primarily results from the increase
      in
      sales force and related travel expenses and in its advertising and promotional
      costs in 2005. In general, the Company expects marketing and sales expenses
      to
      decline in 2006 as a percentage of sales, as sales are expected to increase
      at a
      greater rate than marketing and sales expenses. 

Interest
      Expense   .
      Net
      interest for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased from $561,044 in 2004
      to
      $3,961 in 2005. The decrease in net interest expense during 2005 is primarily
      due to the repayment of $3,330,000, in December 2004, that the Company had
      previously borrowed from its Chairman, Mr. Robert Howard, pursuant to a
      Revolving Loan and Security Agreement with Mr. Howard (the  Loan Agreement ) and
      the increase in interest income earned on its cash balance.  

34 

Net
      Loss.   
      As a
      result of the foregoing, the Company recorded a net loss of ($4,758,488) or
      ($0.13) per share for the year ended December 31, 2005 on sales of $19,769,822,
      compared to a net loss of ($828,263) or ($0.03) per share on sales of
      $23,308,462 for the year ended December 31, 2004.  

Year
      Ended December 31, 2004 compared to Year Ended December 31,
      2003   

Sales   .
      Sales
      of the Company s CAD and medical imaging products for the year ended December
      31, 2004 were $23,308,462, compared with sales of CAD and medical imaging
      products for the year ended December 31, 2003 of $6,520,306. The sales increase
      during 2004 was due in large part to contributions from acquired CADx products
      and sales channels, which were not included in 2003 results. During 2004 iCAD
      concentrated its distribution development efforts on SourceOne Healthcare,
      Inc.
      (CADx  national distributor prior to iCAD s acquisition of CADx), and on
      selected complementary independent resellers.  

During
      the first quarter of 2004,  
      and as a
      result of its acquisition of CADx, multiple changes in its sales channels,
      sales
      management and organization, product naming, positioning and marketing were
      implemented. In connection with the consolidation of sales channels and product
      lines, the Company believed that iCAD created the broadest and most
      comprehensive line of CAD products available in the industry and associated
      it
      with a single, well-recognized model brand     Second
      Look     . 

In
      2004
      the Company believed that it had completed the transformation of iCAD from
      a
      manufacturer of printing and photo scanning equipment with limited growth
      opportunities, to a growing world leader in the much larger market for early
      detection of cancer solutions.  

Factors
      that the Company expected would play a significant role in its potential sales
      growth and potential for profitability included the following: 

Sales
                of early cancer detection products for film-based mammography by
                and
                through additional resellers; 

Sales
                of additional products, especially the Company s lower price    Second
                Look   
                200  CAD breast cancer detection
                system; 

Contribution
                from a fee per service program, which the Company calls ClickCAD , and
                actively began promoting in the fourth quarter of
                2004; 

Sales
                of cancer detection products for digital mammography by and through
                additional OEM channels previously announced by the Company;

Gross
      Margin   .
      Gross
      margin as a percentage of sales, for the year ended December 31, 2004, improved
      to 72% compared to 55% for the same period in 2003. The increase in the gross
      margin rate was primarily due to increases in sales of higher margin products
      for digital mammography.     Although
      there could be no assurance of its future gross margin rate, the Company
      expected that continued sales of its higher margin CAD products and increasing
      production economies and economies of scale resulting from the merger with
      CADx
      would support gross margins at comparable levels to those experienced in 2004.
      The Company further believed that increasing sales of products for digital
      mammography could contribute to increasing gross margins over time because
      these
      products are primarily software in nature and therefore, have lower cost than
      certain of the Company s prior products which had higher cost hardware
      components. 

35 

Engineering
      and Product Development   .
      Engineering and product development costs for the year ended December 31, 2004
      increased to $4,832,842 from $2,384,057 in 2003. The increase in engineering
      and
      product development costs primarily resulted from the Company s addition, as a
      result of its acquisition of CADx, of a software technology development group
      to
      support its CAD products and new product development. The Company also
      redirected a portion of its research and engineering resources to accelerate
      the
      delivery of new iCAD products, such as applying iCAD s core CAD and clinical
      decision support technologies to additional medical applications. Additionally,
      during the first quarter of 2004 the Company took action following its merger
      with CADx to reduce its workforce and close its office and software development
      group located in Tampa, Florida. In connection with these measures, the Company
      incurred approximately $280,000 in non-recurring engineering severance benefits
      and office closure expenses.  

T  he
      Company s technologies were also being applied to the early detection of breast
      cancer using ultrasound; the early detection of lung cancer utilizing low-dose
      spiral Computed Tomography (CT) and the early detection of colon cancer
      utilizing CT. With support provided through the FY 2004 and FY 2005 Defense
      Appropriations Bills,   iCAD
      had
      begun collaboration with the Walter Reed Army Medical Center and the
      Windber Research Institute in Windber, PA, to develop and evaluate 3D CAD
      technology for breast imaging based on existing CAD and pattern analysis
      techniques for conventional mammograms. One objective of this research project
      was to use ultrasound imaging to reduce biopsies which prove to be unnecessary.
        Research
      programs in cardiovascular disease applications were also in the planning
      stages. 

General
      and Administrative.    General
      and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004 decreased
      by
      $2,313,611 or 31%, from $7,439,721 in 2003 to $5,126,110 in 2004. The decrease
      primarily resulted from the following non-recurring expenses recorded in 2003.
      During the third quarter of 2003 the Company recorded a one-time write off
      in
      the amount of $1,443,628 attributable to its distribution agreement with
      Instrumentarium Imaging, Inc., ( Instrumentarium ), which it assumed as part of
      the Company s acquisition of Intelligent Systems Software, Inc. in June 2002.
      This write-off came after assessing the performance of Instrumentarium and
      in
      light of the Company s implementation of alternative distribution channels,
      thereby eliminating the distribution agreement as a depreciating asset.
      Additionally, during the third quarter of 2003, the Company accounted for over
      $2,702,000 in non-recurring expenses related to the settlement of R2 Technology
      patent infringement litigation and related legal expenses.  

Excluding
      the 2003 write offs and non-recurring expenses, general and administrative
      expenses increased in 2004 due to increases in salaries, administrative costs
      and amortization of intangible assets of approximately $1,550,000, resulting
      from the Company s acquisition of CADx. Additional increases in general and
      administrative expenses, reflected approximately $50,000 in non-recurring
      severance benefits and other expenses associated with reductions of staff,
      in
      the first quarter of 2004, made possible by the combination of CADx and iCAD,
      a
      write-off of fixed assets relating to the closure of the iCAD office in Tampa,
      Florida and approximately $200,000 in consulting and accounting costs associated
      with the Company s compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
      2002.  

36 

Marketing
      and Sales   .
      Marketing and sales expenses increased from $1,838,618 in 2003 to $7,083,433
      in
      2004. The increase in marketing and sales expenses primarily resulted from
      the
      Company s addition, as a result of its acquisition of CADx, of sales, marketing
      and service organizations to support its CAD products and distribution channels.
      The Company took action following the merger to reduce its workforce, close
      its
      office in San Rafael, California, and eliminate duplication in marketing and
      other activities. The Company had incurred approximately $200,000 in
      non-recurring marketing and sales severance benefits and office closure expenses
      in the first quarter of 2004. During the fourth quarter of 2004 the Company
      increased marketing and advertising expenses associated with trade show
      participation and increased advertising of new and existing products.

Interest
      Expense   .
      Net
      interest for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased from $114,655 in 2003
      to
      $561,044 in 2004. This increase was primarily due to the addition,     as
      a
      result of iCAD s acquisition of CADx, of a 36-month secured promissory note in
      the amount of $4,500,000 to purchase CADx shares that were owned by two
      institutional investors.  

Net
      Loss.   
      As a
      result of the foregoing, the Company recorded a net loss of ($828,263) or
      ($0.03) per share for the year ended December 31, 2004 on sales of $23,308,462,
      compared to a net loss of ($8,198,408) or ($0.31) per share on sales of
      $6,520,306 for the year ended December 31, 2003.  

Liquidity
      and Capital Resources  

The
      Company believes that its current liquidity and capital resources are sufficient
      to support and sustain operations through at least the next 12 months, primarily
      due to continuing operations and the availability of a $5,000,000 credit line
      under the Loan Agreement with its Chairman, Mr. Robert Howard, of which
      $4,741,094 was available at December 31, 2005. The Loan Agreement expires March
      31, 2007, subject to extension by the parties. Outstanding advances are
      collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and bear
      interest at prime interest rate plus 1%, (8.25% at December 31, 2005). The
      Company's ability to generate cash adequate to meet its future capital
      requirements beyond the next 12 months will depend primarily on operating cash
      flow. If sales or cash collections are reduced from current expectations, or
      if
      expenses and cash requirements are increased, the Company may require additional
      financing.  

Working
      capital decreased $5,208,927 to $3,090,099 at December 31, 2005 from $8,299,026
      at December 31, 2004. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities at
      December 31, 2005 and 2004 was 1.4 and 2.4, respectively. These decreases
      resulted primarily from the net loss of $4,758,488 during 2005. 

37 

Net
      cash
      used for operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 was
      $1,296,584 compared to $1,950,038 used for the same period in 2004. The cash
      used for the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted from the net loss of
      $4,758,488, increases in inventory of $1,503,661, and the payment of accrued
      interest of approximately $623,000 owed to Mr. Howard pursuant to the Loan
      Agreement, offset by the decrease in accounts receivable and prepaid assets
      totaling $1,133,094 and increases in accounts payable, accrued expenses and
      deferred revenue totaling $2,799,181, plus non-cash depreciation and
      amortization of $1,631,944 and a stock based compensation expense relative
      to a
      stock option grant of $24,333.  

The
      net
      cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 was
      $1,056,405 compared to $472,638 used for the same period in 2004. The cash
      used
      in investing activities in 2005 included the addition of $1,056,405 for tooling,
      computer equipment, and leasehold improvements.  

Net
      cash
      used for financing activities in the year ended December 31, 2005 was $1,050,311
      compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $5,329,788 for the
      same
      period in 2004. The net cash used for financing activities during the year
      ended
      December 31, 2005 consisted of the payment of the notes payable in the amount
      of
      $1,541,094, offset by cash received due to the issuance of common stock relating
      to exercise of stock options in the amount of $490,783.  

On
      December 24, 2004, the Company sold 1,872,222 shares of its common stock for
      $4.50 per share in a private placement to institutional investors. The net
      proceeds to the Company for the 1,872,222 shares sold were approximately
      $8,325,000. In connection with these transactions the Company issued warrants
      to
      purchase 936,111 shares of the Company s common stock. The warrants are
      exercisable for a period of five years from the closing of the offering at
      an
      exercise price of $5.50 per share. 

In
      the
      fourth quarter of 2003, the Company sold 1,260,000 shares of its common stock
      for $5.00 per share in a private placement to institutional investors. The
      Company also issued to such investors  additional investment rights to purchase
      up to an additional 315,000 shares of its common stock at $5.00 per share.
      The
      net proceeds to the Company for the 1,260,000 shares sold were approximately
      $5,919,000. In February 2004, a total of 90,000 shares of the Company s common
      stock were issued in connection with the exercise of certain additional
      investment rights issued in 2003. The remaining investment rights expired
      unexercised. The net proceeds to the Company for the 90,000 shares sold were
      approximately $418,000. The placement agent for these transactions received
      compensation in the amount of approximately $404,000 and a five year warrant
      to
      purchase 67,200 shares of the Company s common stock at $5.00 per share.

On
      December 31, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of CADx in exchange
      for
      4,300,000 shares of the Company s common stock to certain stockholders of Qualia
      Computing, Inc. Additionally, the Company paid $1,550,000 in cash and executed
      a
      36-month secured promissory note in the amount of $4,500,000 to purchase Qualia
      shares that were owned by two institutional investors.  

The
      following table summarizes, for the periods presented, the Company s future
      estimated cash payment under existing contractual obligations. 

38 

*
      Interest based on rate at December 31, 2005 of 8.25%. The Company s interest
      obligation relating to its Convertible Revolving Loan Agreement with Mr. Howard,
      its Chairman, is not included in this table.  

Effect
      of New Accounting Pronouncements  

In
      December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No.
      123R, Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123R), which replaces SFAS 123, Accounting
      for
      Stock-Based Compensation, and supersedes Accounting Principles Board ( APB )
      Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS 123R requires
      all
      share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options,
      to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values
      beginning with the first interim or annual period after June 15, 2005. In April
      2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) postponed the effective
      date of SFAS 123R until the issuers first fiscal year beginning after June
      15,
      2005. Under the current rules, the Company will be required to adopt SFAS 123R
      in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. 

Under
      SFAS 123R, pro forma disclosures previously permitted will no longer be an
      alternative to financial statement recognition. The Company must determine
      the
      appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share-based payments to
      employees, the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition
      method to be used at the date of adoption. The transition methods include
      modified prospective and retrospective adoption options. Additionally, SFAS
      123R
      clarifies the timing for recognizing compensation expense for awards subject
      to
      acceleration of vesting on retirement and also specifies the treatment of excess
      tax benefits associated with stock compensation.  

In
      March
      2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107) regarding
      the
      SEC s interpretation of SFAS 123R and the valuation of share-based payments for
      public companies. The Company is evaluating the requirements of SFAS 123R and
      SAB 107 and expects that the adoption of SFAS 123R may have a material impact
      on
      the Company's consolidated results of operations and earnings per share.

39 

In
      May
      2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
      (SFAS 154) which replaces APB Opinions No. 20 Accounting Changes and SFAS No.
      3,
      Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. An Amendment
      of
      APB Opinion No. 28. SFAS 154 provides guidance on the accounting for and
      reporting of accounting changes and error corrections. It establishes
      retrospective application, or the latest practicable date, as the required
      method for reporting a change in accounting principle and the reporting of
      a
      correction of an error. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and
      corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005,
      and is required to be adopted by the Company in the first quarter of fiscal
      2006. The     Company
      is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of SFAS 154 will have
      on
      its consolidated results of operations and financial condition, but does not
      expect it will have a material impact. 

Item
      7A     .        Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk     .  

Not
      applicable. 

Item
      8     .        Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data     .  

See
      Financial Statements and Schedule attached hereto. 

Item
      9     .        Changes
      in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure     .  

Not
      applicable. 

Item
      9A.              Controls
      and Procedures    

Evaluation
      of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.  

The
      Company, under the supervision and with the participation of its management,
      including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer,
      evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure
      controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report.
      Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal
      financial officer concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and
      procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934
      ( Exchange Act )) were effective at the reasonable level of assurance.

A
      control
      system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable,
      not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.
      Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are
      resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative
      to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems,
      no
      evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues
      and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. Because
      of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements
      due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The Company conducts
      periodic evaluations to enhance, where necessary its procedures and
      controls. 

40 

Management s
      Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  

The
      Company, under the supervision and with the participation of its management,
      including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer,
      is
      responsible for the preparation and integrity of the Company's Consolidated
      Financial Statements, establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
      over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-(f)) for the
      Company and all related information appearing in this Annual Report on Form
      10-K 

All
      internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent
      limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can
      provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
      preparation and presentation. Also, projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

The
      Company employed the Internal Control-Integrated Framework founded by the
      Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission to evaluate
      the
      effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
      Management of iCAD, Inc. has assessed the Company's internal control over
      financial reporting to be effective as of the end of December 31, 2005.

The
      assessment of the Company s management of the effectiveness of the Company s
      internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 has been
      audited by BDO Seidman LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,
      as
      stated in its report which is included below.  

Changes
      in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  

The
      Company s principal executive officer and principal financial officer conducted
      an evaluation of the Company's internal control over financial reporting (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) to determine whether any changes in
      internal control over financial reporting occurred during the quarter ended
      December 31, 2005, that have materially affected or which are reasonably likely
      to materially affect internal control over financial reporting. Based on that
      evaluation, there has been no such change during such period.  

41 

To
      the
      Board of Directors and Stockholders of ICAD, Inc.  

      Nashua,
      New Hampshire 

We
      have
      audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s
      Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A
      of
      iCAD, Inc s. Annual Report on Form 10-k for the fiscal year ended December 31,
      2005, that iCAD, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) maintained effective
      internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on
      criteria established in    Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework   
      issued
      by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
      The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
      control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
      of
      internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express
      an
      opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the
      Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We
      conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
      internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
      respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
      over
      financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating
      the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
      such
      other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
      that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

A
      company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
      financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
      to
      the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
      reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
      provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
      permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
      accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
      being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
      of
      the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
      detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
      assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because
      of the inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
      not
      prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

In
      our
      opinion, management s assessment that the Company maintained effective internal
      control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated,
      in
      all material respects, based on the criteria established in    Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework   
      issued
      by COSO. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
      effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005
      based on the criteria established in    Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework   
      issued
      by COSO.  

We
      have
      also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial
      statements of the Company as of  December 31, 2005 and
      2004 and the related consolidated statement of operations, stockholders'
      equity, and cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2005
      and our report dated March 31, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those
      financial statements.  

/s/
      BDO
      Seidman, LLP  

Boston,
      Massachusetts 

      March
      31,
      2006  

42 

Item
      9B.              Other
      Information   

The
      Company has renewed the Loan Agreement with Robert Howard, Chairman of the
      Board of Directors of the Company, which now expires March 31, 2007. In
      addition,  the parties confirmed their previous agreement that effective
      January 1, 2004 the interest rate on the Loan Agreement is 1% above
      prime. 

PART
      III   

Item
      10     .        Directors
      and Executive Officers of the Registrant     .  

+ 
      Class I Director, current term expires in 2006 

      * 
      Class II Director, current term expires in 2007 

      # 
      Class III Director, current term expires in 2008 

The
      Company s Certificate of Incorporation provides that the Company s Board of
      Directors is divided into three classes (Class I, Class II and Class III). 
At each Annual Meeting of stockholders, directors constituting one class are
      elected for a three-year term. 

43 

Robert
      Howard   ,
      the
      founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, was the inventor
      of the first impact dot matrix printer. Mr. Howard was Chief Executive Officer
      of the Company from its establishment in 1984 until December of 1993. He was
      the
      founder, and from 1969 to April 1980 he served as President and Chairman of
      the
      Board, of Centronics Data Computer Corp. ("Centronics"), a manufacturer of
      a
      variety of computer printers. He resigned from Centronics  board of directors in
      1983. From April 1980 until 1983, Mr. Howard was principally engaged in the
      management of his investments. Commencing in mid-1982, Mr. Howard, doing
      business as R.H. Research, developed the ink jet technology upon which the
      Company was initially based. Mr. Howard contributed this technology, without
      compensation, to the Company  .
        Mr.
      Howard was Chairman of the Board of Presstek, Inc. ( Presstek ), a public
      company which has developed proprietary imaging and consumables technologies
      for
      the printing and graphic arts industries from June 1988 to September 1998 and
      served as Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Presstek from September 1998 to
      December 2000. Mr. Howard is Chairman of the Board of Ionatron, Inc.
      ( Ionatron ) a public company involved in the development and marketing of
      directed energy weapon technology products.  

W.
      Scott Parr   
      joined
      the Company in January 1998 as President and Chief Executive Officer. He was
      appointed to the Company s Board of Directors in February 1998. Prior to joining
      iCAD, Mr. Parr served as Divisional Director and a member of the Board of
      Directors of SABi International Ventures, Inc. where he was responsible for
      restructuring and upgrading certain U.S. companies owned by foreign and venture
      investors. From 1995 to 1997 Mr. Parr was Chief Executive Officer, General
      Counsel and Director of Allied Logic Corporation, a start-up venture
      specializing in proprietary molding and manufacturing technologies. From 1990
      to
      1995 Mr. Parr was General Counsel and a Director of LaserMaster Technologies,
      Inc.  

Annette
      Heroux    joined
      the Company in October 1987 as Accounting Manager and was named Controller
      in
      October 1998 and Vice President of Finance, Chief Financial Officer in July
      1999. Prior to joining the Company, from 1980 to 1987, Ms. Heroux served as
      Finance and Administration Manager of Laurier, Inc., a semiconductor equipment
      manufacturer, where she was responsible for the financial reporting and
      administrative functions. From 1978 to 1980 Ms. Heroux was Accounting Manager
      for Hoodkroft Nursing Center, a skilled nursing facility, where she was
      responsible for patient insurance and financial records.  

James
      Harlan   
      has been
      the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of HNG Storage Company,
      a natural gas storage, development and operations company since 1998. From
      1991
      to 1997 Mr. Harlan served as General Manager and Chief Financial Officer of
      Pacific Resources Group where he was responsible for the planning and financial
      development of various manufacturing and distribution businesses in Asia. He
      also served as operations research and planning analyst for the White House
      Office of Energy Policy and Planning from 1977 to 1978, the Department of Energy
      from 1978 to 1981, and U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corporation from 1981 to 1984.
      Mr.
      Harlan is a director of Ionatron. 

Maha
      Sallam   
      has been
      the Executive Vice President for the Company since June 2002. From 1997
  until
      the
      acquisition of ISSI in June 2002,  
      Dr.
      Sallam served as Director and Vice President of Regulatory Affairs and Clinical
      Testing and Secretary of ISSI. She was one of ISSI s founders and has over
      fourteen years of industry and research experience in image analysis including
      a
      doctoral dissertation, conference presentations and several publications on
      the
      automated analysis of digital mammograms.  

44 

Elliot
      Sussman   
      is
      currently President and Chief Executive Officer of Lehigh Valley Hospital and
      Health Network, a position he has held since 1993. Dr. Sussman is the Leonard
      Parker Pool Professor of Health Systems Management, Professor of Medicine,
      and
      Professor of Health Evaluation Sciences at Pennsylvania State University s
      College of Medicine. Dr. Sussman served as a Fellow in General Medicine and
      a
      Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholar at the University of Pennsylvania, and
      trained as a resident at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania.

George
      Farley,    a
      Certified Public Accountant, is currently a financial consultant, a position
      he
      has held since August 1999. From November 1997 to August 1999 Mr. Farley served
      as Chief Financial Officer and Director for Talk America, Inc (formerly
      Talk.com, Inc.). He previously held the position as National Director, Managing
      Partner of BDO Seidman, LLP, where he specialized in Capital Formation and
      Mergers and Acquisitions. In addition to his service as director at Talk
      America, he has held directorships at Preserver Insurance Group, Acorn Holding
      Corp., and   is
      currently a director of Ionatron.    

Dr.
      Herschel Sklaroff   
      has been
      in private practice since 1966 and is currently involved in the establishment
      of
      the new Diagnostic and Preventive Medical Center at The Mount Sinai Hospital
      where he will serve as Associate Director. Dr. Sklaroff served his internship,
      medical residency and residency in Cardiology at The Mount Sinai Hospital of
      New
      York City where he was Chief Resident. Dr. Sklaroff served, from 1980 to 1990
      as
      Chief of Medical Consultation Services, and from 1978 to 1990 as Chief of
      General Medicine, both at The Mount Sinai Hospital. 

Dr.
      Rachel Brem   
      is
      currently the Director of Breast Imaging and Intervention, Professor of
      Radiology and the Vice-Chairman in the Department of Radiology at The George
      Washington University Medical Center, positions she has held since 2000. From
      1991 to 1999 Dr. Brem was the Director of Breast Imaging at the John Hopkins
      Medical Center. Dr. Brem s research includes Minimally Invasive Breast Biopsy,
      New Technologies for the Earlier Diagnosis of breast cancer including Computer
      Aided Detection, as well as Nuclear Medicine Imaging of the Breast and
      Electrical Impedance Imaging of the Breast.  

Thomas
      Shoup   
      has been
      the Chief of Staff for the Company since December 2003. Mr. Shoup joined the
      Company with the acquisition of Qualia Computing, Inc., where he had served
      as
      Chief Operating Officer since December 2000. From 1996 to 2000 Mr. Shoup was
      President and Chief Operating Officer of CAD CAM Inc., where he grew the company
      and negotiated the sale of this privately held business to a Canadian public
      enterprise. From 1985 to 1996 Mr. Shoup served as Base Civil Engineer for the
      US
      Air Force s largest continental installation, Wright-Patterson AFB, responsible
      over 20 million square feet of scientific, engineering and logistical facilities
      and a workforce in excess of 1,000 personnel. 

Samuel
      Ronci    the
      Company s Vice President of Operations since February 2005, joined the Company
      in December 2004. From 2000 to December 2004, Mr. Ronci was Vice President
      of
      Development for Elicon Multimedia, a web based company that promotes corporate
      presentations, to include web presentations, trade shows and product promotions.
      From 1987 to 2000 Mr. Ronci was President of Ronci Medical which later became
      Ronci Surgical, a Division of Minnesota Scientific Inc. Ronci Medical designed
      patient positioning equipment for various Arthroscopic surgical
      procedures. 

45 

Janet
      Sterritt   
      the
      Company s Vice President of Business Development since July 2005, joined the
      Company in January 2001. She is responsible for the Company s product
      development and managed the engineering team involved in the design of iCAD s
   SecondLook
      200, 300   
      and the
      new    TotalLook   
      product.
      Prior to joining the Company, f  rom
      1997
      to 2001, Ms. Sterritt was Director of Marketing and Business Development for
      ImageLabs, a Tele-cardiology/PACS company. From 1993 to 1997, Ms. Sterritt
      planned business strategy and product development that diversified Howtek into
      medical products, creating the ScanMaster and later the MultiRAD Medical Film
      Digitizer and served as the first head of the Howtek Medical Group.

The
      Company has an audit committee of the Board of Directors ("Audit Committee")
      consisting of Messrs. Harlan, Farley and Sussman. Each member of the Audit
      Committee is an "independent director" under the rules of the NASD and the
      Company's Board has determined that Mr. Farley is the Audit
      Committee's financial expert under applicable rules of the Securities and
      Exchange Commission ("SEC") and NASD Marketplace Rules.  

Compliance
      with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act       

Section
      16(a) of the Exchange Act requires the Company's officers and directors, and
      persons who own more than 10 percent of a registered class of the Company's
      equity securities, to file reports of ownership and changes in ownership with
      the SEC. Officers, directors, and greater than 10 percent stockholders are
      required by SEC regulation to furnish the Company with copies of all Section
      16(a) forms they file. 

Based
      solely on the Company's review of copies of such forms received by the Company,
      the Company believes that during the year ended December 31, 2005, all filing
      requirements applicable to all officers, directors, and greater than 10%
      beneficial stockholders were timely complied with, except for Dr. Herschel
      Sklaroff who filed a late Form 4 with respect to his conversion of shares of
      the
      Companies Series A Preferred Stock. 

Code
      of Business Conduct and Ethics   

The
      Company developed and adopted a comprehensive Code of Business Conduct and
      Ethics to cover all employees. Copies of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
      can be obtained, without charge, upon written request, addressed
      to: 

iCAD,
      Inc. 

      4
      Townsend West 

      Nashua,
      NH 03063  

      Attention:
      Corporate Secretary  

46 

Item
      11     .        Executive
      Compensation     .  

The
      following table provides information on the compensation provided by the Company
      during fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003 to (i) the Company's Chief Executive
      Officer, (ii) the four highest paid executive officers other than the Company s
      Chief Executive Officer, who served in such capacity during 2005 and at the
      end
      of 2005, and (iii) the Company s former Vice President of Sales and Marketing
      (collectively  the Named Persons ).  

SUMMARY
      COMPENSATION TABLE  

(1)
        Messrs  .
        DeBiase
      and Fister     joined
      the Company with the acquisition of Qualia Computing, Inc. in December 2003
      and
      were elected   Executive
      Officers of iCAD in 2005. Mr. DeBiase served as Executive Officer until November
      2005. Mr. Fister served until his resignation in the first quarter of
      2006. 

OPTION
      GRANTS IN LAST FISCAL YEAR  

The
      following table sets forth certain information regarding stock options granted
      by the Company to those Named Persons who were granted options in
      2005. 

47 

(1)
        All
      of
      the foregoing options vest between March 11, 2005 and December 30,
      2005.    

(2)
      The
      potential realizable value columns of the table illustrate values that might
      be
      realized upon exercise of the options immediately prior to their expiration,
      assuming the Company s Common Stock appreciates at the compounded rates
      specified over the term of the options. These numbers do not take into account
      provisions of options providing for termination of the option following
      termination of employment or non transferability of the options and do not
      make
      any provision for taxes associated with exercise. Because actual gains will
      depend upon, among other things, future performance of the Common Stock, there
      can be no assurance that the amounts reflected in this table will be
      achieved. 

AGGREGATED
      OPTION EXERCISES IN LAST FISCAL YEAR  

       AND
      FISCAL YEAR-END OPTION VALUES  

The
      following table sets forth information regarding the exercise of stock options
      during the Company's last completed fiscal year by each of the Named Persons
      and
      the fiscal year-end value of unexercised options.    

The
      Company does not have any employment agreements with its current executive
      officers. 

Separation
      Agreement with Former Officer   

On
      February 16, 2005, the Company entered into a separation agreement and release
      with Dr. Steven K. Rogers (the  Agreement ) in connection with Dr. Rogers 
resignation as Chief Scientific Officer and Director of the Company. Dr. Rogers
      was formerly President and Chief Executive Officer of Qualia Computing, Inc.,
      a
      company acquired by the Company in December, 2003. Pursuant to the Agreement,
      the Company and Dr. Rogers agreed to negotiate a consulting agreement (the
       Consulting Agreement ) under which Dr. Rogers served as the Company s Chief
      Consulting Scientist. The Consulting Agreement provided for a one-year term
      which could be terminated upon 30 days written notice by (i) Dr. Rogers for
      any
      reason or (ii) the Company for just and reasonable cause. During the period
      of
      the Consulting Agreement and for a period of two years thereafter, Dr. Rogers
      reaffirmed his previous agreements not to compete with the Company, not to
      solicit employees of the Company, and not to disclose confidential information
      of the Company. The Company and Dr. Rogers indicated the change in roles would
      permit Dr. Rogers to commit a portion of his time to academic activities and
      research unrelated to the Company s business. Dr. Rogers terminated the
      Consulting Agreement during the second quarter of 2005. 

48 

COMPENSATION
      OF DIRECTORS  

The
      Company does not pay cash compensation to members of its board of directors
      for
      their services as board members. The Company does reimburse members of the
      board
      for out-of-pocket expenses incurred for attendance at board and board committee
      meetings. There were no stock options granted to the directors during
      2005. 

COMPENSATION
      COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION  

The
      Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for, among
      other
      things, assisting the Board in overseeing the Company s executive compensation
      strategy and reviewing and approving the compensation of the Company s executive
      officers.   The
      current members of the Compensation Committee are: Elliot Sussman, Chairperson;
      Rachel Brem; and James Harlan.  

During
      2005 none of the executive officers of the Company served on the Board of
      Directors or Compensation Committee of any other entity.  

49 

Item
      12     .        Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management     .  

The
      following table sets forth certain information regarding the Common Stock,
      Series A and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company owned on March
      1, 2006, by (i) each person who is known to the Company to own beneficially
      more
      than 5% of the outstanding shares of the Company's Common Stock (ii) each Named
      Person (iii) each director of the Company, and (iv) all current executive
      officers and directors as a group. The table also provides information regarding
      beneficial owners of more than 5% of the outstanding shares of the Company s
      Series A and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. Unless otherwise indicated
      below, the address of each beneficial owner is c/o iCAD, Inc. 4 Townsend West,
      Suite 17, Nashua, New Hampshire 03063. 

*
        Less
        than one percent 

50 

1) 

A
                person is deemed to be the beneficial owner of securities that can
                be
                acquired by such person within 60 days from March 1, 2006, upon the
                exercise of options, warrants or rights; through the conversion of
                a
                security; pursuant to the power to revoke a trust, discretionary
                account
                or similar arrangement; or pursuant to the automatic termination
                of a
                trust, discretionary account or similar arrangement. Each beneficial
                owner's percentage ownership is determined by assuming that the options
                or
                other rights to acquire beneficial ownership as described above,
                that are
                held by such person (but not those held by any other person) and
                which are
                exercisable within 60 days from March 1, 2006, have been
                exercised. 

2) 

Unless
                otherwise noted, the Company believes that the persons referred to
                in the
                table have sole voting and investment power with respect to all shares
                reflected as beneficially owned by
                them. 

7) 

Includes
                options to purchase 45,000 shares of the Company s Common Stock at $3.35
                per share. Also, includes 39,500 shares of Common Stock issuable
                upon
                conversion of 79 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred
                Stock. 

51 

Equity
      Compensation Plan  

The
      following table provides certain information with respect to all of the
      Company s equity compensation plans in effect as of December 31, 2005.

(1)  
               
                  Represents
                  the aggregate number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise
                  of
                  individual arrangements with option and warrant holders. These
                  options and
                  warrants are five years in duration, expire at various dates between
                  November 24, 2008 and December 15, 2009, contain anti-dilution
                  provisions
                  providing for adjustments of the exercise price under certain
                  circumstances and have termination provisions similar to options
                  granted
                  under stockholder approved plans. See Note 8 of Notes to the Consolidated
                  Financial Statements for a description of the Company s Stock Option
                  Plans.  

52 

Item
      13     .        Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions     .  

The
      Company has entered into the Loan Agreement with Mr. Robert Howard, Chairman
      of
      the Board of Directors of the Company, under which Mr. Howard has agreed to
      advance funds, or to provide guarantees of advances made by third parties in
      an
      amount up to $5,000,000. The Loan Agreement expires March 31, 2007, subject
      to
      extension by the parties. Outstanding advances are collateralized by
      substantially all of the assets of the Company and bear interest at prime
      interest rate plus 1% (8.25% at December 31, 2005). Mr. Howard is entitled
      to
      convert outstanding advances made by him under the Loan Agreement into shares
      of
      the Company's common stock at any time based on the outstanding closing market
      price of the Company's common stock at the lesser of the market price at the
      time each advance is made or at the time of conversion.  

During
      the fourth quarter of 2005, based on a previous agreement from Mr. Howard to
      reduce the interest rate pursuant to the Loan Agreement to prime rate plus
      1%,
      the Company applied an interest overpayment totaling $41,094 to the principal
      balance of the loan. As of December 31, 2005, $258,906 was owed by the Company
      to Mr. Howard and the Company had $4,741,094 available for future borrowings
      under the Loan Agreement.  

On
      February 16, 2005, the Company entered into a separation agreement and release
      with Dr. Steven K. Rogers in connection with Dr. Rogers  resignation as Chief
      Scientific Officer and Director of the Company. Dr. Rogers was formerly
      President and Chief Executive Officer of Qualia Computing, Inc., a company
      acquired by the Company in December, 2003. See Item 11. Executive Compensation
      -
  Separation
      Agreement with Former Officer. 

Ite      m
      14     .
              Principal
      Accounting Fees and Services        

Audit
      Fees.    
      The aggregate fees billed by BDO Seidman, LLP for professional services rendered
      for the audit of the Company's annual financial statements for the years ended
      December 31, 2005 and 2004, the review of the financial statements included
      in
      the Company's Forms 10-Q and consents issued in connection with the Company s
      filings on Form S-3 and S-8 for 2005 and 2004 totaled   $258,050
      and $209,289, respe  ctively.

Audit-Related
      Fees.    
      T  he
      aggregate fees billed by BDO Seidman, LLP for assurance and related services
      that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the
      Company's financial statements, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
        and
        are
      not
      disclosed in the paragraph captions  Audit Fees  above, were $10,335 and $24,000
      respectively.    

53 

The
      Audit
      Committee has established its pre-approval policies and procedures, pursuant
      to
      which the Audit Committee approved the foregoing audit services provided by
      BDO
      Seidman, LLP in 2005.  Consistent with the Audit Committee's responsibility
      for engaging the Company s independent auditors, all audit and permitted
      non-audit services require pre-approval by the Audit Committee.  The full
      Audit Committee pre-approves proposed services and fee estimates for these
      services.  The Audit Committee chairperson or their designee has been
      designated by the Audit Committee to pre-approve any services arising during
      the
      year that were not pre-approved by the Audit Committee.  Services
      pre-approved by the Audit Committee chairperson are communicated to the full
      Audit Committee at its next regular meeting and the Audit Committee reviews
      services and fees for the fiscal year at each such meeting.  Pursuant to
      these procedures, the Audit Committee pre-approved the foregoing audit services
      provided by BDO Seidman, LLP. 

No
      tax
      fees or other fees were paid to BDO Seidman, LLP for the years ended December
      31, 2005 and 2004. 

54 

PART
      IV  

Item
      15     .       Exhibits,
      Financial Statements, and Schedules  

a)  
             
                The
                following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form
                10-K: 

i.  
             
                Financial
                Statements - See Index on page 61. 

ii. 

Financial
                Statement Schedule - See Index on page 61. All other schedules for
                which
                provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the
                Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related
                instructions or are not applicable and, therefore, have been
                omitted. 

iii. 

Exhibits
                - the following documents are filed as exhibits to this Annual Report
                on
                Form 10-K: 

2(a) 

Plan
                and Agreement of Merger dated February 15, 2002, by and among the
                Registrant, ISSI Acquisition Corp. and Intelligent Systems Software,
                Inc.,
                Maha Sallam, Kevin Woods and W. Kip Speyer. [incorporated by reference
                to
                Annex A of the Company s proxy statement/prospectus dated May 24, 2002
                contained in the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-4, File No.
                333-86454] 

2(b)

Amended
                and Restated Plan and Agreement of Merger dated as of December 15,
                2003
                among the Registrant, Qualia Computing, Inc., Qualia Acquisition
                Corp.,
                Steven K. Rogers, Thomas E. Shoup and James Corbett.[Incorporated
                by
                reference to Exhibit 2(a) to the Registrant's Current Report on Form
                8-K
                for the event dated December 31,
                2003] 

3(a) 

Certificate
                of Incorporation of the Registrant filed with the Secretary of State
                of
                the State of Delaware on February 24, 1984 [incorporated by reference
                to
                Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-18
                (Commission File No. 2-94097 NY), filed on October 31,
                1984] 

3(b) 

Certificate
                of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, filed
                with
                the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 31, 1984
                [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(a) to the Registrant's
                Registration Statement on Form S-18 (Commission File No. 2-94097-NY),
                filed on October 31, 1984] 

55 

3(c) 

Certificate
                of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant filed
                with
                the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on August 22, 1984
                [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(b) to the Registrant's
                Registration Statement on Form S-18 (Commission File No. 2-94097-NY),
                filed on October 31, 1984]. 

3(d) 

Certificate
                of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant filed
                with
                the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on October 22, 1987
                [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(d) to the Registrant's Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988].

3(e) 

Certificate
                of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant filed
                with
                the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on September 28,
                1999
                [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(d) to the Registrant s Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                2001]. 

3(f) 

Certificate
                of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant filed
                with
                the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on June 28, 2002
                [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Registrant s Quarterly
                report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                2002]. 

10(a) 

Revolving
                Loan and Security Agreement, and Convertible Revolving Credit Promissory
                Note between Robert Howard and Registrant dated October 26, 1987
                (the
                "Loan Agreement") [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the
                Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                30,
                1987].  

10(b) 

Letter
                Agreement dated June 28, 2002, amending the Revolving Loan and Security
                Agreement, and Convertible Revolving Credit Promissory Note between
                Robert
                Howard and Registrant dated October 26, 1987 [incorporated by reference
                to
                Exhibit 10(b) to the Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the year
                ended
                December 31, 2002].  

10(c)  
             
                Form
                of Secured Demand Notes between the Registrant and Mr. Robert Howard.
                [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Registrant's Report
                on
                Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998].

10(d) 

Form
                of Security Agreements between the Registrant and Mr. Robert Howard
                [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Registrant s Report on
                Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998].

56 

10(h) 

1993
                Stock Option Plan [incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the
                Registrant s proxy statement on Schedule 14-A filed with the Securities
                and Exchange Commission on August 24,
                1999].* 

10(i) 

2001
                Stock Option Plan [incorporated by reference to Annex A of the
                Registrant s proxy statement on Schedule 14-A filed with the Securities
                and Exchange Commission on June 29,
                2001].* 

10(k) 

Addendum
                No. 16, extending the Revolving Loan and Security Agreement, and
                Convertible Revolving Credit Promissory Note between Robert Howard
                and
                Registrant dated October 26, 1987. 

10(n)

Form
                of Option Agreement under the Registrant s 2001 Stock Option Plan
                [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s quarterly
                report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                2004].* 

57 

10(o)

Form
                of Option Agreement under the Registrant s 2002 Stock Option Plan
                [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s quarterly
                report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                2004].* 

10(p)

Form
                of Option Agreement under the Registrant s 2004 Stock Incentive Plan
                [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s quarterly
                report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                2004].* 

10(q)  
             
                Form
                of warrant issued to investors in connection with the Registrant s
                December 15, 2004 private financing. [incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit
                10(q) to the Registrant s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
                31, 2004]. 

10(v)

Lease
                Agreement dated October 9, 2000 between the Registrant and Mills-Morgan
                Development, LTD, of Beavercreek,
                OH. 

10(w)

Lease
                Agreement dated October 9, 2000 between the Registrant and Mills-Morgan
                Development, LTD, of Beavercreek,
                OH. 

23  
             
                Consent
                of BDO Seidman, LLP. 

58 

*
      Denotes
      a management compensation plan or arrangement. 

**
      Portions of these documents were omitted and filed separately with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential
      treatment of the omitted portions. 

(b)  
             
                Exhibits
                - See (a) iii above. 

(c)  
             
                Financial
                Statement Schedule - See (a) ii
                above. 

59 

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
      by
      the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

ICAD,
              INC.  

Date:
              March 31, 2006  
              By:    
              /s/ W.
              Scott
              Parr  

W.
                Scott Parr 

President,
                Chief
                Executive Officer, Director 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
      been
      signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
      capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/  Robert
                  Howard 

Chairman
                  of the 

Robert
                  Howard 

Board,
                  Director 

March
                  31, 2006 

/s/  W.
                  Scott Parr 

President,
                  Chief Executive 

W.
                  Scott Parr 

Officer,
                  Director (Principal 

March
                  31, 2006 

Executive
                  Officer) 

/s/  Annette
                  Heroux 

Vice
                  President of Finance, 

Annette
                  Heroux 

Chief
                  Financial Officer 

(Principal
                  Accounting Officer) 

March
                  31, 2006 

/s/  James
                  Harlan 

Director 

March
                  31, 2006 

James
                  Harlan 

/s/  Maha
                  Sallam 

Director 

March
                  31, 2006 

Maha
                  Sallam  

/s/  Elliot
                  Sussman 

Director 

March
                  31, 2006 

Elliot
                  Sussman 

/s/  George
                  Farley 

Director 

March
                  31, 2006 

George
                  Farley 

/s/  Herschel
                  Sklaroff 

Director 

March
                  31, 2006 

Herschel
                  Skalroff 

/s/  Rachel
                  Brem 

Director 

March
                  31, 2006 

Rachel
                  Brem 

60 

INDEX
      TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE  

61 

REPORT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To
      the
      Board of Directors and Stockholders of iCAD, Inc., 

      Nashua,
      New Hampshire 

We
      have
      audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of iCAD, Inc. and
      subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
      consolidated statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for
      each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. We have also
      audited the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index.
      These
      financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
      management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial
      statements and schedule based on our audits.  

We
      conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
      statements and schedule are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
      examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
      in
      the financial statements and schedule. An audit also includes assessing the
      accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
      well
      as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements and schedule.
      We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As
      discussed in Note 10 (b) on April 18, 2005, the Company received a letter from
      a
      competitor, advising the Company of their position that the Company s Second
      Look  product lines allegedly infringed on certain patents, which are licensed
      to the competitor. These patents are continuations in part of the patents
      already licensed to the Company by the competitor under a September 2003
      Settlement Agreement that resolved certain patent infringement litigation
      between the Company and the competitor (the  Settlement Agreement ). Under the
      Settlement Agreement, the rights of the competitor to assert subsequent claims
      of infringement of this nature against the Company are limited, and require
      reasonably detailed notice, the opportunity for negotiation and binding
      arbitration as a required alternative to litigation. A three member arbitration
      panel was named and t  he
      Company's patent dispute with the competitor, including counterclaims by the
      Company that the competitor infringes on certain patents which are owned by
      the
      Company, proceeded to a hearing before the panel on October 18 and 19, 2005.
        Post-trial
      briefing was submitted on February 28, 2006 and a decision from the arbitrators
      is expected in April 2006.   While
      the
      Company remains confident that it does not infringe on any valid and enforceable
      competitor patent, and that the competitor has infringed one or more of the
      Company's patents, the outcome of the arbitration can not be assured, and a
      negative finding by the arbitrators could have a material and adverse effect
      on
      the Company s business.  
      See Note
      10 (b) for further information.  

In
      our
      opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly,
      in all material respects, the financial position of ICAD, Inc. and subsidiaries
      as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their
      cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005
      in
      conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
      of
      America.  

Also,
      in
      our opinion, the schedule listed in the accompanying index presents fairly,
      in all material respects, the information set forth therein. 

We
      also
      have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
      Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company s internal
      control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria
      established in    Internal
      Control - Integrated Framework   
      issued
      by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and
      our
      report dated March 31, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s
      assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
      reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s
      internal control over financial reporting.  

/s/
      BDO
      Seidman, LLP  

Boston,
      Massachusetts 

      March
      31,
      2006  

62 

iCAD,
                  INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

Consolidated
                  Balance Sheets  

63 

iCAD,
                  INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Consolidated
                  Statements of Operations  

64 

iCAD,
                  INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Consolidated
                  Statements of Stockholders' Equity

See
                  accompanying notes to consolidated financial
                  statements.  

65 

iCAD,
                  INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

Consolidated
                  Statements of Cash
                  Flows  

66 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements 

(1)   
             
                 Summary
                of Significant Accounting
                Policies  

(a)
      Nature of Operations and Use of Estimates  

iCAD,
      Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or  iCAD ) designs, develops,
      manufactures and markets computer aided detection (CAD) technology for
      mammography applications and medical film digitizers. The Company considers
      itself a single reportable business segment. The Company sells its products
      throughout the world through various distributors, resellers and systems
      integrators. See Note 9  
      for
      geographical and major customer information. 

The
      preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
      accounting principles in the United States of America requires management to
      make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
      liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
      of
      the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
      during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
      Many of the Company's estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of
      the
      financial statements relate to the Company's products, which are subject to
      rapid technological change. It is reasonably possible that changes may occur
      in
      the near term that would affect management's estimates with respect to
      inventory, equipment and intangible assets. 

(b)
      Principles of Consolidation  

The
      consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
      wholly owned subsidiaries that were acquired during 2003, Qualia Acquisition
      Corporation, CADx Systems, Inc. Any material inter-company transactions and
      balances have been eliminated in consolidation. 

(c)
      Cash Flow Information  

For
      purposes of reporting cash flows, the Company defines cash and cash equivalents
      as all bank transaction accounts, certificates of deposit, money market funds
      and deposits, and other money market instruments maturing in less than 90 days,
      which are unrestricted as to withdrawal.      

67 

iCAD,
        INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
        to
        Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(1)   
             
                 Summary
                of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued) 

(d)       Financial
      instruments  

The
      carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and equivalents,
      accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, loan payable to related
      parties, notes payable and other convertible debt approximated fair value as
      of
      December 31, 2005 and 2004. 

(e)
      Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

Accounts
      receivable are customer obligations due under normal trade terms. The Company
      performs continuing credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition
      and
      generally does not require collateral. 

Senior
      management reviews accounts receivable on a periodic basis to determine if
      any
      receivables will potentially be uncollectible. The Company includes any accounts
      receivable balances that are determined to be uncollectible, along with a
      general reserve, in its overall allowance for doubtful accounts. After all
      attempts to collect a receivable have failed, the receivable is written off
      against the allowance. Based on the information available to the Company, it
      believes the allowance for doubtful accounts as of December 31, 2005 is
      adequate. However, actual write-offs might exceed the recorded allowance.

(f)
      Inventory  

Inventory
      is valued at the lower of cost or market value, with cost determined by the
      first-in, first-out method. At December 31, inventory consisted of raw material
      and finished goods of approximately $1,245,000 and $1,272,000, respectively,
      for
      2005, and raw material and finished goods of approximately $194,000 and
      $820,000, respectively, for 2004.  

(g)
      Property and Equipment  

Property
      and equipment are stated at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method
      over the estimated useful lives of the various classes of assets (ranging from
      3
      to 5 years) or the remaining lease term, whichever is shorter for leasehold
      improvements. 

(h)
      Long Lived Assets   

Long-lived
      assets, such as intangible assets, other than goodwill, and property and
      equipment, are evaluated for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
      indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through
      the estimated undiscounted future cash flows from the use of these assets.
      When
      any such impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair
      value. 

68 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(1)   
             
                 Summary
                of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued) 

(h)
      Long Lived Assets    (continued) 

Intangible
      assets subject to amortization consist primarily of patents, technology
      intangibles, trade name and distribution agreements purchased in the acquisition
      of ISSI in June, 2002 and CADx in December, 2003 (See Note 2). These assets
      are
      amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 2 to
      10
      years.  

For
      the
      years ended December 31, 

Amortization
      expense related to intangible assets was approximately $1,052,000, $1,052,000
      and $530,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003,
      respectively. Estimated amortization of the Company s intangible assets for the
      next five fiscal years is as follows: 

69 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(1)   
             
                 Summary
                of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued) 

(h)
      Long Lived Assets    (continued) 

In
      the
      third quarter of 2003, the Company recorded a write-off of $1,443,628 for the
      remaining asset, net of accumulated amortization, attributable to its
      distribution agreement with Instrumentarium Imaging, Inc. ( Instrumentarium ),
      which the Company assumed as part of the ISSI acquisition. This write-off came
      after assessing the performance of Instrumentarium under the distribution
      agreement, and in light of the Company s implementation of alternative
      distribution channels. This charge is included in 2003 general and
      administrative expenses. 

(i)
      Goodwill  

In
      June
      2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 141,
       Business Combinations  and No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets .
      SFAS 141 requires companies to use the purchase method of accounting for all
      business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, and establishes specific
      criteria for the recognition of intangible assets separately from goodwill.
      SFAS
      142 addresses the accounting for acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
      Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are no longer amortized and
      are
      tested for impairment at least annually.  

Goodwill
      arose in connection with the ISSI acquisition in June 2002 and with CADx at
      December 31, 2003. See Note 2. 

(j)
      Revenue Recognition  

The
      Company recognizes revenue in accordance with Statement of Position ("SOP")
      97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP 98-9 "Modification of
      SOP
      97-2 with Respect to Certain Transactions", and Staff Accounting Bulletin 104,
      "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements" ("SAB 104").  In general the
      Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists,
      delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectibility
      is probable. 

The
        Company defers revenue for extended service contracts related to future periods
        and recognizes revenue on a straight-line basis in accordance with FASB
        Technical Bulletin No. 90-1, "Accounting for Separately Priced Extended Warranty
        and Product Maintenance Contracts."  The Company provides for estimated
        warranty costs on original product warranties at the time of sale. 

(k)
      Cost of Sales  

Cost
                of sales consists of the costs of products purchased for resale,
                acquired
                technology, any associated inbound and outbound freight and duty,
                any
                costs associated with manufacturing, warehousing, material movement
                and
                inspection, and depreciation and amortization of capitalized
                equipment. 

(l)
      Warranty Costs  

The
      Company's products are generally under warranty against defects in material
      and
      workmanship from a 90 day to 2 year period, depending on the product. The
      Company established a warranty reserve in the amount of $150,000 in 2005 and
      2004.  

Warranty
      provisions and claims for the years ended
      December 31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows: 

70 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(1)   
             
                 Summary
                of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued) 

(m)
      Engineering and Product Development Costs  

These
      costs relate to research and development efforts which are expensed as
      incurred.      

(n)
      Advertising Costs  

The
      Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expense for the
      years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $790,000, $620,000 and
      $250,000, respectively.  

(o)
      Net Loss Per Common Share  

The
      Company follows SFAS No. 128,  Earnings per Share , which requires the
      presentation of both basic and diluted earning per share on the face of the
      Statements of Operations. Conversion of the subordinated debentures and other
      convertible debt and preferred stock and assumed exercise of options and
      warrants are not included in the calculation of diluted loss per share since
      the
      effect would be antidilutive. Accordingly, basic and diluted net loss per share
      do not differ for any period presented. The following table summarizes the
      common stock equivalent of securities that were outstanding as of December
      31,
      2005, 2004 and 2003, but not included in the calculation of diluted net loss
      per
      share because such shares are antidilutive: 

(p)
      Income Taxes  

The
                Company follows the liability method under SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for
                Income Taxes . The primary objectives of accounting for taxes under SFAS
                109 are to (a) recognize the amount of tax payable for the current
                year
                and (b) recognize the amount of deferred tax liability or asset for
                the
                future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in the
                Company's financial statements or tax
                returns. 

71 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(1)  

Summary
                of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued) 

(q)
      Stock-Based Compensation     

In
      December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued
      Statement No. 123R,  Share-Based Payment  ( FAS 123R ). FAS 123R is a
      revision of FASB Statement No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
      Compensation  ( FAS 123 ). The Company is required to adopt the provisions of
      FAS123R as of the beginning of its first fiscal quarter of 2006. This statement
      establishes standards for and requires the recognition of the cost of
      employment-related services settled in share-based payment.   The
      Company has not yet determined the method of adoption or the effect of adopting
      SFAS123R, and it has not determined whether the adoption will result in amounts
      that are similar to the current pro-forma disclosures under SFAS123. The Company
      expects that the adoption of SFAS123R will have a material impact on the
      Company's consolidated results of operations and earnings per
      share. 

Currently
      and until the adoption of FAS 123R, the Company follows the provisions of FAS
      123. The provisions of FAS 123 allow companies to either expense the estimated
      fair value of its employee stock options or to continue to follow the intrinsic
      value method set forth in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  ( APB 25 ), but disclose the pro
      forma effects on net income (loss) had the fair value of its employee stock
      options been expensed.  

Under
      APB
      Opinion No. 25, when the number of shares and exercise price of the Company s
      employee stock options are fixed and the exercise price equals the market price
      of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation cost is recognized
      provided vesting is based solely on the passage of time. 

In
      December   2005,
      the
      Company s Board of Directors approved accelerating the vesting of unvested,
 out-of-the-money  stock options     to
      purchase approximately 836,000 shares of the Company s common stock awarded to
      employees, officers and directors under its stock option plans. The accelerated
      options have exercise prices ranging from $1.64 to $5.28 and a weighted average
      exercise price of $3.93. The acceleration was unconditional to the employees,
      officers and directors and was applied to all outstanding, unvested options
      priced above the closing price of iCAD s common stock on December 30, 2005.
      Approximately $1,362,000 of the 2005 pro forma expense listed below relates
      to
      options included in this acceleration group. 

The
      primary purpose of the accelerated vesting is to enable the Company to avoid
      recognizing future compensation expense associated with the accelerated stock
      options upon the planned adoption of FAS 123R in 2006. 

Had
      compensation cost for the Company s option plans been determined using the fair
      value method at the grant dates, the effect on the Company s net loss and loss
      per share for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 would have been
      as follows: 

72 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(1)  

Summary
                of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued) 

(q)
      Stock-Based Compensation     

In
      computing this pro-forma amount, the Company has used the Black-Scholes pricing
      model with the following weighted-average assumptions for grants in 2005: no
      dividends paid on common shares; expected volatility of 78.8%; risk-free
      interest rates of 3.69%, 3.91%, 4.03%, 4.18%, and 4.39%; and expected lives
      of 5
      years. The weighted-average assumptions used for grants in 2004 were: no
      dividends paid on common shares; expected volatility of 78.9%; risk-free
      interest rates of 2.89%, 3.03%, 3.10%, 3.25%, 3.26% and 3.72%; and expected
      lives of 3 to 4 years.     The
      weighted-average assumptions used for grants in 2003 were: no dividends paid
      on
      common shares; expected volatility of 80.8%; risk-free interest rates of 2.34%,
      2.60%, 2.63%, 2.91%, 3.06% and 3.34%; and expected lives of 4 and 5
      years. 

The
      weighted average grant-date fair value per share of options granted during
      the
      year was $1.65 for 2005, $2.59 for 2004 and $1.25 for 2003.     

(r)
      Recently Issued Accounting Standards   

In
      December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No.
      123R, Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123R), which replaces SFAS 123, Accounting
      for
      Stock-Based Compensation, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for
      Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to
      employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in
      the
      financial statements based on their fair values beginning with the first interim
      or annual period after June 15, 2005. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange
      Commission (the  SEC ) postponed the effective date of SFAS 123R until the
      issuers first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. Under the current
      rules, the Company will be required to adopt SFAS 123R in the first quarter
      of
      fiscal 2006. 

73 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(1)   
             
                 Summary
                of Significant Accounting Policies    (continued) 

(r)
      Recently Issued Accounting Standards    (continued) 

Under
      SFAS 123R, pro forma disclosures previously permitted will no longer be an
      alternative to financial statement recognition. The Company must determine
      the
      appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share-based payments to
      employees, the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition
      method to be used at the date of adoption. The transition methods include
      modified prospective and retrospective adoption options. Additionally, SFAS
      123R
      clarifies the timing for recognizing compensation expense for awards subject
      to
      acceleration of vesting on retirement and also specifies the treatment of excess
      tax benefits associated with stock compensation.  

In
      March
      2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ( SAB 107 ) regarding the
      SEC s interpretation of SFAS 123R and the valuation of share-based payments for
      public companies. The Company is evaluating the requirements of SFAS 123R and
      SAB 107 and expects that the adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material impact
      on the Company's consolidated results of operations and earnings per share.
      The
      Company has not yet determined the method of adoption or the effect of adopting
      SFAS123R, and it has not determined whether the adoption will result in amounts
      that are similar to the current pro-forma disclosures under
      SFAS123. 

In
      May
      2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
      ( SFAS 154 ) which replaces APB Opinions No. 20 Accounting Changes and SFAS No.
      3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. An Amendment
      of
      APB Opinion No. 28. SFAS 154 provides guidance on the accounting for and
      reporting of accounting changes and error corrections. It establishes
      retrospective application, or the latest practicable date, as the required
      method for reporting a change in accounting principle and the reporting of
      a
      correction of an error. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and
      corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005,
      and is required to be adopted by the Company in the first quarter of fiscal
      2006. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of SFAS
      154 will have on its consolidated results of operations and financial condition,
      but does not expect it will have a material impact. 

74 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(2)   
             
                 Acquisitions  

Acquisition
      of CADx   

On
      December 31, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of Qualia Computing,
      Inc. ( Qualia ). This merger brings together two of the three companies approved
      by the FDA to market computer aided detection of breast cancer solutions in
      the
      United States. To complete the merger, iCAD issued a total of 4,300,000 shares
      of its common stock, representing approximately 13% of the outstanding shares
      of
      iCAD common stock after the merger. The value of the Company s Common Stock
      issued was based upon a per share value of $5.70, equal to the closing price
      on
      November 28, 2003, the day the acquisition was announced. Additionally, iCAD
      paid $1,550,000 in cash and executed a 36-month secured promissory note in
      the
      amount of $4,500,000 to purchase Qualia shares that were owned by two
      institutional investors. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase on
      December 31, 2003, and accordingly, the operations of CADx are included in
      the
      consolidated financial statements commencing on January 1, 2004. The purchase
      price has been allocated to net assets acquired based upon an independent
      appraisal of their fair values.  

Following
      is a summary of the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
      as of the date of acquisition: 

The
      unaudited proforma operating results for the Company, assuming the acquisition
      of CADx occurred as of January 1, 2003, are as follows: 

75 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(3)   
             
                 Restructuring
                Charges  

Closure
      of Tampa Office  

During
      the first quarter of 2004, the Company took action following its merger with
      CADx to reduce its workforce and close its office and software development
      group
      located in Tampa, Florida. In connection with these measures, the Company
      incurred approximately $280,000 in non-recurring engineering severance benefits
      and office closure expenses with approximately $180,000 due under the
      non-cancelable operating lease for the facility. The total charge is included
      in
      engineering and product development costs in the accompanying 2004 consolidated
      statement of operations. As of December 31, 2005 approximately $174,000 of
      severance and closing costs were paid and charged against the liability and
      approximately $81,000 will be recovered through a sublease arrangement
      negotiated in June 2005. Accordingly, the Company reduced the accrual by
      approximately $81,000 in 2005, which was recorded as a reduction of rent
      expense. The remaining facility closing cost accrued as of December 31, 2005
      was
      approximately $25,000 and expected payments net of sublease payments of $16,000,
      and $9,000 are due in 2006, and 2007, respectively. 

(4)   
             
                 Related
                Party Transactions  

Convertible
      Loan Payable to Principal Stockholder     

The
      Company has a Revolving Loan and Security Agreement (the "Loan Agreement")
      with
      Mr. Robert Howard, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, under
      which Mr. Howard has agreed to advance funds, or to provide guarantees of
      advances made by third parties in an amount up to $5,000,000. The Loan Agreement
      expires March 31, 2007, subject to extension by the parties. Outstanding
      advances are collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company
      and bear interest at prime interest rate plus 1% (8.25% at December 31, 2005).
      Mr. Howard is entitled to convert outstanding advances made by him under the
      Loan Agreement into shares of the Company's common stock at any time based
      on
      the outstanding closing market price of the Company's common stock at the lesser
      of the market price at the time each advance is made or at the time of
      conversion.  

In
      December 2004 the Company repaid Mr. Howard $3,330,000 pursuant to the Loan
      Agreement. During the fourth quarter of 2005, based on a previous agreement
      from
      Mr. Howard to reduce the interest rate pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the
      Company applied an interest overpayment totaling $41,094 to the principal
      balance of the loan, which was recorded as a reduction of interest expense
      in
      2005. As of December 31, 2005, $258,906 was owed by the Company to Mr. Howard
      and the Company had $4,741,094 available for future borrowings under the Loan
      Agreement.  

76 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(5)   
             
                 Accrued
                Expenses  

Accrued
      expenses consist of the following at December 31, 2005 and 2004: 

(6)   
             
                 Notes
                Payable   

To
      complete the acquisition of CADx (see Note 2), the Company executed a secured
      promissory note in the amount of $4,500,000 to purchase Qualia s shares, issued
      in favor of CADx Canada which is payable in quarterly installments over a 3
      year
      period commencing April 2004 and bears interest at the rate per annum equal
      to
      the greater of (i) 6.25% or (iii) the prime rate plus 1%, (8.25% at December
      31,
      2005). The note is secured by the assets of iCAD. Scheduled maturity of the
      note
      payable at December 31, 2005 is as follows: 

(7)   
             
                 Stockholders 
                Equity      

(a)
      Preferred Stock   

7%
      Series A Convertible Preferred Stock   .
      On
      December 22, 1999 the Company, pursuant to the authority of the Company's Board
      of Directors, adopted a resolution creating a series of preferred stock
      designated as 7.0% Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the  Series A Preferred
      Stock ). The number of shares initially constituting the Series A Preferred
      Stock was 10,000, par value $.01 per share, which may be decreased (but not
      increased) by the Board of Directors without a vote of stockholders, provided,
      however, that such number may not be decreased below the number of then
      outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The holders of the shares of
      Series A Preferred Stock vote  

77 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(7)   
             
                 Stockholders 
                Equity    (continued)    

(a)
      Preferred Stock    (continued) 

together
      with the Common Stock as a single class on all actions to be voted on by the
      stockholders of the Company. Each share of Series A Preferred Stock entitle
      the
      holder thereof to such number of votes per share on each such action as shall
      equal the number of whole shares of Common Stock into which each share of Series
      A Preferred Stock is then convertible. The holders are entitled to notice of
      any
      stockholder s meeting in accordance with the By-Laws of the Company. Each share
      of Series A Preferred Stock is convertible into that number of shares of Common
      Stock determined by dividing the aggregate liquidation preference of the number
      of shares of Series A Preferred Stock being converted by $1.00 (the  Conversion
      Rate ). The Conversion Rate is subject to appropriate adjustment by stock split,
      dividend or similar division of the Common Stock or reverse split or similar
      combinations of the Common Stock prior to conversion. The Company may at any
      time after the date of issuance, at the option of the Board of Directors, redeem
      in whole or in part the Series A Preferred Stock by paying cash equal to $100
      per share together with any accrued and unpaid dividends (the  Redemption
      Price ). The Redemption Price is subject to appropriate adjustment by the Board
      of Directors of similar division of shares of Series A Preferred Stock or
      reverse split or similar combination of the Series A Preferred Stock. In the
      event the Company liquidates, dissolves or winds up, no distribution will made
      to the holders of shares of Common Stock unless, prior thereto the holders
      of
      shares of Series A Preferred Stock have received $100 per share (as adjusted
      for
      any stock dividends, combinations or splits) plus all declared or accumulated
      but unpaid dividends. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in
      preference to the holders of shares of Common Stock, are entitled to receive
      cumulative dividends of $7.00 per annum per share, payable annually, subject
      to
      appropriate adjustment by the Board of Directors of the Company in the event
      of
      any stock split, dividend or similar division of shares of Series A Preferred.
      Dividends are payable annually, in arrears, on the last day of December in
      each
      year.  

In
      March
      2005, 1,000 shares of the Company s 7% Series A Preferred Stock were converted
      by unrelated parties into 100,000 shares of the Company s Common Stock. As of
      December 31, 2005 and 2004 the Company had 5,150 and 6,150 shares, respectively,
      of its 7% Series A Preferred Stock issued and outstanding, with an aggregate
      liquidation value of $515,000 and $615,000, respectively. The Company has
      reserved 515,000 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the
      Convertible Series A Preferred Stock.  

7%
      Series B Convertible Preferred Stock   .
      On
      October 19, 2000 the Company, pursuant to the authority of the Company's Board
      of Directors, adopted a resolution creating a series of preferred stock
      designated as 7.0% Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (the  Series B Preferred
      Stock ). The number of shares initially constituting the Series B Preferred
      Stock was 2,000, par value $.01 per share, which may be decreased (but not

78 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(7)   
             
                 Stockholders 
                Equity    (continued) 

(a)
      Preferred Stock    (continued) 

increased)
      by the Board of Directors without a vote of stockholders, provided, however,
      that such number may not be decreased below the number of then outstanding
      shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The holders of the shares of Series B
      Preferred Stock have no voting rights other than is required by law. Each share
      of Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into that number of shares of Common
      Stock determined by dividing the aggregate liquidation preference of the number
      of shares of Series B Preferred Stock being converted by $2.00 (the  Conversion
      Rate ). The Conversion Rate is subject to appropriate adjustment by stock split,
      dividend or similar division of the Common Stock or reverse split or similar
      combinations of the Common Stock prior to conversion. The Company may at any
      time after the date of issuance, at the option of the Board of Directors, redeem
      in whole or in part the Series B Preferred Stock by paying cash equal to
  $1,000
      per share together with any accrued and unpaid dividends (the  Redemption
      Price ). The Redemption Price is subject to appropriate adjustment by the Board
      of Directors of similar division of shares of Series B Preferred Stock or
      reverse split or similar combination of the Series B Preferred Stock. In the
      event the Company liquidates, dissolves or winds up, no distribution will be
      made to the holders of shares of Common Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders
      of shares of Series B Preferred Stock   have
      received $1,000 per share (as adjusted for any stock dividends, combinations
      or
      splits) plus all declared or accumulated but unpaid dividends. The holders
      of
      shares of Series B Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of shares
      of
      Common Stock, are entitled to receive cumulative dividends of $70.00 per annum
      per share, payable annually, subject to appropriate adjustment by the Board
      of
      Directors of the Company in the event   of
      any
      stock split, dividend or similar division of shares of Series B Preferred.
      Dividends are payable annually, in arrears, on the last day of December in
      each
      year.  

In
      October 2000 the Company sold, in private transactions, a total of 1,400 shares
      of its 7% Series B Preferred Stock at $1,000 per share, consisting of 1,350
      shares to unrelated parties, and 50 shares to Mr. W. Scott Parr, CEO of the
      Company,  for gross proceeds of $1,400,000. The 1,400 shares of 7% Series B
      Preferred Stock were issued with a conversion price below the Company s Common
      Stock quoted value and as a result accreted dividends of $996,283 were recorded
      and included in the net loss per share calculation for the year ended December
      31, 2000. In 2003, 115 shares of the Company s Series B Preferred Stock were
      converted by unrelated parties into 57,500 shares of the Company s Common Stock.
  In
      March
      2005, 61 shares of the Company s Series B Preferred Stock were converted by
      unrelated parties into 30,500 shares of the Company s Common Stock. As of
      December 31, 2005 and 2004 the Company s had 1,224 and 1,285 shares,
      respectively, of its 7% Series B Preferred Stock issued and outstanding, with
      an
      aggregate liquidation value of $1,224,000 and $1,285,000, respectively. The
      Company has reserved 612,000 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion
      of
      the Convertible Series B Preferred Stock.  

79 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(7)   
             
                 Stockholders 
                Equity    (continued) 

(b)
      Stock Options  

The
      Company has five stock option plans, which are described as follows:

The
      2001 Stock Option Plan, ("The 2001 Plan").  

The
      2001
      Plan was adopted in August 2001, at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders at which
      the stockholders voted to replace the 1993 plan, which had no further stock

available
      for grant. The 2001 Plan provides for the granting of non-qualifying and
      incentive stock options to employees and other persons to purchase up to an
      aggregate of 1,200,000 shares of the Company's common stock. The purchase price
      of each share for which an option is granted shall be at the discretion of
      the
      Board of Directors or the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors provided
      that the purchase price of each share for which an incentive option is granted
      shall not be less than the fair market value of the Company's common stock
      on
      the date of grant, except for options granted to 10% holders for whom the
      exercise price shall not be less than 110% of the market price. Incentive
      options granted under the 2001 Plan vest 100% over periods extending from six
      months to five years from the date of grant and expire ten years after the
      date
      of grant, except for 10% holders whose options shall expire five years after
      the
      date of grant. Non-qualifying options granted under the 2001 Plan are generally
      exercisable over a ten year period, vesting 1/3 each on the first, second,
      and
      third anniversaries of the date of grant. 

The
      2002 Stock Option Plan, ("The 2002 Plan").  

The
      2002
      Plan was adopted in June 2002, at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The 2002
      Plan provides for the granting of non-qualifying and incentive stock options
      to
      employees and other persons to purchase up to an aggregate of 500,000 shares
      of
      the Company's common stock. The purchase price of each share for which an option
      is granted shall be at the discretion of the Board of Directors or the Committee
      appointed by the Board of Directors provided that the purchase price of each
      share for which an incentive option is granted shall not be less than the fair
      market value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant, except for
      options granted to 10% holders for whom the exercise price shall not be less
      than 110% of the market price. Incentive options granted under the 2002 Plan
      vest 100% over periods extending from six months to five years from the date
      of
      grant and expire ten years after the date of grant, except for 10% holders
      whose
      options shall expire five years after the date of grant. Non-qualifying options
      granted under the 2001 Plan are generally exercisable over a ten year period,
      vesting 1/3 each on the first, second, and third anniversaries of the date
      of
      grant. 

80 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(7)   
             
                 Stockholders 
                Equity    (continued) 

(b)
      Stock Options    (continued) 

Intelligent
      Systems Software 2001 Stock Option Plan.  

In
      connection with iCAD s acquisition of ISSI in June 2002, iCAD assumed options
      granted under ISSI s 2001 Stock Option Plan to purchase 400,000 shares of ISSI s
      common stock, which options were converted upon such acquisition into the right
      to purchase 500,000 shares of iCAD s common stock in accordance with the terms
      and conditions set forth in such 2001 Stock Option Plan.  

The
      2004 Stock Incentive Plan, ("The 2004 Plan").  

The
      2004
      Plan was adopted in June 2004, at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The 2004
      Plan provides for the granting of non-qualifying and incentive stock options
      to
      employees and other persons to purchase up to an aggregate of 1,000,000 shares
      of the Company's common stock. The purchase price of each share for which an
      option is granted shall be at the discretion of the Board of Directors or the
      Committee appointed by the Board of Directors provided that the purchase price
      of each share for which an option is granted shall not be less than the fair
      market value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant, except for
      incentive options granted to 10% holders for whom the exercise price shall
      not
      be less than 110% of the market price. Incentive options granted under the
      2004
      Plan generally vest 100% over periods extending from the date of grant to five
      years from the date of grant and expire not later than ten years after the
      date
      of grant, except for 10% holders whose options shall expire five years after
      the
      date of grant. Non-qualifying options granted under the 2001 Plan are generally
      exercisable over a ten year period, vesting 1/3 each on the first, second,
      and
      third anniversaries of the date of grant. 

The
      2005 Stock Incentive Plan, ("The 2005 Plan").  

The
      2005
      Plan was adopted in June 2005, at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The 2005
      Plan provides for the granting of non-qualifying and incentive stock options
      to
      employees and other persons to purchase up to an aggregate of 600,000 shares
      of
      the Company's common stock of which 598,112 shares are eligible for future
      grants. The purchase price of each share for which an option is granted shall
      be
      at the discretion of the Board of Directors or the Committee appointed by the
      Board of Directors provided that the purchase price of each share for which
      an
      option is granted shall not be less than the fair market value of the Company's
      common stock on the date of grant, except for incentive options granted to
      10%
      holders for whom the exercise price shall not be less than 110% of the market
      price. Incentive options granted under the 2005 Plan generally  

81 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(7)   
             
                 Stockholders 
                Equity    (continued) 

(b)
      Stock Options    (continued) 

vest
      100%
      over periods extending from the date of grant to five years from the date of
      grant and expire not later than ten years after the date of grant, except for
      10% holders whose options shall expire five years after the date of grant.
      Non-qualifying options granted under the 2001 Plan are generally exercisable
      over a ten year period, vesting 1/3 each on the first, second, and third
      anniversaries of the date of grant. 

A
      summary
      of stock option activity is as follows: 

Available
      for future grants 

The
      weighted-average remaining contractual life of stock options outstanding for
      all
      plans at December 31, 2005 was 7.2 years. 

82 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(7)   
             
                 Stockholders 
                Equity    (continued) 

(b)
      Stock Options    (continued) 

The
      following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
      December 31, 2005: 

In
      December 2005, the Company s Board of Directors approved accelerating the
      vesting of unvested,  out-of-the-money  stock options     to
      purchase approximately 836,000 shares of the Company s common stock awarded to
      employees, officers and directors under its stock option plans. The accelerated
      options have exercise prices ranging from $1.64 to $5.28 and a weighted average
      exercise price of $3.93. The acceleration was unconditional to the employees,
      officers and directors and was applied to all outstanding, unvested options
      priced above the closing price of the Company s common stock on December 30,
      2005. 

The
      primary purpose of the accelerated vesting is to enable the Company to avoid
      recognizing future compensation expense associated with the accelerated stock
      options upon the planned adoption of FAS 123R in 2006. 

(c)
      Private Placement  

On
      December 24, 2004, the Company sold 1,872,222 shares of its common stock for
      $4.50 per share in a private placement to institutional investors. The net
      proceeds to the Company for the 1,872,222 shares sold were approximately
      $8,325,000. In connection with these transactions the Company issued warrants
      to
      purchase 936,111 shares of the Company s common stock. The warrants are
      exercisable for a period of five years from the closing of the offering at
      an
      exercise price of $5.50 per share.  

83 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(7)   
             
                 Stockholders 
                Equity    (continued) 

(c)
      Private Placement    (continued) 

In
      February 2004 a total of 90,000 shares of the Company s common stock were issued
      in connection with the additional investment rights which were issued in 2003
      (see below). The remaining shares expired unexercised. The net proceeds to
      the
      Company for the 90,000 shares sold were approximately $418,000. Ladenburg
      Thalmann   Co. Inc. served as placement agent for these transactions for
      which it received compensation in the amount of approximately $404,000 and
      a
      five year warrant to purchase 67,200 shares of the Company s Common Stock at
      $5.00 per share.  

On
      November 24, 2003, the Company sold 1,260,000 shares of its common stock for
      $5.00 per share in a private placement to institutional investors. The Company
      also issued to such investors  additional investment rights to purchase up to an
      additional 315,000 shares of its common stock at $5.00 per share. The net
      proceeds to the Company for the 1,260,000 shares sold were approximately
      $5,919,000.  

(d)       Stock
      Subscription Warrants  

In
      December 2004, in connection with a private placement transaction the Company
      issued to the investors in the private placement common stock purchase warrant
      (the  2004 Warrant ) under a Subscription Agreement. The 2004 Warrant entitles
      the holders to purchase from the Company up to an aggregate of 936,111 shares
      of
      the Company s common stock at $5.50 per share. The 2004 Warrants are exercisable
      for a period of five years from the closing of the offering and expire on
      December 15, 2009. 

On
      November 24, 2003 the Company issued a common stock purchase warrant (the  2003
      Warrant ) to Ladenburg Thalmann   Co., Inc. (the  Agent ), that served as a
      placement agent for the private placement transaction. The warrants were issued
      for placement services, for which the Agent received a five-year warrant. The
      2003 Warrant entitles the Agent to purchase from the Company up to 67,200 shares
      of the Company s common stock at $5.00 per share. The Agent may exercise the
      Warrant at any time or from time to time on or prior to November 24, 2008.
      The
      Company has reserved 1,003,311 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise
      of
      the warrants. 

At
      December 31, 2005 there are warrants to purchase 1,003,311 of the Company s
      common stock that are exercisable at the following prices: 

No
      warrants were issued or exercised in 2005. 

84 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(8)   
             
                 Income
                Taxes  

As
      a
      result of the 2005, 2004 and 2003 losses, no income tax expense was incurred
      for
      these years. 

Deferred
      income taxes reflect the impact of "temporary differences" between the amount
      of
      assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and such amounts as
      measured by tax laws and regulations. The Company has fully reserved the
      deferred tax asset as there is no guarantee that the asset will be utilized.
      Deferred tax liabilities (assets) are comprised of the following at December
      31: 

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, the Company has net operating loss carryforwards totaling
      approximately $40,000,000 expiring between 2006 and 2025. The amount of the
      net
      operating loss carryforwards, which may be utilized in any future period, may
      be
      subject to certain limitations based upon changes in the ownership of the
      Company s common stock.  

In
      addition the Company has available tax credit carryforwards (adjusted to reflect
      provisions of the Tax Reform Act of 1986) of approximately $2,632,000, which
      are
      available to offset future taxable income and income tax liabilities, when
      earned or incurred. These amounts expire in various years through
      2025. 

(9)       Segment
      Reporting, Geographical Information and Major Customers  

(a)
      Segment Reporting  

The
      Company follows SFAS No. 131  Disclosures About Segments of a Business
      Enterprise and Related Information , which establishes standards for reporting
      information about operating segments. Operating segments are defined as
      components of  

85 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(9)   
             
                 Segment
                Reporting, Geographical Information and Major Customers
                   (continued) 

(a)
      Segment Reporting    (continued) 

a
      company
      about which the chief operating decision maker evaluates regularly in deciding
      how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company s chief
      operating decision maker is the Chief Executive Officer. The Company operated
      in
      one segment for all years presented.  

(b)
      Geographic Information  

The
      Company's sales are made to U.S. distributors and dealers, and to foreign
      distributors of computer and related products. Total export sales were
      approximately $1,747,000 or 9% of total sales in 2005, $1,331,000 or 6% of
      total
      sales in 2004 and $289,000 or 4% of total sales in 2003.  

The
      Company s principal concentration of export sales was in Europe, which accounted
      for 55% of the Company s export sales in 2005, 78% in 2004 and 23% in 2003. Asia
      accounted for 26% of export sales in 2005 having had no sales in 2004 and 2003.
      Export sales to Australia decreased to 6% of the Company s export sales in 2005,
      compared to 11% in 2004 and 35% in 2003. The balance of the export sales in
      2005
      was into Bermuda, Jordan, Guam and Canada. 

As
      of
      December 31, 2005 and 2004 the Company had outstanding receivables of $303,339
      and $163,151, respectively, from distributors of its products who are located
      outside of the United States. 

(c)
      Major Customers  

During
      the year ended December 31, 2005 the Company had sales of $3,725,065
      and  
      $2,913,493, or 19% and 15% of sales, to SourceOne Healthcare and General
      Electric Medical Systems, Inc., respectively.   These
      were the Company s two major customers in 2005 with accounts receivable balances
      of $  139,816
      and $430,360  ,
      respectively, due from these customers at December 31, 2005. For the year ended
      December 31, 2004 the Company had sales of $6,871,412 and $4,983,683, or 29%
      and
      21% of sales, to SourceOne Healthcare and General Electric Medical Systems,
      Inc., respectively. These were the Company s two major customers in 2004 with
      accounts receivable balances of $1,849,791 and $12,090, respectively, due from
      these customers at December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2003
      the
      Company had sales of $2,921,535 or 45% of sales, to Instrumentarium Imaging,
      Inc.   

86 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(9)   
             
                 Segment
                Reporting, Geographical Information and Major Customers
                   (continued) 

(d)
      Product Information   

The
      Company s revenues by product line are as follows: 

(10)   
             
                 Commitments
                and Contingencies  

(a)
      Lease Obligations  

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, the Company had three lease obligations related to its
      facilities. The Company s principal executive office is located in Nashua, New
      Hampshire. The facility consists of manufacturing, research and development
      and
      office space and is leased by the Company pursuant to a lease which expires
      December 31, 2006 at an annual rent of approximately $61,000. Additionally,
      the
      Company is required to pay utilities and provide insurance. 

The
      Company leased a facility for its software research and development group in
      Tampa, Florida. The facility consisted of research and development and office
      space and is leased by the Company pursuant to a lease, which expires July
      31,
      2007 at an annual rent of approximately $53,000. Additionally, the Company
      is
      required to pay utilities and provide insurance. During the first quarter of
      2004, the Company took action following its merger with CADx to reduce its
      workforce and close its office and software development group located in Tampa,
      Florida. In connection with the close of its Tampa facility, in fiscal 2004
      the
      Company accrued approximately $180,000 of expense due under the non-cancelable
      operating lease for the facility as part of a restructuring charge. In 2005,
      the
      Company negotiated a sublease agreement. Accordingly, the Company reduced the
      accrual by approximately $81,000 in 2005, which was recorded as a reduction
      of
      rent expense. 

In
      addition, as a result of its acquisition of CADx on December 31, 2003, the
      Company leases a facility for its software research and development group
      located in Beavercreek, Ohio. The facility consists of research and development
      and office space and is leased by the Company pursuant to a lease which expires
      December 2010 at a straight-line rate of approximately $445,000 per year.
      Additionally, the Company is required to pay utilities, common area maintenance,
      cleaning, security and provide insurance. The lease amount increases annually
      throughout the life of the lease. The lease may be renewed for two

87 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(10)   
             
                 Commitments
                and Contingencies    (continued) 

(a)
      Lease Obligations    (continued) 

additional
      terms of five years each. In November 2005, the Company subleased approximately
      6,000 square feet of office space at a rate of approximately $73,500 per year
      through December 2010. 

Rental
      expense for all leases for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
      was
      $528,681, $781,855 and $125,797, respectively.  

Future
      minimum rental payments due under these agreements and sublease agreements
      as of
      December 31, 2005 are approximately as follows: 

(b)
      Litigation  

In
      2003
      the Company was dismissed from a complaint filed against the Company in the
      United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, entitled
   The
      Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Electronics for Imaging, Inc. v.
      Abacus Software Inc. et al.   
      Case No.
      501CV344. The Company had no liability in this matter and as a result, general
      and administrative expenses incurred during the first quarter of 2003 were
      reduced by the reversal of the accrued settlement cost in the amount of
      $383,000.  

On
      June
      3, 2002, ISSI was sued in United States District Court for the District of
      Delaware by R2 Technology, Inc. ( R2 ), and Shih-Ping Wang. The lawsuit alleged
      that ISSI s MammoReader device infringes certain patents owned by the plaintiff.
      On July 11, 2002, subsequent to the acquisition of ISSI by the Company, the
      plaintiffs amended their complaint to add the Company and its subsidiary ISSI
      Acquisition Corp. as additional parties. In July 2003, the Company filed suit
      in
      the United States District Court for the District of New Hampshire against
      R2
      for infringement of certain patents licensed by the Company. 

On
      September 8, 2003, the Company announced the settlement of all patent
      infringement litigation with R2. Under the terms of the settlement, both actions
      were dismissed with prejudice and the Company was granted a non-exclusive
      license to the patents named in  

88 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(10)   
             
                 Commitments
                and Contingencies    (continued) 

(b)
      Litigation    (continued) 

the
      suit
      filed by R2. In connection with the settlement of the suit, the Company agreed
      to pay R2 an aggregate of $1,250,000, of which $1,000,000 was paid in September
      2003, with $250,000 deferred and payable in equal installments on a quarterly
      basis through December, 2005. In addition, the Company issued to R2 250,954
      shares of the Company s Common Stock valued at $750,000 and has filed a
      registration statement intended to cover the resale of the shares by R2. The
      Company also agreed to certain continuing royalties, which are based on the
      category and configuration of products sold by the Company. Further, the Company
      granted R2 a partial credit against potential future purchases by R2 of the
      Company s digitizers worth up to $2,500,000 over five years to encourage R2 to
      purchase film digitizers manufactured by the Company. This partial credit is
      not
      accounted for in the Company s financial statements as it was meant to provide a
      significant purchasing advantage to R2, while maintaining a reasonable profit
      margin and creating additional economies of scale for the Company. In November
      2003, R2 agreed to accept an additional 75,000 shares of the Company s Common
      Stock valued at $466,200, in satisfaction of any royalties it otherwise would
      have been entitled to receive under the settlement agreement. The value of
      the
      Company s Common Stock issued was based upon a per share value of $6.216, equal
      to the closing price on November 18, 2003, the date of the agreement. These
      charges are included in general and administrative expenses. 

On
      April
      18, 2005, the Company received a letter from R2, advising the Company of R2 s
      position that the Company s Second Look  product lines allegedly infringed on US
      Patents 6,266,435, 6,477,262 and 6,574,357, which are licensed to R2. These
      patents are continuations in part of the patents already licensed to the Company
      by R2 under a September 2003 Settlement Agreement that resolved certain patent
      infringement litigation between the Company and R2 (the  Settlement Agreement ).
      Under the Settlement Agreement, the rights of R2 to assert subsequent claims
      of
      infringement of this nature against the Company are limited, and require
      reasonably detailed notice, the opportunity for negotiation and binding
      arbitration as a required alternative to litigation. A three member arbitration
      panel was named and t  he
      Company's patent dispute with R2 , including counterclaims by the Company that
      R2 infringes on US Patents 6,115,488, 6,556,699 and 6,650,766, which are owned
      by the Company, proceeded to a hearing before the panel on October 18 and 19,
      2005.   Post-trial
      briefing was submitted on February 28, 2006 and a decision from the arbitrators
      is expected in April 2006.   While
      the
      Company remains confident that it does not infringe on any valid and enforceable
      R2 patent, and that R2 has infringed one or more of the Company's patents,
      the
      outcome of the arbitration can not be assured, and a negative finding by the
      arbitrators could have a material and adverse effect on the Company s
      business.    

89 

iCAD,
      INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Notes
      to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 

(11)   
                 
                     Quarterly
                    Financial Data    (unaudited) 

The
      2004
      totals above are reflective of the Company s merger with and acquisition of CADx
      on December 31, 2003. The acquisition expanded the Company s distribution
      channels, which contributed to immediate growth in sales, increased gross margin
      with the addition of sales of higher margin products for digital mammography
      and
      expanded the Company s new product development group. During the first quarter
      of 2004 the Company reduced its workforce by approximately 36%; closed offices
      in Tampa, Florida and San Rafael, California; and reduced or eliminated
      duplication in marketing, administrative and other activities. 

In
      addition, the Company reduced operating expenses from $5.3 million in the first
      quarter of 2004 to approximately $3.8 million in each of the second and third
      quarters of 2004, in part through a reduction in personnel from 110 at the
      beginning of the first quarter of 2004 to approximately 70 at the beginning
      of
      the second quarter of 2004.  

90 

iCAD,
                INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Schedule
                II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

(1)
                Represents the amount of accounts charged off. 

(2)
                Represents inventory written off and disposed of. 

91 

<EX-10.K>
 2
 v039103_ex-10k.htm

Unassociated Document

EXHIBIT
      10 (k)   

REVOLVING
      LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT 

      CONVERTIBLE
      REVOLVING CREDIT PROMISSORY NOTE 

      DATED
      OCTOBER 26, 1987 

      ADDENDUM
      NO. 17 

For
      consideration given and received, Robert Howard and iCAD, Inc. hereby agree
      to
      extend the repayment date in Paragraph D of the above referenced Convertible
      Revolving Credit Promissory Note, as amended, (the  Note ) from January 4, 2006
      to March 31, 2007. Also the Note hereafter will be a maximum principal sum
      of
      Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000).  

Effective
      the 31   st   .
      day of
      December 2005. 

Please
      note that I, Mr. Robert Howard, do not intend to call in the principal balance
      of the note within 366 days from the date of this amendment.  

In
        addition, I agree that I will not, while the revolving line of credit exists,
        convert any outstanding advances under the agreement into shares of iCAD  common
        stock that would exceed the available shares for issuance defined as the
        authorized shares of the iCAD common stock less issued and outstanding common
        shares less any reserved shares for outstanding convertible preferred stock,
        non-employee warrants and non-employee stock options. 

ICAD,
      INC. 

By:
                     /s/
                  Annette
                  Heroux                         

/s/
                  Robert
                  Howard                                

Title:Chief
                  Financial Officer  

Robert
                  Howard 

March
                30, 2006   

</EX-10.K>

<EX-10.U>
 3
 v039103_ex10u.htm

</EX-10.U>

<EX-10.V>
 24
 v039103_ex10v.htm

</EX-10.V>

<EX-10.W>
 62
 v039103_ex10w.htm

</EX-10.W>

<EX-21>
 100
 v039103_ex-21.htm

EXHIBIT
      21  

Subsidiaries
      of iCAD, Inc.   

Name 

Jurisdiction
                of Incorporation/Organization 

Qualia
                Acquisition Corporation 

Delaware 

CADx
                Systems, Inc. 

Delaware 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 101
 v039103_ex-23.htm

EXHIBIT
      23   

CONSENT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

iCAD,
      Inc. 

      Nashua,
      New Hampshire 

We
      hereby
      consent to the incorporation by reference in the Prospectuses constituting
      part
      of the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 33-72534), (No. 333-99973)
      and
      (No. 333-119509) and on Form S-3 (No. 333-121821), (No. 333-112689) and
      (333-110977) of our reports dated March 31, 2006, relating to the consolidated
      financial statements and schedule, and the effectiveness of the internal
      controls over financial reporting of iCAD, Inc. appearing in the Annual Report
      on Form10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. 

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 102
 v039103_ex31-1.htm

EXHIBIT
      31.1  

CERTIFICATION
      OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

I,
      W.
      Scott Parr, Chief Executive Officer of iCAD, Inc, certify that: 

1.     I
      have
      reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
      31,
      2005 of iCAD, Inc..; 

2.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
      periods presented in this report;  

4.     The
      registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
      and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
      Act
      Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
      (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      have: 

a)     Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)     Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
      over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
      reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
      generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)     Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and; 

d)     Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.     The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
      directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a)     All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and  

b)     Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting.  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 103
 v039103_ex31-2.htm

EXHIBIT
      31.2  

CERTIFICATION
      OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER 

I,
      Annette Heroux, Chief Financial Officer of iCAD, Inc, certify that: 

1.     I
      have
      reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
      31,
      2005 of iCAD, Inc..; 

2.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.     Based
      on
      my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
      periods presented in this report;  

4.     The
      registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
      and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
      Act
      Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
      (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      have: 

a)     Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)     Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
      over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
      reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
      generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)     Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and; 

d)     Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.     The
      registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
      directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a)     All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and  

b)     Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting.  

Date:
                    March 31, 2006 

/s/
                    Annette Heroux    

Annette
                    Heroux 

Chief Financial
                    Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 104
 v039103_ex32-1.htm

Unassociated Document

EXHIBIT
      32.1  

iCAD,
      Inc.  

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO  

       18
      U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  

       AS
      ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  

       SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of iCAD, Inc. (the  Company ) on
      Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 (the  Report ), I, W.
      Scott Parr, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to
      18
      U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
      Act of 2002, that:  

(1)  
             
                The
                Report fully complies with the requirements of      Section 13(a)
                or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
                and 

(2) 

The
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
                Company. 

/s/
                    W. Scott Parr    

W.
                    Scott Parr  

Chief
                    Executive Officer 

Date   :
      March 31, 2006     

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 105
 v039103_ex32-2.htm

Unassociated Document

EXHIBIT
      32.2  

iCAD,
      Inc.  

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO  

       18
      U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  

       AS
      ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  

       SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of iCAD, Inc. (the  Company ) on
      Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 (the  Report ), I,
      Annette Heroux, the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant
      to
      18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
      Act of 2002, that:  

(1)  
             
                The
                Report fully complies with the requirements of      Section 13(a)
                or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
                and 

(2) 

The
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
                Company. 

/s/
                Annette Heroux    

Annette
                Heroux 

Chief Financial
                Officer 

Date   :
      March 31, 2006     

</EX-32.2>

