<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_944480_0001169232-06-001787_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>346645</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>270182</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>550</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>32</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001169232-06-001787.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331163435
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001169232-06-001787
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GSE SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000944480
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				521868008
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14785
		FILM NUMBER:		06729382

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		7133 RUTHERFORD RD
		STREET 2:		SUITE 200
		CITY:			BALTIMORE
		STATE:			MD
		ZIP:			21244
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4102773740

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		7133 RUTHERFORD RD
		STREET 2:		SUITE 200
		CITY:			BALTIMORE
		STATE:			MD
		ZIP:			21244

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 ENYECy2hIzftNe+gwiizoCyUM8r5VWjeQTZHe+crzo1H2RErYidrXFleYKJyoz+K
 x83wJlNe8uAt2S1oE6j9xg==

 0001169232-06-001787.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 f10k_2005.txt
 10-K 2005
 
                                                                       Conformed
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
 (Mark One)

          [ X ]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005

OR
          [   ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the transition period from _____ to _____

                         Commission File Number 0-26494

                                GSE Systems, Inc.
                            ------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Delaware                                52-1868008
     -------------                           ----------------
(State of incorporation)            (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)

7133 Rutherford Rd, Suite 200, Baltimore MD.         21244
- --------------------------------------------        -------
(Address of principal executive offices)          (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (410) 277-3740

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

    Title of each class            Name of each exchange on which registered
   ---------------------          -------------------------------------------
 Common Stock, $.01 par value           American Stock Exchange

     SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE

     Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known  seasoned  issuer,
as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes [ ] No [X]

     Indicate by check mark if the  registrant  is not  required to file reports
pursuant  to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  Yes [ ] No [X]

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [ X ] No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer,
an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of "accelerated
filer and large  accelerated  filer" in  Rule 12b-2 of the  Exchange Act. (Check
one):

Large accelerated filer [  ]  Accelerated filer [  ]   Non-accelerated filer [X]

     Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  registrant  is a shell  company  (as
defined in rule 12(b)-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes [ ] No [X]

     The  aggregate  market value of Common Stock held by  non-affiliates  as of
June 30, 2005 was  $6,922,177  based on the closing  price of such stock on that
date of $1.80.

     The number of shares  outstanding of each of the registrant's  Common Stock
and Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock as of March 15, 2006:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share                     8,999,706 shares
Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock,
par value $.01 per share                                      42,500 shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders  to be filed  pursuant  to  Regulation  14A  under  the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are incorporated by reference into Part III.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART I                                                                      Page
Item 1.         Business...................................................... 3
Item 1A.        Risk Factors..................................................19
Item 1B.        Unresolved Staff Comments.....................................23
Item 2.         Properties....................................................23
Item 3.         Legal Proceedings.............................................24
Item 4.         Submission of  Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..........24

PART II
Item 5.         Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
                        Stockholder Matters...................................25
Item 6.         Selected Consolidated Financial Data..........................27
Item 7.         Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                        and Results of Operations.............................29
Item 7A.        Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk....44
Item 8.         Financial Statements and Supplementary Data...................46
Item 9.         Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
                        on Accounting and Financial Disclosure................47
Item 9A.        Controls and Procedures.......................................47
Item 9B.        Other Information.............................................47

PART III
Item 10.        Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant*...........48
Item 11.        Executive Compensation*.......................................48
Item 12.        Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                        and Management and Related Stockholder Matters*.......48
Item 13.        Certain Relationships and Related Transactions*...............48
Item 14.        Principal Accountant Fees and Services*.......................48

PART IV
Item 15.        Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules....................49

                SIGNATURES....................................................50
                Exhibits Index................................................51

     * to be  incorporated  by  reference  from  the  Proxy  Statement  for  the
registrant's 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

RETACT(R), GSE Systems(R), Thor(R), OpenSim(R),  SmartTutor(R), SimSuite Pro(R),
ESmart(R), and GAARDS(R) are registered trademarks and GFLOW+(TM),  GLOGIC+(TM),
GCONTROL+(TM),  GPower+(TM),  SimSuite Power(TM),  SimExec(TM), eXtreme I/S(TM),
RACS(TM),   PEGASUS  Plant  Surveillance  and  Diagnosis  System(TM),   SIMONTM,
BRUS(TM),  SensBase(TM),  Vista  PINTM,  and  Java  Applications  &  Development
Environment  (JADE)TM are trademarks of GSE Systems,  Inc. All other  trademarks
used in this document are the property of their respective owners.

           Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-LookingStatements.

     This  report  contains  forward-looking  statements  within the  meaning of
Section 27A of the  Securities  Act of 1933, as amended,  and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  The Private Securities  Litigation
Reform Act of 1995  provides a "safe  harbor"  for forward  looking  statements.
Forward-looking  Statements are not statements of historical  facts,  but rather
reflect our current  expectations  concerning future events and results.  We use
words such as "expects", "intends",  "believes", "may", "will" and "anticipates"
to indicate forward-looking statements. Because these forward-looking statements
involve risks and  uncertainties,  there are important  factors that could cause
actual  results to differ  materially  from those  expressed or implied by these
forward-looking  statements,  including,  but not limited to, those  factors set
forth  under Item 1A - Risk  Factors  and those  other  risks and  uncertainties
detailed in the Company's  periodic  reports and  registration  statements filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  We caution that these risk factors
may  not  be  exhaustive.   We  operate  in  a  continually   changing  business
environment,  and new risk factors  emerge from time to time. We cannot  predict
these new risk  factors,  nor can we assess the effect,  if any, of the new risk
factors on our  business  or the extent to which any  factor or  combination  of
factors may cause  actual  results to differ from those  expressed or implied by
these forward-looking statements.

     If any one or more of these  expectations and assumptions proves incorrect,
actual  results will likely differ  materially  from those  contemplated  by the
forward-looking  statements.  Even  if  all  of the  foregoing  assumptions  and
expectations  prove  correct,  actual results may still differ  materially  from
those expressed in the forward-looking  statements as a result of factors we may
not  anticipate  or that may be beyond our control.  While we cannot  assess the
future  impact  that  any of  these  differences  could  have  on our  business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or the market price of
shares of our common stock,  the  differences  could be  significant.  We do not
undertake  to update any  forward-looking  statements  made by us,  whether as a
result of new information,  future events or otherwise. You are cautioned not to
unduly rely on such  forward-looking  statements when evaluating the information
presented in this report.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

     GSE Systems, Inc. ("GSE Systems", "GSE" or the "Company") is a world leader
in real-time,  high fidelity  simulation.  The Company  provides  simulation and
educational  solutions and services to the nuclear and fossil  electric  utility
industry,  the  chemical  and  petrochemical  industries  and to the US Military
Complex. In addition, the Company provides plant monitoring, and signal analysis
monitoring  and  optimization  software  primarily  to the power  industry.

     The Company's annual report on Form 10-K,  quarterly  reports on Form 10-Q,
current  reports on Form 8-K,  and all  amendments to those reports will be made
available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of the Company's
Internet  website  (http://www.gses.com)  as  soon  as  practicable  after  such
material is  electronically  filed with,  or furnished  to, the  Securities  and
Exchange Commission.

Recent Developments.

     On June 21, 2005, the Board of Directors of GP Strategies  Corporation ("GP
Strategies")  approved  plans to  spin-off  its 57%  interest  in GSE  through a
special dividend to the GP Strategies' stockholders.  On September 30, 2005, the
GP Strategies' stockholders received 0.283075 share of GSE common stock for each
share of GP Strategies  common stock or Class B stock held on the record date of
September 19, 2005.  Following the  spin-off,  GP Strategies  ceased to have any
ownership  interest in GSE. GP  Strategies  will  continue to provide  corporate
support services to GSE, including accounting,  finance, human resources, legal,
network  support  and tax  pursuant to a  Management  Services  Agreement  which
expires on December 31, 2006.

     In 2005, the Company  incurred a significant  operating loss. The Company's
revenue and  profitability  were  impacted by the low volume of orders logged in
2004 and 2005 and the Company's backlog decreased from $19.6 million at December
31,  2004 to $12.3  million at  December  31,  2005.  In  addition,  the Company
continued to spend heavily on business development activities in order to expand
the Company's  simulation  business into new sectors,  such as  integrating  its
simulation   capabilities  with  broader  training  and  educational   programs.
Accordingly,  the Company's cash position  weakened  during the year, with total
cash used in operating  activities  of $1.9 million.  The Company  received $2.0
million through the sale of a Senior  Subordinated  Secured  Convertible Note to
Dolphin  Direct Equity  Partners,  LP  ("Dolphin")  in May 2005, and the Company
utilized $1.2 million of its $1.5 million  credit  facility in 2005. The Company
took  actions that will reduce its  operating  expenses in 2006,  including  the
termination of a number  of employees and by restructuring two facility leases.

     In order to ensure that the Company has sufficient working capital in 2006,
the Company completed several financing  transactions in early 2006. On February
28,  2006,  the Company  and Dolphin  entered  into a  Cancellation  and Warrant
Exchange Agreement (the "Cancellation Agreement ") under which Dolphin agreed to
cancel its Senior Subordinated  Secured  Convertible  Promissory Note and cancel
its  outstanding  warrant to purchase  380,952  shares of GSE common stock at an
exercise price of $2.22 per share. In exchange for Dolphin's  agreement to enter
into the  Cancellation  Agreement and for the  participation of Dolphin Offshore
Partners,  LP in the Preferred Stock  transaction  discussed  below, the Company
paid off the Dolphin Note and agreed to issue a new warrant to purchase  900,000
shares of GSE common stock at an exercise price of $0.67 per share. Dolphin must
exercise the new warrant  promptly after the Company  certifies to Dolphin on or
after May 30, 2006 (the "Mandatory  Exercise  Date") that,  among other  things,
the current stock price shall not be less than $1.25 on the  Mandatory  Exercise
Date and that the average of the current  stock  prices for each  trading day of
the 30 calendar day period up to and including  the  Mandatory  Exercise Date is
not less than $1.25.

     On February 28, 2006, the Company raised $4.25 million  through the sale of
42,500 shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Warrants by
means of a private placement to "accredited investors",  as that term is used in
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Convertible
Preferred  Stock is convertible at any time into a total of 2,401,130  shares of
GSE common stock at a conversion  price of $1.77 per share. The conversion price
was equal to 110% of the closing price of the Company's Common Stock on February
28, 2006, the date the sale of the  Convertible  Preferred  Stock was completed.
Each investor received a five-year warrant to purchase GSE common stock equal to
20% of the shares they would  received from the  conversion  of the  Convertible
Preferred Stock, at an exercise price of $1.77. In aggregate, the Company issued
warrants  to  purchase  a total of  480,226  shares  of GSE  common  stock.  The
Convertible  Preferred Stock holders are entitled to an 8% cumulative  dividend,
payable on a semiannual basis every June 30 and December 30. If the Company does
not make two consecutive  dividend  payments on the dates such payments are due,
there will be an  additional  30% warrant  coverage of  five-year  warrants at a
conversion  price of $1.77 per  share.  At any time  after  March 1,  2007,  the
Company has the right to convert the  Preferred  Stock into shares of GSE common
stock when the average of the current stock price during the twenty trading days
immediately  prior to the date of such  conversion  exceeds 200% of the Series A
Conversion Price. The holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to
vote on all matters submitted to the stockholders for a vote,  together with the
holders of the voting common stock,  all voting together as a single class.  The
holders of the  Convertible  Preferred Stock are entitled to the number of votes
equal to the number of GSE common stock that they would receive upon  conversion
of their Convertible Preferred Stock.

     The Company paid the placement  agent 6% of the gross proceeds  received by
the Company from the offering  ($255,000)  plus  five-year  warrants to purchase
150,000  shares of the Company's  common stock at an exercise price of $1.77 per
share.

     The proceeds were used to payoff the Dolphin Note and the Company's line of
credit balance and for other working capital purposes.

     On  March 7,  2006,  the  Company  entered  into a new  loan  and  security
agreement  with Laurus Master Fund,  Ltd. The new  agreement  established a $5.0
million  line  of  credit  for  the  Company.  The  line  is  collateralized  by
substantially  all of the Company's assets and provides for borrowings up to 90%
of eligible accounts receivable, and 40% of eligible unbilled receivables (up to
a maximum of $1.0 million). The interest rate on this line of credit is based on
the prime rate plus 200-basis  points,  with interest only payments due monthly.

     The Company issued to Laurus Master Fund,  Ltd. a warrant to purchase up to
367,647 shares of GSE common stock at an exercise price of $.01 per share.

     After the completion of the financing  transactions  discussed  above,  the
Company  believes that it has sufficient  liquidity and working  capital for its
operations in 2006.  However, if the Company is unable to operate profitably and
generate sufficient cash from operations, the availability under its new line of
credit  may not be  sufficient  and the  Company  may be  required  to look  for
additional  capital to fund its  operations.  There can be no assurance that the
Company would be successful in raising such additional funds.

     The Company  believes it is positioned to take advantage of emerging trends
in the power industry including a global nuclear power renaissance driven by the
high cost of oil coupled with environmental  concerns caused by fossil fuels. In
the U.S. alone,  the operating  licenses for 32 nuclear power plants will expire
over the next  several  years.  Many of these  plants are  planning  significant
upgrades to the physical  equipment and control room  technology in  conjunction
with the license  extensions.  Both will result in the need to modify or replace
the existing plant control room simulators. The Company, having what it believes
is the  largest  installed  base  of  existing  simulators,  over  65%,  is well
positioned  to capture a large portion of this  business,  although no assurance
can be given that it will be successful in doing so.

     In the  first  quarter  2005,  the  Company  completed  an  agreement  with
Westinghouse  Electric  Company  LLC to become  their  preferred  vendor for the
development  of simulators for the AP1000  reactor  design.  As a result of this
agreement,  GSE will work closely with Westinghouse to finalize the verification
and  validation  of the  AP1000  Reactor  Human-Machine  Interface  for the Main
Control  Room.  GSE  expended  approximately  $124,000  in  2005  on  developing
simulation  models for the AP1000 reactor.  In turn,  Westinghouse  and GSE will
collaborate on new opportunities both  internationally and domestically.  Recent
reports  indicate  that the Chinese  government  expects to build 40 new nuclear
plants over the next 10 years utilizing  Western  technology.  Most of these new
plants will require a stand alone simulator for which the Company believes it is
best qualified to supply.

     In addition,  in the second  quarter  2005,  the Company was awarded a $1.3
million  contract,  which will be completed  April 2006,  to develop  simulation
models for the novel Pebble Bed Modular Reactor System (PBMR) being developed by
a South African  company.  The PBMR is a new high temperature gas cooled reactor
that is inherently  safe and  reliable.  Each reactor is designed to produce 165
MW, enough to provide energy for 40,000 hours.  The system is designed such that
additional reactors can easily be added as energy demand increases.  The PBMR is
ideally  suited for areas with current  modest energy needs that are expected to
grow. GSE believes it is in an excellent position to provide the simulators that
will be required with each PBMR installation, although there is no guarantee the
Company will be awarded additional contracts.

     In the fourth  quarter 2005, the Company  continued its  penetration of the
worldwide  nuclear  power  market by  receipt of  contract  awards in the United
States,  Europe,  and Mexico,  aggregating  $3.2  million.  It also  sponsored a
simulation seminar in Shanghai,  China that was widely attended by professionals
from the nuclear power industry,  several  Universities  and the Chinese Central
Government.

     Throughout  the year,  the Company  continued its focus on the fossil power
segment of the power  industry.  In 2005, the Company logged fossil power orders
of over $3.8  million.  The  Company  expects  continued  growth in this  market
segment and is focusing  on second  time  simulation  buyers that now demand the
more sophisticated and realistic simulation models offered by the Company.

     While GSE  simulators  are  primarily  utilized  for power  plant  operator
training,  the  uses  are  expanding  to  include  engineering  analysis,  plant
modification studies, and operation efficiency improvements for both nuclear and
fossil utilities. During plant construction, simulators are used to test control
strategies and ensure on-time start-up. After commissioning,  the same tools can
be used to increase plant  availability  and optimize plant  performance for the
life of the  facility.  In  partnership  with an industry  leading  optimization
company,  GSE will be participating in DOE grant programs to utilize  simulation
and optimization for DOE's clean coal power initiative.

     Over the course of 2005,  the Company  continued  to develop its concept of
integrating   simulation   with  broader   training   programs  and  educational
initiatives  giving customers a turnkey  alternative to operator and maintenance
training.  The Company  believes  that this  offering  is unique.  In the fourth
quarter 2005,  the Company  announced  the formation of the Emirates  Simulation
Academy,  LLC  (ESA),  a United  Arab  Emirates  company,  to build and  operate
simulation  training  academies in the Arab Gulf  Region.  GSE is a 10% owner of
ESA.  These  simulation  training  centers will be designed to train and certify
indigenous  workers  for  deployment  to  a  nation's  critical   infrastructure
facilities  including  power  plants,  oil  refineries,  petro-chemical  plants,
desalination units and other industrial facilities. In January 2006, the Company
announced the award of a contract  valued at over $15 million from ESA to supply
five simulators and an integrated training program.

     The Company  continues to execute its plan with respect to military defense
simulation.  Over  the  course  of the  year  the  Company's  revenue  from  its
simulation work for the US Navy on their nuclear propulsion program grew to over
$2 million.  The Navy  selected  GSE's  technology  for this  program,  which is
expected to extend  through  the year 2025.  The Company  also  entered  into an
agreement  with Atlantis  Systems  Corporation,  a leading  training  integrator
specializing  in the military and  commercial  aviation  markets  worldwide,  to
jointly market,  win and execute  contracts in the U.S.  Government and Military
markets.  Under the terms of the  agreement,  GSE will  license its  proprietary
simulation technology to Atlantis.

     As of December 31, 2005, the Company's backlog was $12.3 million.  However,
as of February 28, 2006 the backlog was $29.5 million, of which $17.0 million is
expected to be recognized as revenue in 2006.

Background.

     GSE Systems was formed on March 30, 1994 to consolidate  the simulation and
related businesses of S3 Technologies, General Physics International Engineering
&  Simulation  and  EuroSim,  each  separately  owned and  operated  by  ManTech
International   Corporation,   GP  Strategies  Corporation  and  Vattenfall  AB,
respectively.  On  December  30,  1994,  GSE Systems  expanded  into the process
control automation and supply chain management  consulting  industry through its
acquisition of the process systems division of Texas  Instruments  Incorporated,
which the Company operated as GSE Process Solutions, Inc. ("Process").

     In December 1997, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock
of J.L. Ryan, Inc. ("Ryan"), a provider of engineering modifications and upgrade
services to the power plant simulation  market. The combination of the Company's
pre-existing  technology  with the technical staff of the acquired Ryan business
positioned  the Company to be more  competitive  for  modifications  and upgrade
service  projects  within the nuclear  simulation  market.

     In October  2002,  GSE purchased  the stock of ManTech  Automation  Systems
(Beijing)  Company Ltd, from ManTech  International  Corp. The Chinese  company,
which has five employees, was renamed GSE Systems Engineering  (Beijing) Company
Ltd. This acquisition gave the Company a much needed base in China to pursue and
implement simulation projects in that emerging market.

     In September 2003, the Company  completed the sale of substantially  all of
the assets of GSE Process Solutions,  Inc. (Process) to Novatech, LLC (Novatech)
pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement,  effective as of September 25, 2003, by
and between the Company, Process and Novatech. The Company received $5.5 million
in cash.

Simulation Business.

     Power Simulation.

Industry History

     The  real-time  simulation  industry  grew from the need to train people on
complex and potentially  dangerous  operations,  without placing life or capital
assets at risk.  Real-time  simulation  has been used for the  training of plant
operators  for the power  industry,  including  both  nuclear  power  plants and
conventional  fossil fuel power plants (i.e., coal, oil, and natural gas), since
the early  1970s.  Real-time  simulation  usage has  traditionally  centered  on
initial  training of operators and follow-on  training of operators in emergency
conditions that can best be achieved through simulation replicating actual plant
operations.

     In the nuclear power industry,  use of a simulator that accurately reflects
the current  actual  plant  design is mandated  by the U.S.  Nuclear  Regulatory
Commission.  This mandate resulted from the investigation of the accident at the
Three Mile Island nuclear plant in 1979, which was attributed, at least in part,
to operator  error.  The NRC  requires  nuclear  plant  operators  to earn their
licenses  through  simulator  testing.  Each nuclear plant simulator must pass a
certification program to ensure that the initial plant design and all subsequent
changes made to the actual plant control room or plant operations are accurately
reflected  in the  simulator.  Plant  operating  licenses  are tied to simulator
certification.

     Full scope  power plant  simulators  are a physical  representation  of the
entire plant control room. The control  panels are connected to an  input/output
(I/O)  system,  which  converts  analog  electrical  signals to digital  signals
understood  by the  simulation  computer.  The  simulation  computer  houses the
mathematical  models,  which  simulate  the  physical  performance  of the power
plant's  systems such as the reactor core,  steam boiler,  cooling water,  steam
turbine, electrical generator, plant system controls and electrical distribution
systems.  Partial  scope  simulators  can be viewed as a subset of a full  scope
simulator.  Instead of simulating  the entire  performance of the power plant, a
partial scope simulator might represent one or two critical  systems such as the
steam turbine and/or electrical generator operation.

     In the past,  training  simulators had to strike a delicate balance between
providing  an  accurate  engineering  representation  of the plant,  while still
operating in "real-time" in order to provide  effective  training.  As computing
power has  increased,  so too has the  capacity of  simulators  to provide  more
accurate  plant  representations  in  real-time  based  upon  simulation  models
developed from engineering design codes.

     Simulation  also is used to validate  proposed plant  equipment  changes to
confirm  the results of such  changes,  prior to making the change in the plant,
which can save time and money, as well as reduce the risk of unsafe designs, for
the utility.

     Demand for new  simulators  in the nuclear  power  industry  shifted to the
international  market in the  1990s,  as the  domestic  market  was  limited  to
upgrades and replacement of existing  simulators.  However, the Company believes
that the economics and importance of nuclear power to the U.S. energy supply may
result in the extension of the useful lives of U.S.  nuclear  power plants.  Any
service  life  extension  of a nuclear  power  plant is likely to require  major
upgrades to the plant's equipment and technology, including its simulator.

     Fossil fuel plant simulators are not required by law or regulation, but are
justified as a cost-effective approach to train operators on new digital control
systems being implemented at many fossil fuel power plants. The size, complexity
and price of a fossil plant  simulator are much lower than for  simulators  used
for nuclear  plants.  Fossil  plant  simulators  have  traditionally  used lower
fidelity  (less  sophisticated)  mathematical  models to provide an  approximate
representation of plant  performance.  The demand for highly accurate models did
not exist in the early  market for fossil  simulators  since the main use of the
simulator was to train  operators on the  functionality  of distributed  control
systems for plant start-up activities.

     The  deregulation of the power industry has forced  utilities to view their
assets  differently.  Power plants must now be profit  centers,  and gaining the
maximum  efficiency  from the  plant to  become,  or  remain,  competitive  is a
paramount issue. The mindset of the operator has shifted, as plant operators now
must  perform  within  narrower  and narrower  performance  margins  while still
maintaining  safe  operations.  GSE believes its fossil fuel plant customers are
now  recognizing  the benefits of high fidelity  simulation  models that provide
highly accurate  representations of plant operations to help plant operators and
management determine optimal performance conditions.

     Beyond  traditional  operator training uses, the Company sees a significant
shift in the use of its simulators to test plant automation  systems before they
are deployed in the actual plant.  Control  strategies  and equipment set points
are  validated  on the  simulator  prior to plant start up to ensure the control
schemes work properly and the expected plant performance is achieved. Performing
these tests on a high fidelity  simulator saves days or weeks in the plant start
up,  thereby  reducing  cost and  ensuring  quicker  revenue  generation  by the
utility.

Industry Future

     The  Company  sees  a  renaissance   in  nuclear  power   generation   both
domestically and internationally that will provide significant opportunities for
expansion of the Company's  business.  China has announced plans to build 40 new
nuclear  plants by the year  2020.  Russia has also  announced  plans for 40 new
plants by 2030.  New plants are on the drawing  board or under  construction  in
Finland,  Slovakia, and Bulgaria.  Domestically numerous utilities are preparing
applications  for  Construction  and  Operating  Licenses  under  the  DOE  2010
incentive  program, a joint  government/industry  cost-shared effort to identify
sites for new nuclear power plants, develop advanced nuclear plant technologies,
and demonstrate new regulatory processes leading to a private sector decision to
order new nuclear  power plants for  deployment in the United States in the 2010
timeframe.  Beyond new construction,  numerous  U.S. utilities are extending the
useful life of their current assets.

     These license  extension  processes in the nuclear  industry will result in
significant  changes in plant equipment and control room technology.  Based upon
U.S.  Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission  regulations,  each training  simulator is
required  to reflect all changes  that are made in the actual  plant,  thus when
changes in plant  equipment and control room  technology  are made,  the nuclear
power  plants must either  upgrade  existing  simulators  or purchase  brand new
simulators.

     The second phenomena affecting the industry is the aging of the nuclear and
fossil plant operator  workforce which will result in the need for simulation to
train the next  generation  of plant  operators.  The  industry is faced with an
aging  workforce  at the same  time new  capacity  is  needed,  thereby  placing
significant  pressure on the industry to find and train the next  generation  of
operations and maintenance  personnel.  According to the Energy Central Research
and Analysis Division white paper entitled The High Cost of Losing  Intellectual
Capital,  the U.S. Bureau of Labor  Statistics  predicts that 30% or more of the
existing  workforce will be eligible for retirement in the next five years,  and
it is believed  that by 2012 there will be nearly  10,000 more utility  industry
jobs then workers to fill them.

     Therefore, the Company believes that these trends, if they come to fruition
in whole or even in part,  represent  a  market  opportunity  for its  real-time
simulation,  plant  optimization,  asset  management  and  condition  monitoring
products and services.

     GSE's solution

     The Company's Simulation business is a leader in the development, marketing
and support of high fidelity,  real-time,  dynamic  simulation  software for the
electric  utility  industry.  The Company has built or modified  about 65 of the
approximately 75 full-scope simulators serving about 103 operating nuclear power
plants  in the  United  States.  Outside  the  United  States,  GSE has built or
modified  about  73 of  the  approximately  167  full-scope  simulators  serving
approximately 329 operating nuclear power plants.

     In 2005, the Company developed  integrated training solutions which combine
the power of the  Company's  simulation  technology  with  training  content  to
provide turn-key training for the power and process  industries.  These training
centers will help industry bridge the gap between  college and university  level
training,  and real world  experience  through  simulation.  The  students  that
graduate  from GSE's  training  centers will be eminently  more  valuable to the
market place.

     In addition to operator  training,  the Company's  simulation  products and
services permit plant owners and operators to simulate the effects of changes in
plant  configuration  and  performance  conditions to optimize plant  operation.
These features allow the Company's customers to understand the cost implications
of  replacing  a piece  of  equipment,  installing  new  technology  or  holding
out-of-service  assets.  GSE has  also  developed  a suite  of  tools  based  on
sophisticated  signal  analysis and simulation  techniques to help its customers
manage  their assets by  determining  equipment  degradation  before it severely
impacts plant performance.

     The Company has also focused on upgrading  older  technology  used in power
plants  to new  technology  upgrades  for plant  process  computers  and  safety
parameter  display systems.  As nuclear plants in the U.S.  continue to age, the
Company  will seek more  business in this  upgrade  market.

     GSE  provides  both turnkey  solutions,  including  simulated  hardware and
proprietary  software,  to  match a  specific  plant,  and  discrete  simulation
technology for specific uses throughout a plant.  Its substantial  investment in
simulation  technology has led to the development of proprietary software tools.
These  tools  significantly  reduce  the cost and time to  implement  simulation
solutions  and support  long-term  maintenance.  The  Company's  high  fidelity,
real-time  simulation  technology  for power  plant  fluid,  logic and  control,
electrical systems and associated real time support software, JADE, is available
for use primarily on UNIX, Linux and Windows computer  platforms.  The Company's
eXtreme tools were designed for the Windows environment.  Both technologies were
specifically  designed  to  provide  user  friendly  graphic  interfaces  to the
Company's high fidelity simulator.

     In addition to the simulator  market,  the Company offers products aimed at
improving  performance  of existing  plants by reducing  the number of unplanned
outages due to equipment failure. Using advanced signal analysis techniques, the
Company's  tools can predict when certain plant  equipment needs to be replaced.
Replacement of critical  equipment prior to failure permits  effective  planning
and efficient use of maintenance time during scheduled off-line periods.

     Products of the Power Simulation business include:

* Java Applications & Development  Environment (JADE), a Java-based  application
that  provides  a window  into  the  simulation  instructor  station  and  takes
advantage  of the web  capabilities  of Java,  allowing  customers to access the
simulator  and run  simulation  scenarios  from anywhere they have access to the
web. JADE includes the following software modeling tools:
*    Jflow, a modeling tool that generates  dynamic models for flow and pressure
     networks.

*    Jcontrol,  a modeling tool that  generates  control logic models from logic
     diagrams.

*    Jlogic, a modeling tool that generates  control logic models from schematic
     diagrams.

*    Jelectric,  a modeling  tool that  generates  electric  system  models from
     schematic and one-line diagrams.

*    Jtopmeret, a modeling tool that generates two phase network dynamic models.

*    Jdesigner, a JADE based intuitive graphic editor for all JADE tools.

*    Jstation, a JADE based web-enabled Instructor Station.

*  eXtreme  Tools is a suite of  software  modeling  tools  developed  under the
Microsoft Windows environment. It includes:

*    XtremeFlow,  a modeling  tool that  generates  dynamic  models for flow and
     pressure networks.

*    XtremeControl,  a modeling  tool that  generates  control logic models from
     logic diagrams.

*    XtremeLogic,  a modeling  tool that  generates  control  logic  models from
     schematic diagrams.

*    Xtreme Electric, a modeling tool that generates electric system models from
     schematic and one-line diagrams.

* SimExec,  and OpenSim are real-time  simulation executive systems that control
all  real-time  simulation  activities  and  allows  for  an  off-line  software
development  environment in parallel with the training  environment.  OpenSim is
targeted for users of Microsoft  Windows  operating  systems,  while  SimExec is
targeted for users of Microsoft Windows, UNIX and LINUX operating systems.

* SmartTutor,  complementary  software for instructor stations.  It provides new
capabilities to help improve  training  methodologies  and  productivity.  Using
Microsoft  ActiveX  controls,  SmartTutor  allows the  control of the  simulator
software  directly from  Microsoft  Office  products.  The user can run training
scenarios  directly  from a  Microsoft  Word  document,  or he can plot and show
transients live within a Microsoft PowerPoint slide.

* eXtreme I/S, a Microsoft Windows based Instructor  Station that allows the use
of  Microsoft   Word  and   PowerPoint  to  control  the  real-time   simulation
environment.  eXtreme I/S is a  user-friendly  tool for  classroom  training and
electronic report generation.  It provides real-time plant performance  directly
from the  simulator  during  classroom  training,  which  drastically  increases
learning efficiency.

*  Pegasus   Surveillance   and  Diagnosis   System,   a  software  package  for
semi-automatic  plant surveillance and diagnostics,  incorporates  sophisticated
signal  processing  and  simulation  techniques to help  operators  evaluate the
condition and performance of plant components.  Pegasus permits plant management
to identify degraded performance and replace components before they fail.

* SIMON, a computer  workstation system used for monitoring stability of boiling
water  reactor  plants.  SIMON  assists the  operator in  determining  potential
instability   events,   enabling  corrective  action  to  be  taken  to  prevent
unnecessary plant shutdowns.

     The Simulation business also provides  consulting and engineering  services
to help users plan, design, implement, and manage/support simulation and control
systems. Services include application engineering, project management, training,
site services, maintenance contracts and repair.

     Strategy

  The  goal of the  Power  Simulation  business  is to  expand  its
business on four fronts:

     *    Continue serving its traditional customer base.

     *    Combine its simulation capability  with  training  content  to provide
          totally integrated training solutions.

     *    Market its  existing and  upgraded  simulation  products and its newly
          designed  signal  analysis  products  as  plant   optimization   asset
          management and condition monitoring tools.

     *    Leverage its existing engineering staff to provide additional services
          to domestic and international clients.

     Traditional  Simulation Market.  Nuclear power currently accounts for about
20% of the  electrical  power  grid  capacity  in the  United  States  and  this
percentage will likely remain the same even as total capacity increases. Any new
nuclear power plants will likely be of the advanced  reactor  designs created by
Westinghouse,  General  Electric  and  Areva.  These  new  designs  require  new
simulators and training  programs,  as they are different from the nuclear power
plant designs currently in operation.  In addition to new power plants, existing
nuclear  power  plants will  likely be  required to remain  on-line for a longer
period than originally expected. In order to stay in operation, many plants will
require life  extension  modifications.  Since all existing  U.S.  nuclear power
plants went on-line  before 1979,  their designs and technology can also benefit
from the substantial  advances in plant design and technology developed over the
past 25 years. For example,  several of the Company's U.S. utility customers are
considering  replacing  their  existing  hard panel  control  rooms with  modern
distributed control systems (DCS) as are common in fossil fuel plants, and which
have been  implemented  in Europe  for  several  years.  Significant  changes to
control room instrumentation and overall control strategy from hard panel to DCS
generally require  modification or replacement of the plant simulator.  With the
largest  installed  base of nuclear plant  simulators in the world,  the Company
believes  it is  uniquely  positioned  to serve  this  market  segment  with new
simulation products and services.  GSE has received several projects in the last
two years for implementing digital turbine control systems in U.S. plants.

     As plants  extend their useful  life,  many plan to "up-rate"  the existing
capacity to increase  electrical  yield.  By  changing  the  capacity of certain
equipment  in a plant,  the  utility can gain  upwards of a 10%-15%  increase in
output. Again, any such changes must be reflected in the control room simulator,
and operators must be trained on the new equipment before implementation.

     In addition to the United States markets,  several  emerging regions of the
world are expanding their electrical  capacity with both nuclear and fossil fuel
power plants.  This is particularly the case in China and the Gulf Region of the
Middle East. In 2005 the Company made  significant  investments in both of these
regions,  and as a result has  identified a number of high impact  opportunities
for full scope simulators and integrated training centers. GSE is increasing its
marketing efforts in both of these areas.

     Classroom  Simulation.  In recent years the Company has  upgraded  numerous
training  simulators to utilize  standard PC technology.  As an extension of the
PC-based simulator technology,  the Company has developed tools which will allow
the training simulator to be used in a classroom  setting,  replacing the actual
control room panels with "soft-panel" graphics.

     Increased  training  requirements  and demands for performance  improvement
have  resulted in simulator  training  time  becoming  scarce.  By providing the
actual  training  simulator  models  in a  classroom  setting,  the value of the
simulator is increased by allowing  more  personnel  the training  advantages of
interactive, dynamic real time simulation.

     The Company  pioneered  the  technology  to run a simulator on a PC several
years ago.  However,  the  technology  remains  complex,  which  prevented  wide
deployment of the  simulator in  classrooms.  The Company has  developed  unique
software which allows  simulator-based  training  lessons to be easily developed
and deployed in a classroom setting.

     Simulation Beyond Training. In addition to operator training, the Company's
simulation  products can meet this  increased  need for  efficiency by assisting
plant operators in understanding the cost  implications of replacing  equipment,
installing new technology and  maintaining  out-of-service  assets.  In order to
exploit this potential, the Company has increased the fidelity of its simulation
products  and is marketing  its services to increase the fidelity of  simulators
that are already in operation.

     As computing  power and  networking  technologies  improve,  several of the
Company's  customers  have  started to migrate  simulation  technology  from the
training  organization  to the  engineering  organization.  The same full  scope
simulation software that drives the simulated control room panels in a simulator
can be used with graphical  representations  of the panels so engineers can test
design  changes and see how the balance of the plant will react to such changes.
GSE has developed a Java-based  application to allow customers easier access to,
and use of, the simulation  capabilities across the organization through network
communication.

     Optimize  Existing  Engineering  Resources.  GSE's Power  domestic  service
organization  focuses on  simulator  upgrades  and  retrofits.  In  addition  to
domestic resources,  GSE has developed a network of trained engineers in Russia,
Ukraine,  Czech Republic,  Bulgaria,  and China. These foreign resources provide
low cost  engineering  and  software  development  capabilities  and are readily
available to supplement the United States engineering staff as necessary.

     Strategic Alliances

     Power's  strategic  alliances have enabled the Company to penetrate regions
outside the United  States by combining the  Company's  technological  expertise
with the regional  presence and  knowledge of local market  participants.  These
strategic   alliances   have  also  permitted  the  reduction  of  research  and
development and marketing costs by sharing such costs with other companies.

     In  recent  years,  a  significant  amount of the  Company's  international
business has come from contracts in Eastern  Europe,  including the republics of
the former  Soviet  Union,  the Pacific  Rim and India.  In order to acquire and
perform these  contracts,  the Company  entered into  strategic  alliances  with
various entities including  Automation Systems Co. Inc., a subsidiary of Beijing
Jihang  Automation  (China);  All Russian  Research  Institute for Nuclear Power
Plant Operation (Russia); Kurchatov Institute (Russia); PowerGen (England); Risk
Engineering  Ltd.  (Bulgaria);  Samsung  Electronics  (Korea);  Toyo Engineering
Corporation  (Japan);  and the Institute for Information  Industry (Taiwan).  In
March  2006,  GSE  completed  a  strategic   alliance  with  the  University  of
Strathclyde  in  Glasgow,   UK  to  develop  a  simulation  training  and  plant
diagnostics center to serve the UK.

     Competition

     The  Power  Simulation  business  encounters  intense  competition.  In the
nuclear  simulation  market,  GSE competes  directly with larger firms primarily
from Canada and Germany,  such as L-3  Communications  MAPPS Inc. and STN Atlas.
The fossil simulation market is represented by smaller companies in the U.S. and
overseas.  Several of the Company's  competitors  have greater capital and other
resources than it has,  including,  among other  advantages,  more personnel and
greater   marketing,   financial,   technical   and  research  and   development
capabilities.  Customer purchasing decisions are generally based upon price, the
quality of the  technology,  experience in related  projects,  and the financial
stability of the supplier.

     Customers

     The Power  Simulation  business has provided  approximately  200 simulation
systems  to  an  installed  base  of  over  75  customers  worldwide.  In  2005,
approximately  63% of the Company's revenue was generated from end users outside
the United States.  Customers  include,  among others,  Arizona Public  Service,
Bernische   Kraftwerke  AG  (Switzerland),  Comission  Federal  De  Electricidad
(Mexico),  Constellation  Energy Group,  Emerson Process  Management,  Honeywell
Hi-Spec Solutions, Karnaraftsakerhet och Utbildning AB (Sweden), Nebraska Public
Power District,  Battelle's  Pacific Northwest National  Laboratory,  Pebble Bed
Modular Reactor (Pty) Ltd. (South Africa), and Nuclear Engineering Ltd. (Japan).

     For the years ended December 31, 2005,  2004, and 2003 one Power Simulation
customer  (Battelle's  Pacific  Northwest  National  Laboratory)  accounted  for
approximately 25%, 24%, and 29%,  respectively,  of GSE's consolidated  revenue.
The  Pacific  Northwest  National  Laboratory  is the  purchasing  agent for the
Department  of Energy and the  numerous  projects  GSE  performs  in Eastern and
Central Europe.

     Sales and Marketing

     The Company markets its Power  Simulation  products and services  through a
network of direct sales staff, agents and  representatives,  systems integrators
and  strategic   alliance  partners.   Market-oriented   business  and  customer
development   teams   define  and   implement   specific   campaigns  to  pursue
opportunities in the power marketplace.

     The Company's ability to support its multi-facility,  international  and/or
multinational  Power Simulation clients is facilitated by its network of offices
and strategic  partners in the U.S. and overseas.  Power Simulation  offices are
maintained in Maryland and Georgia,  and outside the U.S., in Sweden, and China.
In addition to the offices located  overseas,  the Company's  ability to conduct
international  business is enhanced by its multilingual and  multicultural  work
force.  GSE has  strategic  relationships  with systems  integrators  and agents
representing its interests in:

* Brazil                                * Bulgaria
* Czech Republic                        * Germany
* India                                 * Japan
* Mexico                                * People's Republic of China
* Russia                                * Spain
* South Africa                          * South Korea
* Taiwan                                * Ukraine
* United Kingdom

     Process Simulation.

     Industry

     Throughout the process industries there is continuing  competitive pressure
and a reduction of technical resources,  which is forcing process  manufacturers
to turn to advanced  technologies  for  real-time  optimization,  training,  and
advanced  process  control.  Operational  efficiency  is vital for  companies to
remain  competitive where many of the manufacturing  industries  operate on very
thin margins. There are only one or two advanced technology companies that offer
services fully across this spectrum, and GSE offers dynamic real-time simulation
capabilities for operator training into this segment.

     GSE's  Solution

     The SimSuite Pro product was  developed  by GSE  specifically  for operator
training,  and  the GSE  culture  and  expertise  is one of  customized  project
execution and delivery. This marketplace places a high value on experience, both
company-wide  and for the  individuals on the project teams, so GSE promotes its
long history in training  simulators,  while also seeking new applications.  The
SimSuite Pro package continues to be enhanced with features  applicable not just
to the execution of professional training techniques,  but also to the recording
and validating of process operator performance for potential certification.

     Strategy

     The core  concepts of process  simulation  make the  technology a basis for
other potential process improvement activities, such as Advanced Process Control
and Process  Optimization,  which is where some of the major GSE competition has
more business focus than for operator  training.  GSE will continue to emphasize
its operator  training  focus and strengths,  as well as the  application of the
process simulator for change management,  where changes in the process,  control
strategy,  or operating procedures can be evaluated in real time before they are
applied to the actual  process units.  On-stream  time is an important  economic
factor,  and  there is  recognizable  value in  avoiding  the risk of  unplanned
process disturbances from invalidated changes.

     Competition

     GSE's competitors are a varied group. There are major corporations offering
a wide range of products and services that include operator training simulators.
There  are also  companies  focused  on  Process  Technology  and  manufacturing
enhancement,  such as Invensys and  Honeywell  who are DCS  distributors  to the
refining industry and provide operator simulation as part of their DCS offering.
There is a collection of companies  with specific  industry  niches that enables
them to compete in operator training simulation, such as Invensys and RSI. There
are also the smaller training companies that compete at the lower cost levels of
Computer Based Training (CBT) or simple simulations close to CBT.

     The GSE focus on training simulation is a business strength, and its vendor
independence,  with the  ability to  integrate  to  different  vendor's  process
control systems,  is also a value which is appreciated by customers.  GSE can be
seen as a  best-of-breed  type of  supplier  because  it is not  tied to a major
control  system,  nor is it providing  simulation  software for  engineering and
business management with high annual license fees.

     Sales and Marketing

     The  Company  will  market its Process  Simulation  technologies  through a
combination of techniques  including its existing  direct sales  channel,  sales
agents, and strategic alliance partners.

     US Government and Military Simulation

     Industry

     With the  increasing  demand to improve  Homeland  Security,  all levels of
government  and civil  emergency  management  personnel  need to be  trained  in
responding to manmade or natural disasters. Since an Emergency Operations Center
(EOC) is not  permanently  staffed,  there is a significant  loss of proficiency
between  disasters.  When a disaster  happens,  the staff must  assimilate  many
streams of data at once and make  decisions  based upon the facts  presented  to
them.

     Today,  training is accomplished in one of two ways.  First is the tabletop
exercise, where the EOC staff sits around a table and a scenario is presented to
them and they must think  through the steps to take and  articulate  a response.
Experts are there to record the exercise and provide after action analysis.  The
second  is a very  costly  exercise  utilizing  civil  authorities  and  support
organizations such as fire, police, civil works, hospitals,  National Guard etc.
These are extremely  expensive and time consuming exercises in terms of manpower
resources and after action analysis.

     There are EOC facilities at the municipal, state and federal level.

     In  addition, it is  estimated that  the U.S.  Government  averages  yearly
simulation  procurements  of  over $4  billion  for its  military  complex.  The
simulation  services  range from  building  new  simulators,  to  upgrading  and
re-hosting  existing   simulators,   to  maintaining  the  installed  base.  The
simulators  are for Air Force and Naval planes and  helicopters,  Navy ships and
shipboard  systems,  and Army tanks,  trucks and ordinance  systems,  among many
other applications.

     GSE's Solution

     GSE has utilized its over 30 years of  experience  in real-time  simulation
modeling and operations  personnel  training to produce the Real-time  Emergency
Management Interactive Training System (REMITS).  REMITS is a PC-based real-time
simulation software for training EOC staff for emergency response. It is modular
in design,  versatile and scalable to the specific training  objectives.  It can
interface  with  emergency  management  software  such that the REMITS  training
environment  will be identical to the actual EOC,  thus  allowing the  emergency
staff to use and  train on the  actual  systems  they will use in the event of a
disaster. This provides the same level of stress and intensity as experienced in
a real emergency scenario.  REMITS can perform Individual Skills Training in the
familiarization  of  EOC  equipment  and  procedures  for  different   emergency
scenarios.  Leadership  training can be accomplished to teach effective  command
and control over available assets.  Finally, Team Collaboration Training enables
the staff  to train on effective  communications,  moving  resources and working
with constrained equipments and assets.

     Strategy

     GSE  is  working   closely  with   developers   of   emergency   management
communications and tasking software to embed simulation into their offerings and
thereby gain access to market  through their sales  channels.  In addition,  the
Company  teamed  with  Atlantis  Systems USA to pursue the  military  simulation
market.  Atlantis  will provide the  marketing  leadership  and the Company will
provide its simulation  technology solutions to Atlantis.  The Company sees this
as the most cost  effective  way of entering  the  military  simulation  market.

     Competition

     The  competitors  in this  market  range  from very  large  companies  like
Lockheed   Martin  and  Northrup   Grumman  to  government   defined  small  and
disadvantaged businesses such as Eshota (Indian Nation) and DEI (small, minority
owned).

     Sales and Marketing

     GSE will market its product in the U.S.  Homeland Security industry through
its  existing  sales  channels  and  foreign  markets  through   existing  power
simulation partners and agents.

Competitive Advantages

     The  Company  believes  that it is in a strong  position  to compete in the
Simulation markets based upon the following strengths:

*    Technical  and  Applications  Expertise.  GSE is a  leading  innovator  and
     developer  of  real-time  software  with more  than 30 years of  experience
     producing high fidelity real-time simulators.  As a result, the Company has
     acquired  substantial  applications  expertise in the energy and industrial
     process  industries.  The Company employs a highly educated and experienced
     multinational  workforce  of  123  employees,  including  approximately  84
     engineers and scientists.  Approximately 60% these engineers and scientists
     have  advanced  science and  technical  degrees in fields such as chemical,
     mechanical and electrical  engineering,  applied  mathematics  and computer
     sciences.

*    Proprietary  Software  Tools.  GSE has  developed a library of  proprietary
     software  tools  including  auto-code  generators  and system  models  that
     substantially   facilitate   and  expedite  the  design,   production   and
     integration,  testing and modification of software and systems. These tools
     are used to  automatically  generate the computer  code and systems  models
     required for specific functions  commonly used in simulation  applications,
     thereby  enabling it or its  customers to develop high  fidelity  real-time
     software quickly, accurately and at lower costs.

*    Open System Architecture. GSE's software products and tools are executed on
     standard  operating systems with third-party  off-the-shelf  hardware.  The
     hardware and operating  system  independence  of its software  enhances the
     value of its products by  permitting  customers  to acquire less  expensive
     hardware  and  operating  systems.  The  Company's  products  work  in  the
     increasingly  popular  Microsoft  operating   environment,   allowing  full
     utilization and integration of numerous off-the-shelf products for improved
     performance.

*    International  Strengths.  Approximately  63% of the Company's 2005 revenue
     was derived from international sales of its products and services.  GSE has
     a  multinational  sales force with offices located in Beijing,  China,  and
     Nykoping,  Sweden and agents and representatives in 22 other countries.  To
     capitalize on international  opportunities  and penetrate  foreign markets,
     the Company has  established  strategic  alliances  and  partnerships  with
     several foreign entities.

Intellectual Property.

     The  Company  depends  upon  its   intellectual   property  rights  in  its
proprietary  technology and  information.  GSE maintains a portfolio of patents,
trademarks (both registered and  unregistered),  copyrights (both registered and
unregistered),  and licenses.  While such patents,  trademarks,  copyrights  and
licenses  as a group are of  material  importance  to the  Company,  it does not
consider  any  one  patent,  trademark,  copyright,  or  license  to be of  such
importance  that the loss or  expiration  thereof  would  materially  affect any
segment or the Company as a whole.  The Company  relies  upon a  combination  of
trade secrets, copyright, patent and trademark law, contractual arrangements and
technical means to protect its intellectual property rights. GSE distributes its
software  products  under  software  license  agreements  that  grant  customers
nonexclusive  licenses for the use of its products,  which are  nontransferable.
Use of the licensed software is restricted to designated  computers at specified
sites,  unless the customer  obtains a site license of its use of the  software.
Software  and  hardware   security   measures  are  also   employed  to  prevent
unauthorized use of the Company's software, and the licensed software is subject
to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction of the software.

     The  Company  has  several  U.S.  patents  that  were  issued  in the  1996
timeframe,  none of which (individually or collectively) have a significant role
in the Company's current business  operations.  In accordance with Title 35 U.S.
Code Section 154, these patents have a duration of 20 years from the filing date
of the  application,  subject  to any  statutory  extension,  provided  they are
properly  maintained.  The Company believes that all of the Company's trademarks
(especially  those that use the phrase "GSE Systems") are valid and will have an
unlimited  duration as long as they are  adequately  protected and  sufficiently
used. The Company's  licenses are perpetual in nature and will have an unlimited
duration as long as they are adequately  protected and the parties adhere to the
material terms and conditions.

     GSE has eight  registered  U.S.  trademarks:  RETACT,  GSE  Systems,  THOR,
OpenSim,  Smart Tutor, SimSuite Pro, ESmart and GAARDS. Some of these trademarks
have  also been  registered  in  foreign  countries.  The  Company  also  claims
trademark rights to GLOW+, GLOGIC+, GCONTROL+, GPower+, SimSuite Power, SimExec,
eXtreme I/S, RACS, PEGASUS Plant Surveillance and Diagnosis System, SIMON, BRUS,
Sens Base and Vista PIN.

     In addition,  the Company maintains federal statutory copyright  protection
with respect to its software  programs and products,  has registered  copyrights
for  some of the  documentation  and  manuals  related  to these  programs,  and
maintains trade secret protection on its software products.

     Despite these protections, the Company cannot be sure that it has protected
or will be able to  protect  its  intellectual  property  adequately,  that  the
unauthorized  disclosure or use of its intellectual  property will be prevented,
that others have not or will not develop similar technology  independently,  or,
to the  extent  it owns  patents,  that  others  have not or will not be able to
design around those patents. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which
the  Company's  products are sold do not protect its  products and  intellectual
property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.

Industries Served.

     The following chart illustrates the approximate percentage of the Company's
2005, 2004, and 2003 revenues by industries served:

Contract Backlog.

     The Company  does not reflect an order in backlog  until it has  received a
contract that specifies the terms and milestone  delivery  dates. As of December
31, 2005, the Company's  aggregate contract backlog totaled  approximately $12.3
million as compared to $19.6  million as of December  31, 2004.  However,  as of
February  28, 2006,  the backlog was $29.5  million,  of which $17.0  million is
expected to be recognized as revenue in 2006.

Employees.

     As of December 31, 2005,  the Company had 123  employees as compared to 144
employees at December 31, 2004.

ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.
- -----------------------

The  Company has limited  cash  resources.  If the Company is unable to generate
adequate cash flow from operations,  it will need additional capital to fund its
operations.

     In 2005, the Company  incurred a significant  operating loss. The Company's
revenue and  profitability  were  impacted by the low volume of orders logged in
2004 and 2005 and the Company's backlog decreased from $19.6 million at December
31,  2004 to $12.3  million at  December  31,  2005.  In  addition,  the Company
continued to spend heavily on business development activities in order to expand
the Company's  simulation  business into new sectors,  such as  integrating  its
simulation   capabilities   with  broader  training  and educational   programs.
Accordingly,  the Company's cash position  weakened  during the year, with total
cash used in operating  activities  of $1.9 million.  The Company  received $2.0
million through the sale of a Senior  Subordinated  Secured  Convertible Note to
Dolphin  Direct Equity  Partners,  LP  ("Dolphin")  in May 2005, and the Company
utilized $1.2 million of its $1.5 million  credit  facility in 2005. The Company
took  actions that will reduce its  operating  expenses in 2006,  including  the
termination of a number of employees and by restructuring two facility leases.

     In order to ensure that the Company has sufficient working capital in 2006,
the Company completed several financing  transactions in early 2006. On February
28,  2006,  the Company  and Dolphin  entered  into a  Cancellation  and Warrant
Exchange Agreement (the "Cancellation Agreement ") under which Dolphin agreed to
cancel its Senior Subordinated  Secured  Convertible  Promissory Note and cancel
its  outstanding  warrant to purchase  380,952  shares of GSE common stock at an
exercise price of $2.22 per share. In exchange for Dolphin's  agreement to enter
into the  Cancellation  Agreement and for the  participation of Dolphin Offshore
Partners,  LP in the Preferred Stock  transaction  discussed  below, the Company
paid off the Dolphin Note and agreed to issue a new warrant to purchase  900,000
shares of GSE common stock at an exercise price of $0.67 per share. Dolphin must
exercise the new warrant  promptly after the Company  certifies to Dolphin on or
after May 30, 2006 (the "Mandatory  Exercise  Date") that,  among  other things,
the current stock price shall not be less than $1.25 on the  Mandatory  Exercise
Date and that the average of the current  stock  prices for each  trading day of
the 30 calendar day period up to and including  the  Mandatory  Exercise Date is
not less than $1.25.

     On February 28, 2006, the Company raised $4.25 million  through the sale of
42,500 shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Warrants by
means of a private placement to "accredited investors",  as that term is used in
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Convertible
Preferred  Stock is convertible at any time into a total of 2,401,130  shares of
GSE common stock at a conversion  price of $1.77 per share. The conversion price
was equal to 110% of the closing price of the Company's Common Stock on February
28, 2006, the date the sale of the  Convertible  Preferred  Stock was completed.
Each investor received a five-year warrant to purchase GSE common stock equal to
20% of the shares they would  received from the  conversion  of the  Convertible
Preferred  Stock,  at an exercise price of $1.77.  In total,  the Company issued
warrants to purchase a total of 480,226 shares of GSE common stock.

     The proceeds were used to payoff the Dolphin Note and the Company's line of
credit balance and for other working capital purposes.

     On  March 7,  2006,  the  Company  entered  into a new  loan  and  security
agreement  with Laurus Master Fund,  Ltd. The new  agreement  established a $5.0
million  line  of  credit  for  the  Company.  The  line  is  collateralized  by
substantially  all of the Company's assets and provides for borrowings up to 90%
of eligible accounts receivable, and 40% of eligible unbilled receivables (up to
a maximum of $1.0 million). The interest rate on this line of credit is based on
the prime rate plus 200-basis  points,  with interest only payments due monthly.

After the  completion  of the  transactions  discussed  above,  the Company
believes that it has sufficient  liquity and working  capital for its operations
in 2006.  However,  if the Company is unable to operate  profitably and generate
sufficient cash from operations,  the availability  under its new line of credit
may note be  sufficient  and the Company may be required to look for  additional
capital to fund its operations. There can be no assurance that the Company would
be successful in raising such additional funds.

     The Company's  expense levels are based upon its  expectations as to future
revenues,  so it may be unable to adjust  spending to  compensate  for a revenue
shortfall.   Accordingly,   any   revenue   shortfall   would   likely   have  a
disproportionate effect on the Company's operating results.

     The Company's  revenue was $22.0  million,  $29.5 million and $25.0 million
for the  years  ended  December  31,  2005,  2004 and  2003,  respectively.  The
Company's operating income (loss) was ($4.7 million),  $2,000 and ($1.0 million)
in 2005,  2004 and 2003,  respectively.  The  Company's  operating  results have
fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result
of a variety of factors,  including purchasing patterns,  timing of new products
and  enhancements by the Company and its  competitors,  and fluctuating  foreign
economic conditions. Since the Company's expense levels are based in part on its
expectations as to future revenues, the Company may be unable to adjust spending
in a timely  manner to  compensate  for any revenue  shortfall  and such revenue
shortfalls  would  likely have a  disproportionate  adverse  effect on operating
results.  The Company believes that these factors may cause the market price for
its common stock to fluctuate,  perhaps  significantly.  In addition,  in recent
years the stock  market in general,  and the shares of  technology  companies in
particular,  have experienced extreme price  fluctuations.  The Company's common
stock has also  experienced a relatively low trading  volume,  making it further
susceptible to extreme price fluctuations.

Risk of International Sales and Operations.

     Sales of products and the  provision  of services to end users  outside the
United States  accounted  for  approximately  63% of the Company's  consolidated
revenue in 2005. The Company  anticipates that international  sales and services
will  continue  to  account  for a  significant  portion  of its  revenue in the
foreseeable  future.  As a result,  the Company may be subject to certain risks,
including  risks  associated  with the  application and imposition of protective
legislation and regulations  relating to import or export  (including  export of
high  technology  products) or otherwise  resulting from trade or foreign policy
and risks associated with exchange rate  fluctuations.  Additional risks include
potentially  adverse  tax  consequences,  tariffs,  quotas  and other  barriers,
potential  difficulties involving the Company's strategic alliances and managing
foreign sales agents or representatives  and potential  difficulties in accounts
receivable  collection.  The  Company  currently  sells  products  and  provides
services  to customers in emerging  market  economies  such as Russia,  Ukraine,
Bulgaria,  and the Czech Republic.  Although end users in the Ukraine  accounted
for 18%, 21%, and 29% of the Company's  consolidated  revenue in 2005, 2004, and
2003,  respectively,  GSE's customer for these  projects was Battelle's  Pacific
Northwest  National  Laboratory,  which  is the  purchasing  agent  for the U.S.
Department of Energy.  The DOE provides  funding for various projects in Eastern
and Central Europe. Accordingly, the Company is not subject to the political and
financial risks that are normally faced when doing business in the Ukraine.  The
Company has taken steps designed to reduce the additional  risks associated with
doing business in these countries,  but the Company believes that such risks may
still  exist  and  include,   among  others,   general  political  and  economic
instability,  lack of  currency  convertibility,  as well  as  uncertainty  with
respect to the efficacy of applicable  legal systems.  There can be no assurance
that  these and other  factors w ill not have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.

     The  Company  relies  on one  customer  for a  substantial  portion  of its
revenue. The loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect upon the
Company's revenues and results of operations.

     For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, one Power Simulation
customer  (Battelle's  Pacific  Northwest  National  Laboratory)  accounted  for
approximately  25%, 24%, and 29%,  respectively,  of the Company's  consolidated
revenue.  The Pacific Northwest National  Laboratory is the purchasing agent for
the  Department  of Energy and the  numerous  projects  the Company  performs in
Eastern and Central  Europe.  If the Company lost this  customer,  the Company's
revenue and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.

The Company's business is substantially  dependent on sales to the nuclear power
industry.  Any disruption in this industry would have a material  adverse effect
upon the Company's revenue.

     In 2005,  83% of GSE's  revenue was from  customers  in the  nuclear  power
industry.  The  Company  will  continue to derive a  significant  portion of its
revenue from customers in the nuclear power industry for the foreseeable future.
The  Company's  ability to supply  nuclear  power plant  simulators  and related
products and services is dependent on the  continued  operation of nuclear power
plants and, to a lesser extent, on the construction of new nuclear power plants.
A wide range of factors  affect the  continued  operation  and  construction  of
nuclear power plants,  including the political and regulatory  environment,  the
availability and cost of alternative means of power  generation,  the occurrence
of future nuclear incidents, and general economic conditions.

The  Company's  debt  agreement  as of  December  31, 2005  imposes  significant
operating and financial restrictions,  which may prevent it from capitalizing on
business opportunities.

     GSE's  debt   agreement   imposes   significant   operating  and  financial
restrictions. These restrictions affect, and in certain cases limit, among other
things, the Company's ability to:

* incur additional indebtedness and liens;

* make capital expenditures;

* make investments and acquisitions and sell assets;

* consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets.

     There can be no assurance that these restrictions will not adversely affect
the  Company's  ability to finance its future  operations or capital needs or to
engage in other business activities that may be in the interest of stockholders.

The Company is dependent  on product  innovation  and research and  development,
which costs are incurred prior to revenues for new products and improvements.

     The  Company  believes  that its  success  will depend in large part on its
ability to maintain and enhance its current product line,  develop new products,
maintain  technological  competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer
needs. The Company's product development activities are aimed at the development
and expansion of its library of software  modeling tools, the improvement of its
display systems and workstation technologies,  and the advancement and upgrading
of its  simulation  technology.  The life cycles for  software  modeling  tools,
graphical user  interfaces,  and simulation  technology are variable and largely
determined  by  competitive  pressures.  Consequently,  the Company will need to
continue to make significant  investments in research and development to enhance
and expand its  capabilities  in these  areas and to  maintain  its  competitive
advantage.

The Company relies upon its intellectual  property rights for the success of its
business;  however, the steps it has taken to protect its intellectual  property
may be inadequate.

     Although the Company  believes that factors such as the  technological  and
creative skills of its personnel,  new product  developments,  frequent  product
enhancements and reliable product  maintenance are important to establishing and
maintaining a technological leadership position, the Company's business depends,
in part, on its intellectual  property rights in its proprietary  technology and
information.  The Company relies upon a combination of trade secret,  copyright,
patent and  trademark  law,  contractual  arrangements  and  technical  means to
protect   its   intellectual   property   rights.   The   Company   enters  into
confidentiality  agreements with its employees,  consultants,  joint venture and
alliance partners,  customers and other third parties that are granted access to
its  proprietary  information,  and  limits  access to and  distribution  of its
proprietary  information.  There can be no assurance,  however, that the Company
has  protected  or will  be  able to  protect  its  proprietary  technology  and
information adequately, that the unauthorized disclosure or use of the Company's
proprietary  information  will be  prevented,  that  others have not or will not
develop similar technology or information  independently,  or, to the extent the
Company owns patents,  that others have not or will not be able to design around
those patents. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which the Company's
products  are  sold do not  protect  the  Company's  products  and  intellectual
property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.

The industries in which GSE operates are highly  competitive.  This  competition
may  prevent  the  Company  from  raising  prices  at the same pace as its costs
increase.

     The Company's  businesses operate in highly  competitive  environments with
both domestic and foreign competitors,  many of whom have substantially  greater
financial, marketing and other resources than the Company. The principal factors
affecting competition include price, technological  proficiency,  ease of system
configuration, product reliability, applications expertise, engineering support,
local presence and financial stability. The Company believes that competition in
the  simulation  fields  may  further  intensify  in the  future  as a result of
advances  in  technology,   consolidations   and/or  strategic  alliances  among
competitors,  increased  costs  required  to  develop  new  technology  and  the
increasing  importance of software content in systems and products.  The Company
believes that its technology leadership,  experience,  ability to provide a wide
variety of solutions,  product support and related  services,  open architecture
and  international  alliances  will  allow it to  compete  effectively  in these
markets. As the Company's  business has a significant  international  component,
changes in the value of the dollar could adversely affect the Company's  ability
to compete internationally.

GSE will  continue to pursue new  acquisitions  and joint  ventures,  and any of
these  transactions  could adversely  affect its operating  results or result in
increased costs or other problems.

     The  Company  intends  to  continue  to pursue new  acquisitions  and joint
ventures,  a  pursuit  which  could  consume  substantial  time  and  resources.
Identifying  appropriate acquisition candidates and negotiating and consummating
acquisitions can be a lengthy and costly process. The Company may also encounter
substantial  unanticipated  costs or other problems associated with the acquired
businesses.  The risks inherent in this strategy could have an adverse impact on
the Company's results of operation or financial condition.

The nuclear power industry,  the Company's largest customer group, is associated
with a number of hazards  which could  create  significant  liabilities  for the
Company.

     The Company's  business  could expose it to third party claims with respect
to product,  environmental and other similar  liabilities.  Although the Company
has sought to protect itself from these potential  liabilities through a variety
of legal and contractual provisions as well as through liability insurance,  the
effectiveness  of such  protections  has not been fully  tested.  Certain of the
Company's products and services are used by the nuclear power industry primarily
in operator  training.  Although the  Company's  contracts for such products and
services  typically  contain  provisions  designed to protect  the Company  from
potential  liabilities  associated with such use, there can be no assurance that
the  Company  would not be  materially  adversely  affected by claims or actions
which may potentially arise.

ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

     None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

     The  Company  is  headquartered  in  a  facility  in  Baltimore,   Maryland
(approximately 20,000 square feet). The lease for this facility expires in 2008.

     In addition,  the Company leases office space  domestically  in Georgia and
internationally  in China and Sweden.  The Company  leases these  facilities for
terms ending between 2006 and 2008.

     In  conjunction  with the move of its  Process  Automation  business to its
Columbia,  Maryland  facility  in May 2003,  the Company  subleased  most of its
vacated  facility in  Baltimore,  Maryland to Alpharma USPD Inc. for a five-year
period,  although  Alpharma  could  terminate the lease at the end of the second
year provided a six-month  notice was given.  Alpharma  elected to terminate the
sublease on April 30, 2005. In May 2005,  the Company's  lease for the Baltimore
facility  was  amended to release  the Company  from its rental  obligation  for
14,000 sq.ft. of the total 34,000 sq. ft. being leased effective October 1, 2005
as the landlord had entered into a new lease with another tenant for this space.
In October 2005, the Company relocated its Maryland operations from its facility
in Columbia to the Baltimore facility.

     In October 2005,  the Company  signed an "Assignment of Lease and Amendment
to Lease" that assigns and  transfers  to another  tenant (the  "assignee")  the
Company's rights,  title and interest in its Columbia,  Maryland facility lease.
The assignee's obligation to pay rent under the Lease began on February 1, 2006.
The  Company  remains  fully  liable  for the  payment  of all  rent and for the
performance of all obligations under the lease through the scheduled  expiration
of the lease, May 31, 2008, should the assignee default on their obligations.

     In  September  2001,  the Company  entered into a sublease  agreement  with
Infonetics  (formerly  ManTech  Solutions & Technologies  Corporation)  in which
Infonetics subleased 1,432 sq. feet of space in the Columbia, Maryland facility.
The sublease terminated in October 2005.

     In September 2001, the Company entered into a sublease  agreement with MECx
(formerly ManTech Environmental Corp.) in which MECx subleased 2,088 sq. feet of
space in the Columbia,  Maryland  facility.  In October 2005,  MECx moved to the
Company's  Baltimore facility and subleased 1,234 sq. ft. of that facility until
February 2006 when the sublease was terminated.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     The Company is from time to time involved in legal  proceedings  incidental
to the conduct of its  business.  The Company  currently is not a party to legal
proceedings  that, in the opinion of  management,  are likely to have a material
adverse  effect on the  Company's  business,  financial  condition or results of
operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matter was  submitted to a vote of security  holders  during the quarter
ended December 31, 2005.

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low
sale  prices for the  Company's  common  stock  reported by the  American  Stock
Exchange:

The following table sets forth the equity compensation plan information for
the year ended  December 31, 2005:

Number of securities to       Weighted average exercise         Number of securities
                               be issued upon exercise          price of outstanding          remaining available for
                               of outstanding options,         options, warrants and           future issuance under
      Plan category              warrants and rights                   rights                equity compensation plans
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Equity compensation
plan approved by
security holders                   1,917,678                          $3.12                          368,442
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity compensation
plan not approved
by security holders                 --                                $ --                              --
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total                    1,917,678                          $3.12                          368,442

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company's common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange,  where
it trades under the symbol "GVP".

     There were  approximately  72  holders of record of the common  stock as of
March 15, 2006.  The Company has never  declared or paid a cash  dividend on its
common stock. The Company currently intends to retain future earnings to finance
the growth and development of its business and,  therefore,  does not anticipate
paying any cash  dividends in the  foreseeable  future on its common  stock.  In
December 2001, the Company issued to ManTech  International  Corp. 39,000 shares
of convertible  preferred stock which accrued  dividends at an annual rate of 6%
payable  quarterly.  ManTech  elected to convert the  preferred  stock to common
stock in October  2003.  At the date of the  conversion,  the  Company's  credit
facility  restricted  the Company  from paying any  dividends  on the  preferred
stock.  At December  31,  2005,  the Company  had accrued  dividends  payable to
ManTech of $366,000.  The unpaid  dividends  accrue interest at 6% per annum. At
December 31, 2005 the Company had an accrual for interest payable of $60,000.

     The Company believes  factors such as quarterly  fluctuations in results of
operations  and  announcements  of  new  products  by  the  Company  or  by  its
competitors may cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate, perhaps
significantly. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the
shares of technology  companies in particular,  have  experienced  extreme price
fluctuations.  The Company's  common stock has also experienced a relatively low
trading  volume,  making it further  susceptible to extreme price  fluctuations.
These  factors may  adversely  affect the market price of the  Company's  common
stock.

     On February 28, 2006, the Company raised $4.25 million  through the sale of
42,500 shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Warrants by
means of a private placement to "accredited investors",  as that term is used in
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Convertible
Preferred Stock holders are entitled to an 8% cumulative dividend,  payable on a
semiannual basis every June 20 and December 30. If the Company does not make two
consecutive  dividend payments on the dates such payments are due, there will be
an additional 30% warrant  coverage of five-year  warrants at a conversion price
of $1.77 per share.

ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA.

     Historical  consolidated  results  of  operations  and  balance  sheet data
presented  below have been derived from the historical  financial  statements of
the Company.  This  information  should be read in connection with the Company's
consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

     On June 21, 2005, the Board of Directors of GP Strategies  Corporation ("GP
Strategies")  approved  plans to  spin-off  its 57%  interest  in GSE  through a
special dividend to the GP Strategies' stockholders.  On September 30, 2005, the
GP Strategies' stockholders received 0.283075 share of GSE common stock for each
share of GP Strategies  common stock or Class B stock held on the record date of
September 19, 2005.  Following the  spin-off,  GP Strategies  ceased to have any
ownership  interest in GSE. GP  Strategies  will  continue to provide  corporate
support services to GSE, including accounting,  finance, human resources, legal,
network  support  and tax  pursuant to a  Management  Services  Agreement  which
expires on December 31, 2006.

     In 2005, the Company  incurred a significant  operating loss. The Company's
revenue and  profitability  were  impacted by the low volume of orders logged in
2004 and 2005 and the Company's backlog decreased from $19.6 million at December
31,  2004 to $12.3  million at  December  31,  2005.  In  addition,  the Company
continued to spend heavily on business development activities in order to expand
the Company's simulation business into new sectors, such as integrating its core
simulation   capability  with  broader   educational   and  training   programs.
Accordingly,  the Company's cash position  weakened  during the year, with total
cash used in operating  activities  of $1.9 million.  The Company  received $2.0
million through the sale of a Senior  Subordinated  Secured  Convertible Note to
Dolphin  Direct Equity  Partners,  LP  ("Dolphin")  in May 2005, and the Company
utilized $1.2 million of its $1.5 million  credit  facility in 2005. The Company
took  actions that will reduce its  operating  expenses in 2006,  including  the
termination of a number of employees and by restructuring two facility leases.

     In order to ensure that the Company has sufficient working capital in 2006,
the Company completed several financing  transactions in early 2006. On February
28,  2006,  the Company  and Dolphin  entered  into a  Cancellation  and Warrant
Exchange Agreement (the "Cancellation Agreement ") under which Dolphin agreed to
cancel its Senior Subordinated  Secured  Convertible  Promissory Note and cancel
its  outstanding  warrant to purchase  380,952  shares of GSE common stock at an
exercise price of $2.22 per share. In exchange for Dolphin's  agreement to enter
into the  Cancellation  Agreement and for the  participation of Dolphin Offshore
Partners,  LP in the Preferred Stock  transaction  discussed  below, the Company
paid off the Dolphin Note and agreed to issue a new warrant to purchase  900,000
shares of GSE common stock at an exercise price of $0.67 per share. Dolphin must
exercise the new warrant  promptly after the Company  certifies to Dolphin on or
after May 30, 2006 (the "Mandatory  Exercise  Date") that,  among  other things,
the current stock price shall not be less than $1.25 on the  Mandatory  Exercise
Date and that the average of the current  stock  prices for each  trading day of
the 30 calendar day period up to and including  the  Mandatory  Exercise Date is
not less than $1.25.

     On February 28, 2006, the Company raised $4.25 million  through the sale of
42,500 shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Warrants by
means of a private placement to "accredited investors",  as that term is used in
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Convertible
Preferred  Stock is convertible at any time into a total of 2,401,130  shares of
GSE common stock at a conversion  price of $1.77 per share. The conversion price
was equal to 110% of the closing price of the Company's Common Stock on February
28, 2006, the date the sale of the  Convertible  Preferred  Stock was completed.
Each investor received a five-year warrant to purchase GSE common stock equal to
20% of the shares they would  received from the  conversion  of the  Convertible
Preferred  Stock,  at an exercise price of $1.77.  In total,  the Company issued
warrants  to  purchase  a total of  480,226  shares  of GSE  common  stock.  The
Convertible  Preferred Stock holders are entitled to an 8% cumulative  dividend,
payable on a semiannual basis every June 30 and December 30. If the Company does
not make two consecutive  dividend  payments on the dates such payments are due,
there will be an  additional  30% warrant  coverage of  five-year  warrants at a
conversion  price of $1.77 per  share.  At any time  after  March 1,  2007,  the
Company has the right to convert the  Preferred  Stock into shares of GSE common
stock when the average of the current stock price during the twenty trading days
immediately  prior to the date of such  conversion  exceeds 200% of the Series A
Conversion Price. The holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to
vote on all matters submitted to the stockholders for a vote,  together with the
holders of the voting common stock,  all voting together as a single class.  The
holders of the  Convertible  Preferred Stock are entitled to the number of votes
equal to the number of GSE common stock that they would receive upon  conversion
of their Convertible Preferred Stock.

     The Company paid the placement  agent 6% of the gross proceeds  received by
the Company from the offering  ($255,000)  plus  five-year  warrants to purchase
150,000 shares of the Company's common  stock at  an exercise price of $1.77 per
share.

     The proceeds were used to payoff the Dolphin Note and the Company's line of
credit balance and for other working capital purposes.

     On  March 7,  2006,  the  Company  entered  into a new  loan  and  security
agreement  with Laurus Master Fund,  Ltd. The new  agreement  established a $5.0
million  line  of  credit  for  the  Company.  The  line  is  collateralized  by
substantially  all of the Company's assets and provides for borrowings up to 90%
of eligible accounts receivable, and 40% of eligible unbilled receivables (up to
a maximum of $1.0 million). The interest rate on this line of credit is based on
the prime rate plus 200-basis  points,  with interest only payments due monthly.
The  Company  issued to Laurus  Master  Fund,  Ltd. a warrant to  purchase up to
367,647 shares of GSE common stock at an exercise price of $.01 per share.

     After the completion of the financing  transactions  discussed  above,  the
Company  believes that it has sufficient  liquidity and working  capital for its
operations in 2006.  However, if the Company is unable to operate profitably and
generate sufficient cash from operations, the availability under its new line of
credit  may not be  sufficient  and the  Company  may be  required  to look  for
additional  capital to fund its  operations.  There can be no assurance that the
Company would be successful in raising such additional funds.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.

     As further discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in
preparing the Company's financial statements, management makes several estimates
and  assumptions   that  affect  the  Company's   reported  amounts  of  assets,
liabilities,  revenues and expenses.  Those  accounting  estimates that have the
most significant  impact on the Company's  operating  results and place the most
significant  demands on management's  judgment are discussed  below.  For all of
these policies, management cautions that future events rarely develop exactly as
forecast, and the best estimates may require adjustment.

     Revenue Recognition on Long-Term  Contracts.  The majority of the Company's
revenue is derived  through the sale of  uniquely  designed  systems  containing
hardware,   software  and  other  materials  under  fixed-price  contracts.   In
accordance  with  Statement  of Position  81-1  Accounting  for  Performance  of
Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts, the revenue under these
fixed-price contracts is accounted for on the  percentage-of-completion  method.
This  methodology  recognizes  revenue and  earnings as work  progresses  on the
contract and is based on an estimate of the revenue and earnings earned to date,
less amounts recognized in prior periods.  The Company bases its estimate of the
degree of  completion  of the contract by reviewing  the  relationship  of costs
incurred  to date to the  expected  total  costs  that will be  incurred  on the
project.  Estimated  contract earnings are reviewed and revised  periodically as
the work  progresses,  and the  cumulative  effect of any change in  estimate is
recognized in the pe riod in which the change is  identified.  Estimated  losses
are charged  against  earnings in the period  such  losses are  identified.  The
Company  recognizes  revenue arising from contract claims either as income or as
an offset  against  a  potential  loss only when the  amount of the claim can be
estimated reliably and realization is probable and there is a legal basis of the
claim.

     Uncertainties  inherent  in the  performance  of  contracts  include  labor
availability and productivity,  material costs,  change order scope and pricing,
software  modification and customer  acceptance issues. The reliability of these
cost estimates is critical to the Company's revenue recognition as a significant
change in the estimates can cause the Company's  revenue and related  margins to
change  significantly  from the  amounts  estimated  in the early  stages of the
project.

     As  the  Company  recognizes  revenue  under  the  percentage-of-completion
method,  it provides an accrual for  estimated  future  warranty  costs based on
historical and projected claims experience.  The Company's  long-term  contracts
generally provide for a one-year  warranty on parts,  labor and any bug fixes as
it relates to software embedded in the systems.

     The  Company's  system design  contracts do not provide for "post  customer
support service" (PCS) in terms of software upgrades,  software  enhancements or
telephone  support.  In order to obtain  PCS,  the  customers  must  purchase  a
separate  contract.  Such PCS  arrangements  are generally for a one-year period
renewable annually and include customer support,  unspecified software upgrades,
and maintenance  releases.  The Company  recognizes revenue from these contracts
ratably over the life of the agreements in accordance with Statement of Position
97-2 Software Revenue Recognition.

     Revenue from the sale of software licenses which do not require significant
modifications or customization  for the Company's  modeling tools are recognized
when the license agreement is signed, the license fee is fixed and determinable,
delivery has occurred, and collection is considered probable.

     Revenues from certain  consulting or training contracts are recognized on a
time-and-material  basis.  For  time-and-material  type  contracts,  revenue  is
recognized based on hours incurred at a contracted labor rate plus expenses.

Capitalization of Computer Software  Development  Costs. In accordance with
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No. 86 Accounting  for the
Costs of Computer  Software  to Be Sold,  Leased,  or  Otherwise  Marketed,  the
Company   capitalizes   computer  software   development  costs  incurred  after
technological feasibility has been established,  but prior to the release of the
software  product for sale to  customers.  Once the product is  available  to be
sold,  the Company  amortizes  the costs,  on a straight  line method,  over the
estimated  useful life of the product,  which normally ranges from three to five
years.  As of  December  31,  2005,  the Company  has net  capitalized  software
development  costs of  $940,000.  On an annual  basis,  and more  frequently  as
conditions  indicate,  the Company  assesses  the  recovery  of the  unamortized
software  computer costs by estimating the net undiscounted  cash flows expected
to be generated by the sale of the product.  If the undiscounted  cash flows are
not  sufficient  to recover the  unamortized  software  costs  the Company  will
write-down the investment to its estimated fair value based on future discounted
cash  flows.  The excess of any  unamortized  computer  software  costs over the
related  net  realizable  value is  written  down  and  charged  to  operations.
Significant  changes in the sales projections could result in an impairment with
respect  to  the  capitalized   software  that  is  reported  on  the  Company's
consolidated balance sheet.

     Deferred Income Tax Valuation  Allowance.  Deferred income taxes arise from
temporary  differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
reported  amounts  in the  financial  statements.  As  required  by SFAS No. 109
Accounting  for  Income  Taxes,  management  makes a regular  assessment  of the
realizability of the Company's  deferred tax assets.  In making this assessment,
management  considers whether it is more likely than not that some or all of the
deferred tax assets will not be realized.  The ultimate  realization of deferred
tax assets is dependent  upon the generation of future taxable income during the
periods in which  those  temporary  differences  become  deductible.  Management
considers  the  scheduled  reversal of deferred tax  liabilities  and  projected
future  taxable  income of the  Company in making this  assessment.  A valuation
allowance  is  recorded  to reduce  the total  deferred  income tax asset to its
realizable  value. As of December 31, 2005, the Company's  largest  deferred tax
asset related to a U.S. net operating loss  carryforward  of $20.4 million which
expires  in  various  amounts  over the next  twenty  years.  The amount of loss
carryforward which can be used by the Company may be significantly  limited. The
recovery of the net deferred tax asset could not be  substantiated  by currently
available objective evidence.  Accordingly,  the Company has established a $10.4
million valuation allowance for its deferred tax assets.

     Results of Operations.

     The following  table sets forth the results of  operations  for the periods
presented  expressed in  thousands  of dollars and as a  percentage  of contract
revenue.

Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2004

     Contract  Revenue.  Contract revenue  decreased 25.6% from $29.5 million in
2004 to $22.0  million in 2005  primarily as a result of a decline in orders and
lower volumes. In addition, the Company has an outstanding claim with a customer
for work performed  through  December 31, 2005 of  approximately  $265,000,  for
which $120,000 has been recognized in 2005.  Total orders logged in 2005 totaled
$15.3 million as compared to $18.9 million in 2004. As of December 31, 2005, the
Company's  backlog  was $12.3  million;  however,  as of  February  28, 2006 the
backlog was $29.5  million,  of which $17.0 million is expected to be recognized
as revenue in 2006.

     Gross Profit.  Gross profit totaled $3.3 million (15.3% of revenue) for the
year ended  December 31, 2005 as compared  with $6.8 million  (23.1% of revenue)
for the year ended  December 31,  2004.  The decline in gross profit is directly
related to a decrease in contract  revenue and certain  adjustments  made by the
Company during 2005 to the estimated costs to complete  several of its long-term
contracts,  which  resulted in a net  reduction of the  contract-to-  date gross
profit recognized of approximately $895,000 or 4% of revenue.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative   Expenses.   Selling,  general  and
administrative  ("SG&A") expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased
25.5% from the prior year;  from $5.5  million in 2004 to $7.0  million in 2005.
Business  development  costs  increased  from $2.8  million  for the year  ended
December  31,  2004 to $3.0  million  in 2005,  an 8.0%  increase.  The  Company
expanded its business  development  organization  throughout 2004 into the first
quarter of 2005,  adding an additional five employees  between the first quarter
2004 and the first  quarter  2005.  In  addition,  the Company  incurred  higher
bidding and  proposal  costs in the  pursuit of new  orders.  In order to reduce
operating expenses,  the Company terminated several of its business  development
personnel  in  mid-2005  and  reassigned  others  to  operating  positions.  The
Company's  corporate and G&A expenses increased 43.4% in 2005, from $2.5 million
in 2004 to $3.7  million  in 2005.  The  increase  reflects  severance  costs of
$301,000 in 2005 (of which $23,000 had  not been paid as of December 31,  2005),
bad debt expense of $496,000,  and the salary and benefit costs of the Company's
CEO who became a GSE  employee in December  2004.  Prior to December  2004,  the
Company was charged for the CEO's  services by GP Strategies  and his costs were
classified as GP Strategies administration fees.

     Software  and other  development  expenditures  were  $758,000  in 2005 and
$552,000 in 2004 of which  $275,000  and $191,000 was expensed in 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  The Company capitalized $483,000 of software development costs in
2005 as compared to $361,000 in 2004.  The Company's  capitalized  costs in 2005
were related to:

*    Enhancements  to JADE (Java  Applications  &  Development  Environment),  a
     Java-based  application that provides a window into the simulation  station
     and takes advantage of the web capabilities of Java,  allowing customers to
     access the simulator  and run  scenarios  from anywhere they have access to
     the web. JADE 3.0 was released in April 2005.

*    The continued  development of the Company's REMITS product used to simulate
     the  operation of Emergency  Operations  Centers (EOC) run by municipal and
     state governments.

*    The development of generic simulation models  representing the Westinghouse
     Electric Company LLC AP1000 nuclear plant design.

*    The  development  of new features for the Xflow  modeling tool for modeling
     power plant buildings.

The Company  anticipates that its total gross development  spending in 2006 will
approximate $700,000.

     Administrative Charges from GP Strategies.  On January 1, 2004, the Company
entered into a Management  Services Agreement with GP Strategies  Corporation in
which GP  Strategies  agreed  to  provide  corporate  support  services  to GSE,
including accounting,  finance, human resources, legal, network support and tax.
Expense for these  services was $685,000 in both 2005 and 2004. On September 30,
2005, GP Strategies  spun-off its 57% interest in GSE through a special dividend
to the  GP  Strategies'  stockholders.  Despite  the  spin-off,  the  Management
Services  Agreement  has been  extended  through  December  31, 2006  without an
increase. In 2004, the Company was also charged $298,000 for salary and benefits
of its CEO who was a GP Strategies employee until December 16, 2004.

     Depreciation and  Amortization.  Depreciation  expense totaled $431,000 and
$280,000 for 2005 and 2004, respectively. Due to the relocation of the Company's
Maryland operations from Columbia, Maryland to Baltimore,  Maryland, the Company
accelerated the depreciation of certain leasehold improvements in 2005.

     Operating  Income (Loss) The Company had an operating  loss of $4.7 million
(21.5% of revenue) in 2005 as compared with operating  income of $2,000 in 2004.
The 2005 operating loss was due to the factors outlined above.

     Interest Expense, Net. Net interest expense increased from $176,000 in 2004
to $416,000 in 2005.  The Company  incurred  interest  expense of $96,000 on the
Dolphin Note in 2005. Also included in 2005 interest  expense was original issue
discount accretion related to the Dolphin Note and GSE Warrant of $203,000.  See
the Liquidity and Capital Resources discussion below.

     The Company incurred interest expense of $58,000 on borrowings  against its
$1.5 million credit facility. In 2004, the Company had no borrowings against the
credit facility.

     Amortization  of  deferred  financing  costs  totaled  $37,000  in 2005 and
$111,000 in 2004.

     Other Income (Expense),  Net. Other income (expense),  net was $497,000 and
$316,000 in 2005 and 2004, respectively.

     In  conjunction  with the Dolphin Note and GSE Warrants,  the fair value of
the GSE Warrant was $375,000 and the fair value of the Conversion  Option of the
Dolphin Note was $959,000. The GSE Warrant and Conversion Option liabilities are
marked to market through  earnings on a quarterly  basis in accordance with EITF
No. 00-19,  Accounting  for  Derivative  Financial  Instruments  Indexed to, and
Potentially Settled in a Company's Common Stock. In 2005, the Company recognized
a gain of $636,000 from the change in fair market value of these  liabilities as
of December 31, 2005. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources discussion below.

     At  December  31,  2005,   the  Company  had  contracts  for  the  sale  of
approximately  247 million  Japanese Yen at fixed rates. The contracts expire on
various dates through May 2007.  The Company has not designated the contracts as
hedges and, accordingly,  has recorded the change in the estimated fair value of
the  contracts  during 2005 of ($170,000)  in other income  (expense),  net. The
estimated fair value of the contracts was $31,000 as of December 31, 2005.

     At  December  31,  2004,   the  Company  had  contracts  for  the  sale  of
approximately  435  million  Japanese  Yen at fixed  rates.  The Company has not
designated the contracts as hedges and, accordingly,  recorded the change in the
estimated fair value of the contracts of $203,000 in other income (expense).

     Provision  for Income  Taxes.  In 2005,  the  Company's  tax  provision was
$149,000 and consisted of foreign taxes of $103,000,  deferred  taxes of $50,000
and state taxes of ($4,000).  The Company has a full valuation  allowance on its
deferred tax assets.

     The  Company's  tax  provision  in 2004 was  $90,000;  $60,000  related  to
continuing  operations  and  $30,000  related to  discontinued  operations.  The
provision consisted of state taxes of $18,000,  U.S.  alternative minimum tax of
$1,000, foreign taxes of $121,000 and deferred taxes of ($50,000).

     Income  on  Sale  of  Discontinued  Operations.  Income  from  discontinued
operations  was  $36,000 in 2004  related to the  Company's  Process  Simulation
business sold in 2003.

Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2003.

     Contract  Revenue.  Revenue for the year ended  December 31, 2004 was $29.5
million  versus $25.0  million for the year ended  December  31, 2003,  an 18.0%
increase. The increase reflected the significant order volume logged in 2003.

     Gross Profit.  Gross profit  increased from $5.8 million (23.4% of revenue)
for the year ended  December 31, 2003 to $6.8 million (23.1% of revenue) for the
year ended December 31, 2004. The slight decrease in gross profit  percentage is
mainly attributable to adjustments made by the Company in the third quarter 2004
to the  estimated  costs to complete  several of its long-term  contracts  which
resulted in a net  reduction  of the  project-to-date  revenue and gross  profit
recognized  on the  projects  of  approximately  $288,000.  The  impact of these
adjustments  was  partially  offset  by:

     *    a 13.7% decrease in the Company's overhead costs in 2004 together with
          a higher  revenue  base to  recover  the  Company's  relatively  fixed
          overhead costs, and

     *    higher stand-alone  license revenue in 2004 ($1.0 million) as compared
          to the prior year ($175,000) which have higher margins than projects.

     Selling,  General  and  Administrative   Expenses.   Selling,  general  and
administrative  ("SG&A")  expenses  totaled  $5.5  million  for the  year  ended
December 31, 2004, a 12.7% decrease from the $6.3 million spent on SG&A in 2003.
Business  development  costs  increased  from $1.8  million  for the year  ended
December 31, 2003 to $2.8 million in 2004. This reflected the Company's  renewed
focus on business  development  in 2004 and the  reassignment  of four operating
personnel  into the  business  development  function  on  January  1,  2004.  In
addition, the Company hired several consultants in 2004 to assist in the bidding
and  proposal  activities  of its  new US  government  and  military  simulation
division.  The Company's  corporate and G&A expenses decreased from $4.2 million
in 2003 to $2.5 million in 2004  reflecting  the  outsourcing  of the  Company's
corporate  function to GP  Strategies  on January 1, 2004 and reduced  insurance
expense  due to the  inclusion  of the  Company  under GP  Strategies  insurance
policies.  Gross  spending   on  software  product  development  ("development")
totaled  $552,000 in the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to $856,000 in
2003. The reduction in gross development spending mainly reflects the release of
JADE  version  2.0 at the end of 2003.  JADE is a  Java-based  application  that
provides a window into the simulation  instructor station and takes advantage of
the web capabilities of Java, allowing customers to access the simulator and run
simulation scenarios from anywhere they have access to the web.

     The Company  capitalized  $361,000 of development  expenditures  in 2004 as
compared to $542,000 in 2003. The Company's  development  expenditures  in 2004,
certain of which were capitalized, were related to:

     *    The development of new functionality for the Company's Jtools software
          modeling tools.

     *    The  modification of the Company's  simulation  technology to simulate
          the operation of Emergency  Operations  Centers (EOC) run by municipal
          and state governments.

     *    The  embedding of the  Company's  full scope  simulator  software into
          classroom  training  materials by segmenting its  simulation  software
          into  "pieces" so that the software can be utilized to teach  specific
          skills in operating the nuclear  electric  utilities  without the need
          for control room panels.

     *    Additional  enhancements  to JADE  (Java  Applications  &  Development
          Environment), a Java-based application that provides a window into the
          simulation  station and takes  advantage  of the web  capabilities  of
          Java,  allowing  customers to access the  simulator  and run scenarios
          from  anywhere  they have access to the web.  JADE 3.0 was released in
          the second quarter 2005.

     Administrative Charges from GP Strategies.  On January 1, 2004, the Company
entered into a Management  Services Agreement with GP Strategies  Corporation in
which GP  Strategies  agreed  to  provide  corporate  support  services  to GSE,
including accounting,  finance, human resources, legal, network support and tax.
In addition,  GSE uses General Physics' financial system.  (General Physics is a
subsidiary  of GP  Strategies.)  In 2004,  GSE was charged  $685,000 for General
Physics'  services and $289,000 for salary and benefits of the Company's CEO who
was a GP Strategies employee until December 16, 2004.

     Depreciation  and  Amortization.  For the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003,  depreciation  expense totaled  $280,000 and $392,000,  respectively.  The
reduction reflects certain assets becoming fully depreciated.

     Operating Income (Loss).  The Company had an operating income of $2,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared with an operating loss of $991,000
(4.0% of revenue)  for the prior  year.  The  variances  were due to the factors
outlined above.

     Interest Expense,  Net. Net interest expense decreased from $504,000 in the
year ended  December 31, 2003 to $176,000 for the year ended  December 31, 2004.
Such amounts included  amortization of deferred  financing costs of $108,000 and
$111,000, respectively.

     In September 2003, the Company paid off its outstanding  bank debt from the
cash proceeds of the sale of the Process business. The interest expense incurred
on the  outstanding  bank debt in 2003 prior to the pay down was included in the
costs of the discontinued  business. The Company did not borrow against its $1.5
million credit facility in 2004.

     In March 2003, GP Strategies  extended their $1.8 million limited guarantee
of the Company's bank facility for a one-year period.  In consideration  for the
extension of the  guarantee,  the Company  issued  150,000  shares of its common
stock to GP Strategies. The number of shares was calculated based upon a 10% fee
divided by the closing price of GSE's common shares on March 21, 2003.  The cost
of the guarantee was amortized over the one-year period;  GSE recognized $45,000
of interest  expense in the first quarter 2004 which completed the  amortization
of these costs.

     Other  Income  (Expense),  Net.  At  December  31,  2004,  the  Company had
contracts for sale of approximately 435 million Japanese Yen at fixed rates. The
Company  has not  designated  the  contracts  as hedges  and,  accordingly,  has
recorded the estimated  change in the fair value of the contracts of $203,000 in
other income (expense).

     In 2003,  the Company  wrote off the balance of its  investment in RedStorm
Scientific  Inc.  ($279,000) as the Company  deemed the decline in the estimated
fair value to be other than temporary.

     Provision  for  Income  Taxes.  The  Company's  tax  provision  in 2004 was
$90,000;  $60,000  related  to  continuing  operations  and  $30,000  related to
discontinued operations. The provision consisted of state taxes of $18,000, U.S.
alternative minimum tax of $1,000,  foreign taxes of $121,000 and deferred taxes
of ($50,000).

     In 2003, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $119,000;  $93,000
related  to the  continuing  operations  and  $26,000  related  to  discontinued
operations.  The provision is comprised of foreign and state income  taxes.  The
Company had a full valuation allowance on its deferred income tax assets.

     Loss from Discontinued Operations,  net of income taxes. In September 2003,
the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of GSE Process
Solutions,  Inc.  (Process) to Novatech,  LLC.  (Novatech)  pursuant to an Asset
Purchase  Agreement,  effective  as of September  25,  2003,  by and between the
Company,  Process and Novatech.  The operating  results of the Company's Process
business prior to the sale have been  classified as  discontinued  operations in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

     For the year ended December 31, 2003, contract revenue for the discontinued
Process  business  was  $13.7  million.  Net loss for the  discontinued  Process
business in 2003 was $1.7 million.

     Loss  on  Sale  of  Discontinued  Operations,   net  of  income  taxes.  In
conjunction  with the Company's sale of its Process  business in September 2003,
the Company  received $5.5 million in cash,  subject to certain  adjustments and
recognized a loss of $262,000.  In  connection  with the  transaction,  Novatech
purchased  certain assets with a book value of $11.7 million and assumed certain
operating liabilities totaling  approximately $6.8 million. The Company incurred
approximately  $865,000  of  closing  costs  associated  with  the  transaction,
including a $100,000 accrual for possible  post-closing  claims from Novatech in
the twelve months  following the sale, as outlined in various  provisions of the
Asset Purchase  Agreement.  In the third quarter 2004,  the Company  reduced the
accrual by $66,000 to  management's  best estimate of the Company's  exposure to
loss.

Liquidity and Capital Resources.

     As of December 31, 2005, GSE had cash and cash  equivalents of $1.3 million
versus  $868,000  at  December  31,  2004.  After  completion  of the  financing
transactions  discussed  below,  the  Company  believes  that it has  sufficient
liquidity  and  working  capital for its  operations  in 2006.  However,  if the
Company  is  unable to  operate  profitably  and  generate sufficient  cash from
operations,  the availability under its new line of credit may not be sufficient
and the  Company  may be  required  to look for  additional  capital to fund its
operations.  There can be no assurance  that the Company  would be successful in
raising such additional funds.

     Cash from operating  activities.  For the year ended December 31, 2005, net
cash used in operating  activities  was $1.9 million  compared  with $393,000 in
2004. The increase of of $1.5 million was primarily  attributed to the change in
net loss of $4.8 million offset by significant  changes in the Company's  assets
and liabilities, which in 2005 include:

     *    A $1.8  decrease in contracts  receivable.  The decrease  reflects the
          combination of (a) a decrease in outstanding trade receivables of $1.0
          million due to the lower project  activity in 2005,  (b) a decrease in
          unbilled  receivables  of  $560,000  due to  the  timing  of  contract
          invoicing  milestones,  and (c) an increase in the bad debt reserve of
          $220,000.

     *    An $810 decrease in prepaid  expenses and other  assets.  The decrease
          mainly  reflects the following  items:  (a) the  amortization  of fees
          incurred in 2004  related to the issuance of project  advance  payment
          and  performance  bonds,  (b) the reduction of an advance payment to a
          subcontractor in 2004 as the subcontractor performed the related work,
          and (c) the  reduction  in the  fair  value of the  Company's  hedging
          contracts.

     For the year ended December 31, 2004, net cash used in operating activities
was $393,000; $357,000 was used by continuing operations and $36,000 was used by
discontinued  operations.  Significant  changes  in  the  Company's  assets  and
liabilities in 2004 included:

     *    a $734,000  decrease in  contracts  receivable.  The Company  invoices
          customers  upon  the  completion  of  contract-specified   milestones;
          milestone  billings were lower in the fourth  quarter 2004 compared to
          the fourth quarter 2003 due to lower contract activity.

     *    a  $547,000  reduction  in  prepaid  expenses  and other  assets.  The
          reduction  reflects  (1) lower  prepaid  insurance  expense due to the
          participation  of the  Company  in  some of GP  Strategies'  insurance
          programs,  (2) the  collection  from  Novatech of expenses paid by the
          Company on behalf of Novatech  after the sale of the Process  business
          in 2003 and (3) amortization of capitalized bank commitment fees.

     *    an increase  in accounts  payable,  accrued  compensation  and accrued
          expenses of $200,000.  The  increase  reflects the increase in project
          activity  in  2004 as  compared  to the  prior  year  and the  related
          increase in obligations to the Company's subcontractors.

     *    a decrease in billings in excess of revenues  earned by $2.8  million.
          In 2003,  the Company had entered into a $6.6 million  contract with a
          Mexican  customer for a full scope  simulator that allowed the Company
          to invoice the customer  for 20% of the  contract  upon the receipt of
          the purchase order as an advance payment. The reduction in billings in
          excess of revenues  earned  largely  reflects the  completion  of work
          which has reduced the  Company's  liability  to the  customer  for the
          advance payment.

     Net cash  provided by  operating  activities  was $1.4 million for the year
ended  December 31, 2003;  $506,000 was provided by  continuing  operations  and
$883,000  by  discontinued  operations.  Significant  changes  in the assets and
liabilities  of the  Company in 2003  included:

     *    a  $3.0  million  increase  in  contracts  receivable.  This  increase
          reflects the higher  revenue and backlog in 2003 and the completion of
          significant billing milestones at year-end.

     *    a $624,000 increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. The increase
          reflects an advance payment to a  subcontractor  by the Company on one
          of its projects and fees  incurred in the issuance of project  advance
          payment and performance bonds.

     *    a $2.1 million increase in accounts payable,  accrued compensation and
          accrued  expenses.  Due to the  increased  project  activity  in 2003,
          purchases of materials and subcontractor labor are at a higher level.

     *    a $3.3 million  increase in billings in excess of revenue earned.  The
          increase reflects the receipt of an advance payment of $1.3 million on
          one  project in 2003 and the timing of  milestone  billings on several
          other projects.

     Cash provided by (used in) investing activities. Net cash used in investing
activities  was $692,000 for the year ended  December 31, 2005. The Company made
capital  expenditures of $182,000 and capitalized  software development costs of
$483,000.  Net cash used in investing activities was $110,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2004,  consisting of $361,000 of capitalized  software  development
costs and $222,000 of capital expenditures, offset by the expiration of stand-by
letters  of credit  for which the  $473,000  of cash  collateral  was  released.
Standby  letters of credit are issued by the Company in the  ordinary  course of
business   through   banks  as  required  by  certain  contracts   and  proposal
requirements.

     Net cash used in investing  activities for the year ended December 31, 2003
was $3.7 million;  $4.2 million  provided by continuing  operations and $506,000
used by discontinued operations.

     The $3.7 million  provided by continuing  operations  included $5.2 million
proceeds from the sale of the Process  business unit, net of transaction  costs,
offset by $515,000 in cash payments of contingent consideration for a prior year
acquisition,  $191,000 of capital  expenditures,  and  $542,000  of  capitalized
software  development  costs.  Additionally,  $245,000  of  cash  collateralized
stand-by letters of credit expired,  and the cash collateral was released.

     Cash  provided  by (used  in)  financing  activities.  For the  year  ended
December 31, 2005,  the Company  generated  $3.1 million in cash from  financing
activities.  The  Company  borrowed  $1,182,000  from its bank  line of  credit,
generated  $100,000 from the exercise of employee stock  options,  and issued to
Dolphin Direct Equity Partners,  LP a Senior  Subordinated  Secured  Convertible
Note in the  aggregate  principle  amount fo  $2,000,000.  The Company  incurred
$197,000 of deferred financing costs related to the Dolphin Note and paid down a
note payable of $9,000.

     For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company used $33,000 in financing
activities related to the pay down of a note payable.

     For the year ended December 31, 2003, cash used in financing activities was
$5.5 million,  all of which was used in the continuing  operations.  The Company
decreased its borrowings  under its bank line of credit by $5.4 million from the
proceeds  received  from the sale of the Process  business.

Credit Facilities.

     Prior to March 7, 2006 and as of December 31, 2005,  the Company had a $1.5
million credit  facility  through General  Physics  Corporation,  a wholly owned
subsidiary of GP Strategies. The line was collateralized by substantially all of
the Company's assets and provided for borrowings up to 80% of eligible  accounts
receivable and 80% of eligible unbilled  receivables.  GP Strategies  guaranteed
the  borrowings.  The  interest  rate on this line of credit  was based upon the
Daily LIBOR  Market  Index Rate plus 3% (7.38% as of December  31,  2005),  with
interest  only  payments due monthly.  As of December  31, 2005,  the  Company's
outstanding borrowings were $1,182,000 which were repaid on March 7, 2006.

     On  March 7,  2006,  the  Company  entered  into a new  loan  and  security
agreement  with Laurus Master Fund,  Ltd. The new  agreement  established a $5.0
million  line  of  credit  for  the  Company.  The  line  is  collateralized  by
substantially  all of the Company's assets and provides for borrowings up to 90%
of eligible accounts receivable, and 40% of eligible unbilled receivables (up to
a maximum of $1.0 million). The interest rate on this line of credit is based on
the prime rate plus 200-basis  points,  with interest only payments due monthly.
There  are no  financial  covenant  requirements  under the new  agreement.

     The Company issued to Laurus Master Fund,  Ltd. a warrant to purchase up to
367,647 shares of GSE common stock at an exercise price of $.01 per share.

     The Company borrowed $747,000 on March 8, 2006.  Availability under the new
agreement on that date was $1.6 million.

Senior Convertible Secured Subordinated Note Payable

     On May 26, 2005, GSE issued and sold to Dolphin Direct Equity Partners,  LP
a Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Note in the aggregate principal amount
of  $2,000,000,  which  matures  March 31,  2009  (the  "Dolphin  Note"),  and a
seven-year warrant to purchase 380,952 shares of GSE common stock at an exercise
price of $2.22 per share (the "GSE  Warrant").  The Dolphin Note is  convertible
into  1,038,961  shares of GSE common stock at a conversion  price of $1.925 per
share and accrues  interest at 8% payable  quarterly.  Both the convertible note
and the warrant are subject to anti-dilution provisions.  The aggregate purchase
price  for the  Dolphin  Note and GSE  Warrant  was  $2,000,000.  At the date of
issuance,  the fair value of the GSE Warrant was  $375,000 and the fair value of
the  Conversion  Option of the  Dolphin  Note was  $959,000,  both of which were
recorded as noncurrent  liabilities,  with the offset recorded as original issue
discount (OID). OID is accreted over the term of the Dolphin Note and charged to
interest  expense,  and the unamortized balance is netted against long-term debt
in the accompanying  consolidated balance sheets. The GSE Warrant and Conversion
Option liabilities are marked to market through earnings on a quarterly basis in
accordance with EITF NO. 00-19,  Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments
Indexed to, and Potentially  Settled in a Company's  Common Stock.  For the year
ended  December 31,  2005,  the Company  recognized a gain of $636,000  from the
change in the fair value of these  liabilities.  The gain is  recorded  in other
income (expense), net.

     On February 28, 2006,  the Company and Dolphin  entered into a Cancellation
and Warrant  Exchange  Agreement  (the  "Cancellation  Agreement"  ) under which
Dolphin agreed to cancel its Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible  Promissory
Note and cancel its outstanding warrant to purchase 380,952 shares of GSE common
stock at an  exercise  price of $2.22  per  share.  In  exchange  for  Dolphin's
agreement to enter into the Cancellation  Agreement and for the participation of
Dolphin  Offshore  Partners,  LP in the Preferred  Stock  transaction  discussed
below,  the Company  paid off the Dolphin Note and agreed to issue a new warrant
to purchase  900,000 shares of GSE common stock at an exercise price of $.67 per
share.  Dolphin  must  exercise  the new  warrant  promptly  after  the  Company
certifies to Dolphin on or after May 30, 2006 (the  "Mandatory  Exercise  Date")
that,  among other things,  the current stock price shall not be less than $1.25
on the Mandatory  Exercise Date and that the average of the current stock prices
for each trading  day of  the 30  calendar  day period up to and  including  the
Mandatory Exercise Date is not less than $1.25.

Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock

     On February 28, 2006, the Company raised $4.25 million  through the sale of
42,500 shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Warrants by
means of a private placement to "accredited investors",  as that term is used in
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Convertible
Preferred  Stock is convertible at any time into a total of 2,401,130  shares of
GSE common stock at a conversion  price of $1.77 per share. The conversion price
was equal to 110% of the closing price of the Company's Common Stock on February
28, 2006, the date the sale of the  Convertible  Preferred  Stock was completed.
Each investor received a five-year warrant to purchase GSE common stock equal to
20% of the shares they would  receive  from the  conversion  of the  Convertible
Preferred Stock, at an exercise price of $1.77. In aggregate, the Company issued
warrants  to  purchase  a total of  480,226  shares  of GSE  common  stock.  The
Convertible  Preferred Stock holders are entitled to an 8% cumulative  dividend,
payable on a semiannual basis every June 30 and December 30. If the Company does
not make two consecutive  dividend  payments on the dates such payments are due,
there will be an  additional  30% warrant  coverage of  five-year  warrants at a
conversion  price of $1.77 per  share.  At any time  after  March 1,  2007,  the
Company has the right to convert the  Preferred  Stock into shares of GSE common
stock when the average of the current stock price during the twenty trading days
immediately  prior to the date of such  conversion  exceeds 200% of the Series A
Conversion Price. The holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to
vote on all matters submitted to the stockholders for a vote,  together with the
holders of the voting common stock,  all voting together as a single class.  The
holders of the  Convertible  Preferred Stock are entitled to the number of votes
equal to the number of GSE common stock that they would receive upon  conversion
of their Convertible Preferred Stock.

     The Company paid the placement  agent 6% of the gross proceeds  received by
the Company from the offering  ($255,000)  plus  five-year  warrants to purchase
150,000  shares of the Company's  common stock at an exercise price of $1.77 per
share.

     The proceeds were used to payoff the Dolphin Note and the Company's line of
credit balance and for other working capital purposes.

Contractual Cash Commitments

     The following  summarizes the Company's  contractual cash obligations as of
December 31, 2005, and the effect these  obligations are expected to have on its
liquidity and cash flow in future periods:

(1) On February 28, 2006, the Company raised $4.25 million through the sale
     of 42,500  shares of Series A Cumulative  Convertible  Preferred  Stock and
     Warrants by means of a private placement to "accredited investors", as that
     term is used in  rules  and  regulations  of the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission. The proceeds were used to pay off the $2.0 million Dolphin Note
     and the Company's $1.2 million line of credit balance and for other working
     capital purposes.  The Convertible  Preferred Stock holders are entitled to
     an 8% cumulative dividend,  payable on a semiannual basis every June 30 and
     December 30. If the Company does not make two consecutive dividend payments
     on the dates such payments are due, there will be an additional 30% warrant
     coverage of five-year warrants at a conversion price of $1.77 per share.

In October 2005,  the Company  signed an "Assignment of Lease and Amendment
to Lease" that assigns and  transfers  to another  tenant (the  "assignee")  the
Company's rights,  title and interest in its Columbia,  Maryland facility lease.
The assignee's obligation to pay rent under the Lease began on February 1, 2006.
The  Company  remains  fully  liable  for the  payment  of all  rent and for the
performance of all obligations under the lease through the scheduled  expiration
of the lease, May 31, 2008, should the assignee default on their obligations.

     As of  December  31,  2005,  the Company  was  contingently  liable for two
letters of credit  totaling  $66,000.  The letters of credit  represent  payment
bonds on two  contracts  and have been cash  collateralized.  In  addition,  the
Company was contingently  liable at December 31, 2005 for approximately  $30,000
under a performance  bond on one contract  which was secured by a bank guarantee
of the Company's foreign subsidiary.

Foreign Exchange.

     A portion of the Company's  international sales revenue has been and may be
received in a currency other than the currency in which the expenses relating to
such revenue are paid. When necessary,  the Company enters into forward exchange
contracts,  options  and swap  agreements  as  hedges  against  certain  foreign
currency commitments to hedge its foreign currency risk.

Off-balance Sheet Obligations.

     The Company has no off-balance  sheet  obligations as of December 31, 2005,
except for its operating lease  commitments  and outstanding  letters of credit.
See Contractual Cash Commitments above.

New Accounting Standards.

     In December  2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R which revises SFAS No. 123
and supersedes APB No. 25. Currently,  the Company does not record  compensation
expense for certain stock-based  compensation.  Under SFAS No. 123R, the Company
will measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for stock, based
on the grant-date fair value with limited  exceptions) of the stock award.  Such
cost will be recognized over the period during which the employee is required to
provide  service in exchange for the stock award  (usually the vesting  period).
The fair value of the stock  award  will be  estimated  using an  option-pricing
model,  with excess tax benefits,  as defined in SFAS No. 123R, being recognized
as an adjustment to additional  paid-in  capital.  The Company  adopted SFAS No.
123R on  January  1, 2006  using the  Modified  Prospective  Application  method
without restatement of prior periods.  Under this method, the Company recognizes
compensation  cost for the unvested fair value of its  outstanding  awards as of
Janua ry 1, 2006.  Compensation  cost for these awards will be based on the fair
value of the awards as  disclosed  on a pro forma basis under SFAS No. 123.  The
Company will account for awards that are granted, modified, or settled after the
adoption date in accordance with SFAS No. 123R.

     At December 31, 2005,  all of the Company's  outstanding  options are fully
vested  and thus there will be no  compensation  expense in 2006  related to the
adoption of SFAS No.  123R.  The Company  has not yet  developed  an estimate of
compensation  expense  related to future  grants of stock  options,  which would
result in additional expense under SFAS No. 123R.

Other Matters.

     To date, management believes inflation has not had a material impact on the
Company's operations.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     The  Company's  market risk is  principally  confined to changes in foreign
currency  exchange  rates.  During the year ended  December 31, 2005, 14% of the
Company's revenue was from contracts which required payments in a currency other
than U.S. Dollars, principally Swedish Krona (6%) and Japanese Yen (8%). For the
year  ended  December  31,  2004,  3%  and  13%  of the  Company's  revenue  was
denominated in Swedish Krona and Japanese Yen, respectively. In addition, during
the years ended  December 31, 2005 and 2004, 13% and 16%,  respectively,  of the
Company's  expenses were incurred in Swedish  Krona.  The Company's  exposure to
foreign exchange rate fluctuations arises in part from inter-company accounts in
which costs  incurred in one entity are charged to other  entities in  different
foreign  jurisdictions.  The Company is also  exposed to foreign  exchange  rate
fluctuations as the financial results of all foreign subsidiaries are translated
into U.S. dollars in  consolidation.  As exchange rates vary, those results when
tra nslated may vary from  expectations  and adversely  impact overall  expected
profitability.

     The Company  utilizes  forward foreign  currency  financial  instruments to
manage  market  risks  associated  with the  fluctuations  in  foreign  currency
exchange  rates.  It  is  the  Company's  policy  to  use  derivative  financial
instruments  to protect  against  market  risk  arising in the normal  course of
business. The criteria the Company uses for designating an instrument as a hedge
include the instrument's effectiveness in risk reduction and one-to-one matching
of derivative instruments to underlying  transactions.  The Company monitors its
foreign currency exposures to maximize the overall  effectiveness of its foreign
currency hedge positions. The principal currency hedged is the Japanese yen. The
Company's objectives for holding derivatives are to minimize the risks using the
most  effective  methods to reduce the impact of these  exposures.  The  Company
minimizes credit exposure by limiting  counterparties  to nationally  recognized
financial institutions.

     As of  December  31,  2005,  the  Company  had  contracts  for the  sale of
approximately  247 million  Japanese Yen at fixed rates. The contracts expire on
various dates through May 2007.  The Company has not designated the contracts as
hedges and, accordingly,  has recorded the estimated fair value of the contracts
of $31,000 as of December  31, 2005.  The Company  recognized  unrealized  gains
(losses)  of   approximately   ($170,000)   and   $203,000  in  2005  and  2004,
respectively, on these contracts.

     The Company is also subject to market risk related to the interest  rate on
its existing  line of credit.  As of December 31, 2005,  such  interest  rate is
based  on the  Daily  Libor  Market  Index  Rate  plus 300  basis-points.  A 100
basis-point  change in such rate during the year ended  December  31, 2005 would
have  increased   (decreased)   the  Company's   annual   interest   expense  by
approximately $8,000.

     On May 26, 2005, GSE issued and sold to Dolphin Direct Equity Partners,  LP
a Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Note in the aggregate principle amount
of  $2,000,000,  which  matures  March 31,  2009,  and a  seven-year  warrant to
purchase  380,952  shares of GSE common stock at an exercise  price of $2.22 per
share. The Dolphin Note is convertible into 1,038,961 shares of GSE common stock
at a  conversion  price of $1.925 per share and  accrues  interest at 8% payable
quarterly.   Both  the   convertible   note  and  the  warrant  are  subject  to
anti-dilution provisions.  The aggregate purchase price for the Dolphin Note and
GSE Warrant was $2,000,000.  At the date of issuance,  the fair value of the GSE
Warrant was $375,000 and the fair value of the Conversion  Option of the Dolphin
Note was $959,000, both of which were recorded as noncurrent  liabilities,  with
the offset  recorded  as  original  issue  discount  (OID).  The GSE Warrant and
Conversion  Option  liabilities  are  marked to  market  through  earnings  on a
quarterly  basis in accordance  with EITF No. 00-19,  Accounting  for Derivative
Financial  Insturments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in a Company's Common
Stock.  For the year ended December 31, 2005,  the Company  recognized a gain of
$636,000 from the change in fair market value of these liabilities from the date
of issue to December 31, 2005.  The closing price of the Company's  common stock
on December  31, 2005 as reported by the American  Stock  Exchange was $1.24 per
share.  If the closing  price had been $1.34 or $1.14 at December 31, 2005,  the
gain  recognized  by the Company  from the change in fair market  value of these
liabilities would have been $549,000 and $738,0000, respectively.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Page
GSE Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm....................F-1
  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004...............F-2
  Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
        December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003....................................F-3
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years
        ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003..............................F-4
  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the years
        ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003..............................F-5
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
        December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003....................................F-6
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.................................F-7

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
GSE Systems, Inc.:

We  have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets  of GSE
     Systems,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
     related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss),
     changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the
     three-year  period ended December 31, 2005.  These  consolidated  financial
     statements  are  the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.   Our
     responsibility  is to express an  opinion on these  consolidated  financial
     statements based on our audits.

     We  conducted  our audits in  accordance  with the  standards of the Public
     Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
     that we plan and perform  the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about
     whether the  financial  statements  are free of material  misstatement.  An
     audit includes examining,  on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
     and  disclosures  in the  financial  statements.  An  audit  also  includes
     assessing the accounting  principles used and significant estimates made by
     management,   as  well  as  evaluating  the  overall  financial   statement
     presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
     opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
     present fairly,  in all material  respects,  the financial  position of GSE
     Systems,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
     results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the years in
     the  three-year  period  ended  December 31, 2005 in  conformity  with U.S.
     generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ KPMG LLP

     Baltimore, Maryland
     March 29, 2006

1.  Business and basis of presentation

     GSE Systems,  Inc. ("GSE  Systems",  "GSE" or the  "Company")  develops and
delivers  business and  technology  solutions by applying  simulation  software,
systems and services to the energy industry worldwide.

     On June 21, 2005, the Board of Directors of GP Strategies  Corporation ("GP
Strategies")  approved  plans to  spin-off  its 57%  interest  in GSE  through a
special dividend to the GP Strategies' stockholders.  On September 30, 2005, the
GP Strategies' stockholders received 0.283075 share of GSE common stock for each
share of GP Strategies  common stock or Class B stock held on the record date of
September 19, 2005.  Following the  spin-off,  GP Strategies  ceased to have any
ownership  interest in GSE. GP  Strategies  will  continue to provide  corporate
support services to GSE, including accounting,  finance, human resources, legal,
network  support  and tax  pursuant to a  Management  Services  Agreement  which
expires on December 31, 2006.

     The Company's  operations  are subject to certain  risks and  uncertainties
including,  among others, rapid technological changes,  success of the Company's
product development,  marketing and distribution strategies,  the need to manage
growth, the need to retain key personnel and protect intellectual  property, and
the availability of additional financing on terms acceptable to the Company.

     In September 2003, the Company  completed the sale of substantially  all of
the assets of GSE Process Solutions,  Inc. (Process) to Novatech, LLC (Novatech)
pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, effective as of September 25, 2003. The
operating  results of the Company's  Process  business  have been  classified as
discontinued  operations in the  Consolidated  Statements of Operations  for all
periods presented.

     In 2005, the Company  incurred a significant  operating loss. The Company's
revenue and  profitability  were  impacted by the low volume of orders logged in
2004 and 2005 and the Company's  cash position  weakened  during the year,  with
total cash used in operating activities of $1.9 million. After the completion of
the financing  transactions  discussed in Note 19 Subsequent events, the Company
believes that it has sufficient liquidity and working capital for its operations
in 2006.  However,  if the  Company is unable to generate  sufficient  cash from
operations,  the availability under its new line of credit may not be sufficient
and the  Company  may be  required  to look for  additional  capital to fund its
operations.  There can be no assurance  that the Company  would be successful in
raising such additional funds.

2.  Summary of significant accounting policies

Principles of consolidation

     The accompanying  consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
the Company and its wholly-owned  subsidiaries.  All  intercompany  balances and
transactions have been eliminated.

Accounting estimates

     The  preparation  of financial  statements  in conformity  with  accounting
principles   generally  accepted  in  the  United  States  of  America  requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and  liabilities  and disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial  statements  and the reported  amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period.  The Company's most significant  estimates
relate to revenue recognition, capitalization of software development costs, and
the  recoverability  of deferred tax assets.  Actual  results  could differ from
those estimates.

Revenue recognition

     The  majority  of the  Company's  revenue  is derived  through  the sale of
uniquely  designed  systems  containing  hardware,  software and other materials
under  fixed-price  contracts.  In  accordance  with  Statement of Position 81-1
Accounting for  Performance  of  Construction-Type  and Certain  Production-Type
Contracts, the revenue under these fixed-price contracts is accounted for on the
percentage-of-completion   method.  This  methodology   recognizes  revenue  and
earnings as work  progresses  on the contract and is based on an estimate of the
revenue and earnings earned to date,  less amounts  recognized in prior periods.
The Company  bases its estimate of the degree of  completion  of the contract by
reviewing the relationship of costs incurred to date to the expected total costs
that will be incurred on the project.  Estimated  contract earnings are reviewed
and revised  periodically as the work progresses,  and the cumulative  effect of
any  change in  estimate  is  recognized  in the  period in which the  change is
identified.  Estima ted losses are charged  against  earnings in the period such
losses are  identified.  The Company  recognizes  revenue  arising from contract
claims either as income or as an offset  against a potential  loss only when the
amount of the claim can be estimated  reliably and  realization  is probable and
there is a legal basis of the claim. The Company has an outstanding claim with a
customer  for  work   performed  through  December  31,  2005  of  approximately
$265,000, for which $120,000 has been recognized in 2005.

     As  the  Company  recognizes  revenue  under  the  percentage-of-completion
method,  it provides an accrual for  estimated  future  warranty  costs based on
historical and projected claims experience.  The Company's  long-term  contracts
generally provide for a one-year  warranty on parts,  labor and any bug fixes as
it relates to software embedded in the systems.

     The  Company's  system design  contracts do not provide for "post  customer
support service" (PCS) in terms of software upgrades,  software  enhancements or
telephone  support.  In order to obtain  PCS,  the  customers  must  purchase  a
separate  contract.  Such PCS  arrangements  are generally for a one-year period
renewable annually and include customer support,  unspecified software upgrades,
and maintenance  releases.  The Company  recognizes revenue from these contracts
ratably over the life of the agreements in accordance with Statement of Position
97-2 Software Revenue Recognition.

     Revenue from the sale of software licenses which do not require significant
modifications or customization  for the Company's  modeling tools are recognized
when the license agreement is signed, the license fee is fixed and determinable,
delivery has occurred, and collection is considered probable.

     Revenues from certain  consulting or training contracts are recognized on a
time-and-material  basis.  For  time-and-material  type  contracts,  revenue  is
recognized based on hours incurred at a contracted labor rate plus expenses.

Cash and cash equivalents

     Cash and cash  equivalents  consist  of cash on hand  and  overnight  sweep
investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase.

Contract Receivables

     Contract  receivables  include  recoverable  costs and  accrued  profit not
billed which  represents  revenue  recognized in excess of amounts  billed.  The
liability, "Billings in excess of revenue earned," represents billings in excess
of revenue recognized.

     Billed  receivables  are recorded at invoiced  amounts.  The  allowance for
doubtful   accounts  is  based  on  historical  trends  of  past  due  accounts,
write-offs,  and specific  identification  and review of past due accounts.  The
activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts is as follows:

Equipment and leasehold improvements, net

     Equipment  is  recorded  at cost and  depreciated  using the  straight-line
method with  estimated  useful lives ranging from three to ten years.  Leasehold
improvements  are amortized  over the life of the lease or the estimated  useful
life,  whichever  is  shorter,  using  the  straight-line  method.  Upon sale or
retirement, the cost and related amortization are eliminated from the respective
accounts and any resulting gain or loss is included in  operations.  Maintenance
and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.

Software development costs

     Certain  computer  software   development  costs  are  capitalized  in  the
accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets  in  accordance  with  SFAS No.  86,
Accounting for the Costs of Computer  Software to be Sold,  Leased, or Otherwise
Marketed.  Capitalization of computer software development costs begins upon the
establishment   of   technological   feasibility.   Capitalization   ceases  and
amortization  of  capitalized   costs  begins  when  the  software   product  is
commercially  available  for  general  release  to  customers.  Amortization  of
capitalized  computer software  development costs is included in cost of revenue
and is provided  using the  straight-line  method over the  remaining  estimated
economic life of the product, not to exceed five years.

Development expenditures

     Development  expenditures  incurred to meet customer  specifications  under
contracts  are  charged  to  contract  costs.   Company  sponsored   development
expenditures  are charged to operations as incurred and are included in selling,
general and administrative  expenses. The amounts incurred for Company sponsored
development  activities relating to the development of new products and services
or the  improvement  of  existing  products  and  services,  were  approximately
$758,000,  $552,000,  and $856,000,  for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003,  respectively.  Certain  of these  expenditures  were  capitalized  as
software development costs. See Note 7, Software development costs.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

     In accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
of  Lond-Lived  Assets,  property and  equiptment  are  reviewed for  impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of
an asset  may not be  recoverable.  Recovery  of  assets  to be held and used is
measured  by a  comparison  of the  carrying  amount of an  asset  to  estimated
undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount
by which the carrying  amount of the asset  exceeds the fair value of the asset.
Assets to be disposed of would be separately  presented in the balance sheet and
reported at the lower of the  carrying  amount or fair value less costs to sell,
and are no longer  depreciated.  The assets and  liabilities of a disposal group
classified  as held for sale would be presented  separately  in the  appropriate
asset and liability sections of the balance sheet.

     Goodwill  is tested  annually,  on  November  30, for  impairment,  or more
frequently  if  events  and  circumstances  indicate  that  the  asset  might be
impaired.  An  impairment  loss is  recognized  to the extent that the  carrying
amount   exceeds  the  asset's  fair  value.   For  goodwill,   the   impairment
determination  is made at the  reporting  unit level and  consists of two steps.
First, the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit and compares it
to its  carrying  amount.  Second,  if the carrying  amount of a reporting  unit
exceeds its fair value,  an impairment  loss is recognized for any excess of the
carrying  amount  of the  goodwill.  The  implied  fair  value  of  goodwill  is
determined  by  allocating  the  fair  value of the  reporting  unit in a manner
similar  to a  purchase  price  allocation,  in  accordance  with SFAS No.  141,
Business  Combinations.  The residual  fair value after this  allocation  is the
implied fair value of the reporting  unit  goodwill.  No impairment  losses were
recognized in 2005, 2004, and 2003.

Foreign currency translation

     Balance  sheet  accounts  for  foreign  operations  are  translated  at the
exchange  rate at the balance  sheet date,  and income  statement  accounts  are
translated  at  the  average  exchange  rate  for  the  period.   The  resulting
translation  adjustments  are  included in other  comprehensive  income  (loss).
Transaction  gains and losses,  resulting  from changes in exchange  rates,  are
included in other income (expense) in the Consolidated  Statements of Operations
in the period in which they occur.  For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004,
and  2003,  foreign  currency  transaction  gains  (losses)  were  approximately
($35,000), $52,000, and $5,000, respectively.

Warranty

     As  the  Company  recognizes  revenue  under  the  percentage of-completion
method,  it provides an accrual for  estimated  future  warranty  costs based on
historical  experience  and  projected  claims.  The  activity  in the  warranty
accounts is as follows:

Income taxes

     Deferred  income taxes are provided  under the asset and liability  method.
Under this method, deferred income taxes are determined based on the differences
between the financial  statement and tax bases of assets and  liabilities  using
enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the  differences  are expected
to reverse.  Valuation  allowances  are  established  when  necessary  to reduce
deferred tax assets to the amounts  expected to be  realized.  Provision is made
for the Company's current liability for federal,  state and foreign income taxes
and the change in the Company's  deferred income tax assets and liabilities.  No
provision has been made for the undistributed  earnings of the Company's foreign
subsidiaries   as  they  are  considered   permanently   invested.   Amounts  of
undistributed  earnings are not material to the overall  consolidated  financial
statements.

Stock Compensation

     The  Company  applies  the   intrinsic-value-based   method  of  accounting
prescribed by Accounting  Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for
stock  issued  to  Employees,   and  related   interpretations   including  FASB
Interpretation  No. 44,  Accounting  for Certain  Transactions  involving  Stock
Compensation, and interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25, issued in March 2000, to
account  for its  fixed-plan  stock  options.  Under this  method,  compensation
expense is recorded on the date of grant only if the current market price of the
underlying  stock  exceeds the  exercise  price.  SFAS No. 123,  Accounting  for
Stock-Based  Compensation,  established  accounting and disclosure  requirements
using  a  fair-value-based   method  of  accounting  for  stock  based  employee
compensation  plans.  As allowed by SFAS No.  123,  the  Company  has elected to
continue to apply the intrinsic-value-based method of accounting describe above,
and has adopted only the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123.

     If the  computed  values  of all the  Company's  stock  based  awards  were
calculated  and expensed  (over the vesting period of the awards) using the fair
value method  specified  under SFAS 123,  net income  (loss) would have been as
follows:

Options with an average exercise price of $1.85 covering a total of 600,000
shares of common stock were granted to 47 employees in March 2005,  all of which
vested immediately. No employee stock options were issued in 2004 or 2003.

     The fair value of each option  granted in 2005 was estimated on the date of
grant   using  a   Black-Scholes   option-pricing   model  with  the   following
weighted-average assumptions:

Income (loss) per share

     Basic income  (loss) per share is based on the weighted  average  number of
outstanding  common  shares  for the  period.  Diluted  income  (loss) per share
adjusts the weighted average shares  outstanding for the potential dilution that
could  occur  if  stock  options,  warrants,  convertible  subordinated  debt or
convertible  preferred stock were exercised or converted into common stock.  The
number of common shares and common share  equivalents used in the  determination
of basic and diluted income (loss) per share was as follows:

Conversion of the stock options, warrants and convertible subordinated debt
was not  assumed  for the years ended  December  31,  2005 and 2003  because the
impact was anti-dilutive. The difference between the basic and diluted number of
weighted  average  shares  outstanding  for the year  ended  December  31,  2004
represents  dilutive  stock  options and  warrants to purchase  shares of common
stock computed  under the treasury stock method,  using the average market price
during  the  period.  The net loss  for the year  ended  December  31,  2003 was
decreased by preferred  stock  dividends  and related  charges of  $2,140,000 in
calculating the per share amounts. The preferred stock was converted into common
stock on October 23, 2003.

Concentration of credit risk

     The  Company is subject to  concentration  of credit  risk with  respect to
contract  receivables.  Credit risk on contract  receivables is mitigated by the
nature of the Company's  worldwide  customer base and its credit  policies.  The
Company's  customers are not concentrated in any specific geographic region, but
are concentrated in the energy industry.  For the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003,  one customer  accounted  for  approximately  25%,  24%, and 29%,
respectively,  of the Company's revenue.  As of December 31, 2005, the contracts
receivable  balance related to this significant  customer was approximately $1.0
million,  or 15% of contract  receivables,  of which  $501,000  was  unbilled at
year-end.

Fair values of financial instruments

     The carrying amounts of current assets, current liabilities,  and long-term
debt reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets approximate fair value.

Derivative Instruments

     The Company  utilizes foreign  currency  forward  financial  instruments to
manage  market  risks  associated  with the  fluctuations  in  foreign  currency
exchange  rates.  It  is  the  Company's  policy  to  use  derivative  financial
instruments  to protect  against  market  risk  arising in the normal  course of
business. The criteria the Company uses for designating an instrument as a hedge
include the instrument's effectiveness in risk reduction and one-to-one matching
of derivative instruments to underlying  transactions.  The Company monitors its
foreign currency exposures to maximize the overall  effectiveness of its foreign
currency hedge positions.  Principal  currencies hedged include the Euro and the
Japanese Yen. The Company's  objectives for holding  derivatives are to minimize
the risks  using  the most  effective  methods  to  reduce  the  impact of these
exposures.  The Company minimizes credit exposure by limiting  counterparties to
nationally recognized financial institutions.

     All derivatives,  whether  designated as hedging  relationships or not, are
recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.  If the derivative is designated as
a fair value hedge,  the changes in the fair value of the  derivative and of the
hedged item  attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings.  If the
derivative is  designated as a cash flow hedge,  the change in the fair value of
the  derivative  and of the hedged  item are  recognized  as an element of other
comprehensive income.

     As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had contracts for the sale of
approximately 247 million and 435 million Japanese Yen,  respectively,  at fixed
rates.  The contracts  expire on various dates through May 2007. The Company has
not  designated  the  contracts  as hedges and,  accordingly,  has  recorded the
estimated fair value of the contracts of $31,000 and $203,000 as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively, as an other asset in the consolidated balance sheet
and other income (expense) in the consolidated statement of operations.

Reclassifications

     Certain  reclassifications  have been made to prior year amounts to conform
with the current year presentation.

New Accounting Standards

     In December  2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R which revises SFAS No. 123
and supersedes APB No. 25. Currently,  the Company does not record  compensation
expense for certain stock-based  compensation.  Under SFAS No. 123R, the Company
will measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for stock, based
on the grant-date fair value with limited  exceptions) of the stock award.  Such
cost will be recognized over the period during which the employee is required to
provide  service in exchange for the stock award  (usually the vesting  period).
The fair value of the stock  award  will be  estimated  using an  option-pricing
model,  with excess tax benefits,  as defined in SFAS No. 123R, being recognized
as an adjustment to additional  paid-in  capital.  The Company  adopted SFAS No.
123R on  January  1, 2006  using the  Modified  Prospective  Application  method
without restatement of prior periods.  Under this method, the Company recognizes
compensation  cost for the unvested fair value of its  outstanding  awards as of
January 1, 2006.  Compensation  cost for  these awards will be based on the fair
value of the awards as  disclosed  on a pro forma basis under SFAS No. 123.  The
Company will account for awards that are granted, modified, or settled after the
adoption date in accordance with SFAS No. 123R.

     At December 31, 2005,  all of the Company's  outstanding  options are fully
vested  and thus there will be no  compensation  expense in 2006  related to the
adoption of SFAS No.  123R.  The Company  has not yet  developed  an estimate of
compensation  expense  related to future  grants of stock  options,  which would
result in additional expense under SFAS No. 123R.

3.   Discontinued Operations

     In September 2003, the Company  completed the sale of substantially  all of
the assets of Process  to  Novatech  pursuant  to an Asset  Purchase  Agreement,
effective as of September 25, 2003.  The Company  received $5.5 million in cash,
subject  to  certain  adjustments.   The  Company  recognized  a  loss  on  this
transaction of $262,000. In conjunction with the transaction, Novatech purchased
certain assets with a book value of $11.7 million and assumed certain  operating
liabilities   totaling   approximately   $6.8  million.   The  Company  incurred
approximately $865,000 of closing costs associated with the transaction. Results
of operations have been classified as discontinued operations.

     The  contract  revenue  and  income  (loss)  for the  discontinued  Process
business was:

Loss from discontinued  operations in 2003 includes losses of $115,000 from
the write down of the  Company's  investment in Avantium  International  BV. The
$36,000 of income from discontinued  operations in 2004 relates to the favorable
resolution  of certain  contingencies  which the Company had provided for at the
date of sale net of income taxes.

4.  Contract receivables

     Contract  receivables  represent  balances  due  from a broad  base of both
domestic and international customers. All contract receivables are considered to
be collectible  within twelve months.  Recoverable  costs and accrued profit not
billed represent costs incurred and associated  profit accrued on contracts that
will become  billable upon future  milestones  or  completion of contracts.  The
components of contract receivables are as follows:

5.  Prepaid expenses and other current assets

     Prepaid expenses and other current assets consist of the following:

6.  Equipment and leasehold improvements

     Equipment and leasehold improvements consist of the following:

Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $431,000, $280,000,
and  $392,000  for  the  years  ended   December 31,   2005,   2004,  and  2003,
respectively.  Due to the relocation of the Company's  Maryland  operations from
Columbia,  Maryland  to  Baltimore,   Maryland  in  October  2005,  the  Company
accelerated the depreciation of certain leasehold improvements.

7.  Software development costs

     Software development costs, net, consist of the following:

Software   development  costs  capitalized  were  approximately   $483,000,
$361,000,  and  $542,000 for the years ended  December 31, 2005,  2004 and 2003,
respectively.   Amortization  of  software  development  costs  capitalized  was
approximately $452,000,  $398,000, and $339,000 for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and were included in cost of revenue.

8.  Long-term Debt

The Company's long-term debt consists of the following:

Line of Credit

     As of  December  31,  2005,  the  Company  has a line of credit with a bank
through General Physics Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of GP Strategies.
Under the terms of the  agreement,  $1.5 million of General  Physics'  available
credit  facility has been carved out for use by GSE. The line is  collateralized
by  substantially  all of the Company's assets and provides for borrowings up to
80% of eligible accounts receivable and 80% of eligible unbilled receivables. GP
Strategies  guarantees  GSE's  borrowings  under  the  credit  facility,   which
continued in place after the spin-off from GP  Strategies.  The interest rate on
this line of credit is based  upon the Daily  LIBOR  Market  Index  Rate plus 3%
(7.38% as of December 31, 2005),  with  interest  only payments due monthly.  At
December 31, 2005, the Company's  available  borrowing base was $1.5 million, of
which  $1,192,000 had been utilized,  including  $10,000 for a letter of credit.
The current  credit  facility was scheduled to expire on August 13, 2006; but on
March 7, 2006, the Company  entered into a new loan and security  agreement with
another financial  institution.  See Note 19, Subsequent events for a discussion
of the new credit facility.

Senior Convertible Secured Subordinated Note Payable

     On May 26, 2005, GSE issued and sold to Dolphin Direct Equity Partners,  LP
a Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Note in the aggregate principal amount
of  $2,000,000,  which  matures  March 31,  2009  (the  "Dolphin  Note"),  and a
seven-year warrant to purchase 380,952 shares of GSE common stock at an exercise
price of $2.22 per share (the "GSE  Warrant").  The Dolphin Note is  convertible
into  1,038,961  shares of GSE common stock at a conversion  price of $1.925 per
share and accrues  interest at 8% payable  quarterly.  Both the Convertible Note
and the Warrant are subject to anti-dilution provisions.  The aggregate purchase
price  for the  Dolphin  Note and GSE  Warrant  was  $2,000,000.  At the date of
issuance,  the fair value of the GSE Warrant and  Conversion  Option,  which was
established   using  the   Black-Scholes   Model,  was  $375,000  and  $959,000,
respectively,  both of which were recorded as noncurrent  liabilities,  with the
offset recorded as original issue discount (OID).  OID is accreted over the term
of the Dolphin Note and charged to interest expense, and the unamortized balance
is  netted  against  long-term  debt in the  accompanying  consolidated  balance
sheets.  The GSE Warrant and Conversion Option  liabilities are marked to market
through  earnings  on a  quarterly  basis in  accordance  with  EITF No.  00-19,
Accounting  for Derivative  Financial  Instruments  Indexed to, and  Potentially
Settled in a Company's  Common Stock.  For the year ended December 31, 2005, the
Company recognized a gain of $636,000 from the change in the fair value of these
liabilities.  The gain is recorded in other income  (expense),  net in 2005. The
fair value of these  liabilities  was  $698,000 as of  December  31, 2005 and is
included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. On February 28,
2006, the Company completed a preferred stock offering and used a portion of the
proceeds  to payoff  the  Dolphin  Note.  See Note 19,  Subsequent  events for a
discussion of the preferred stock transaction.

     Note Payable, Other

     The Company had an unsecured  promissory note payable to a former employee.
The final payment on the note was made in April 2005.

     Debt Maturities

     Aggregate  maturities  of debt  outstanding  at  December  31,  2005 are as
follows:

On February 28, 2006, the Company  completed a preferred stock offering and
used a portion of the proceeds to pay off all of its outstanding long-term debt.
See  Note  19,  Subsequent  events  for a  discussion  of  the  preferred  stock
transaction.

9.  Income taxes

     The consolidated income (loss) before income taxes, by domestic and foreign
sources, is as follows:

The provision for income taxes is as follows:

The  difference  between the provision for income taxes  included in income
(loss) from continuing operations computed at the applicable U.S. statutory rate
and the reported provision for income taxes is as follows:

Deferred  income  taxes arise from  temporary  differences  between the tax
bases of assets and  liabilities  and their  reported  amounts in the  financial
statements.  A summary of the tax effect of the  significant  components  of the
deferred income tax assets (liabilities) is as follows:

In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers
whether it is more likely than not that some or all of the  deferred  tax assets
will not be  realized.  The  ultimate  realization  of  deferred  tax  assets is
dependent  upon the  generation of future  taxable  income during the periods in
which those temporary  differences become deductible.  Management  considers the
scheduled  reversal of deferred tax liabilities  and projected  future income in
making this assessment.  Management  could not substantiate  recovery of the net
deferred tax assets with currently available  objective  evidence.  Accordingly,
the Company has established a $10,361,000  valuation  allowance for the deferred
tax assets as of December 31, 2005.  The  valuation  allowance  for deferred tax
assets  increased by $1,628,000 in 2005, by $152,000 in 2004, and by $806,000 in
2003.

     At December 31, 2005, the Company had available  $20,426,000 and $1,785,000
of domestic and foreign net operating loss  carryforwards,  respectively,  which
expire between 2012 and 2025 The amount of loss  carryforward  which can be used
by the Company may be limited.

10.  Capital stock

     The Company's Board of Directors has authorized  20,000,000 total shares of
capital stock, of which  18,000,000 are designated as common stock and 2,000,000
are designated as preferred  stock.  The Board of Directors has the authority to
establish one or more classes of preferred  stock and to  determine,  within any
class of preferred stock, the preferences, rights and other terms of such class.

In June 2003, the Company  issued 100,000  warrants at an exercise price of
$1.33 per share,  the closing price on July 8, 2003 as  consideration to ManTech
for issuing letters of credit on the Company's behalf.  The Company pays ManTech
a fee equal to 7% per annum, paid quarterly, on the total amount of the value of
the  outstanding  letters  of credit  which  expire  August  2006.  The  Company
amortized the estimated fair value of these warrants  ($86,000) over the life of
the project as additional  contract  costs.  The warrants are  outstanding as of
December 31, 2005.

     On October 23, 2003,  ManTech  converted its  preferred  stock to 2,511,915
shares of GSE common stock.  See the discussion of this  transaction in Note 11,
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock.

     On  October  23,  2003,  GP  Strategies   purchased  a  $650,000  unsecured
subordinated  promissory note from ManTech.  The terms of the subordinated  note
were amended by the Company to allow the conversion of the subordinated  debt to
GSE common  stock at a rate of  $1.5526.  GP  Strategies  converted  the note on
October 23, 2003 and received  418,653  shares of GSE common  stock.

     On May 26, 2005,  GSE issued and sold the  "Dolphin  Note" and a seven-year
warrant to purchase  380,952  shares of GSE common stock at an exercise price of
$2.22 per share  (the "GSE  Warrant").  The  Dolphin  Note is  convertible  into
1,038,961  shares of GSE common stock at a conversion  price of $1.925 per share
and accrues interest at 8% payable quarterly.  Both the convertible note and the
warrant are subject to anti-dilution provisions. The warrants are outstanding as
of December 31, 2005. See Note 19, Subsequent events.

     As of December  31,  2005,  the Company has  reserved  3,555,091  shares of
common stock for issuance  upon  exercise of stock  options and warrants and the
conversion of the outstanding Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Note.

11.  Series A Convertible Preferred Stock

     On December 5, 2001,  ManTech  converted $3.9 million of subordinated  debt
into  Series A  convertible  preferred  stock at a  conversion  rate of $100 per
share.  The  Series A  convertible  preferred  stock  had no voting  rights  and
accumulated  dividends  at the rate of 6% per  annum  payable  quarterly.  As of
December  31,  2005,  the Company had  accrued  dividends  payable to ManTech of
$366,000.  The unpaid dividends accrue interest at 6% per annum. At December 31,
2005 the Company had an accrual for interest payable of $60,000.

     ManTech, at its discretion, had the right to convert each share of Series A
convertible  preferred stock into GSE common stock at a purchase price of $2.645
per share at any time after a one-year holding period from the date of issuance.
On  September  29,  2003,  the Company  amended  the  Preferred  Stock  issuance
agreement  to revise the  conversion  rate to $1.5526  per share.  The change in
conversion rate increased the number of common shares  available upon conversion
from 1,474,480 to 2,511,915.  On October 23, 2003,  ManTech converted all of its
preferred stock to common stock in conjunction with the sale of its ownership in
GSE to GP Strategies.  The additional common shares that ManTech received in the
conversion  due to the  change  in  conversion  rate  have  been  recorded  as a
beneficial  conversion  premium,  valued at  $1,950,000  based upon the  closing
market price per share ($1.88) as of October 23, 2003, and a reduction in income
attributable to common stockholders.

     On February 28, 2006, the Company completed a preferred stock offering. See
Note 19, Subsequent events for a discussion of the preferred stock transaction.

12.  Stock options

Long term incentive plan

     During 1995, the Company  established  the 1995 Long-Term  Incentive  Stock
Option Plan (the  "Plan"),  which  includes  all  officers,  key  employees  and
non-employee  members  of the  Company's  Board of  Directors.  All  options  to
purchase shares of the Company's  common stock under the Plan expire seven years
from the date of grant and generally  become  exercisable in three  installments
with 40% vesting on the first  anniversary  of the grant date and 30% vesting on
each of the  second  and third  anniversaries  of the  grant  date,  subject  to
acceleration under certain  circumstances.  As of December 31, 2005, the Company
had 368,442 shares of common stock reserved for future grants under the Plan.

     Stock option and warrant activity, including options and warrants issued in
addition to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Stock Option Plan, is as follows:

The  following   table   summarizes   information   relating  to  currently
outstanding and exercisable options and warrants at December 31, 2005:

13.  Commitments and contingencies

Leases

     The Company is obligated under certain  noncancelable  operating leases for
office   facilities   and   equipment.   Future  minimum  lease  payments  under
noncancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2005 are as follows:

Total rent expense under operating  leases for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004, and 2003 was approximately $1.3 million, $1.2 million, and $998,000,
respectively.

     The  Company  subleased  3520 sq.  ft. of space in the  Columbia,  Maryland
facility which terminated in October 2005 and February 2006. For the years ended
December 31, 2005,  2004 and 2003,  such sublease  rentals  amounted to $71,000,
$80,000, and $71,000, respectively.

In October 2005,  the Company  signed an "Assignment of Lease and Amendment
to Lease" that assigns and  transfers  to another  tenant (the  "assignee")  the
Company's rights,  title and interest in its Columbia,  Maryland facility lease.
The assignee's obligation to pay rent under the Lease began on February 1, 2006.
The  Company  remains  fully  liable  for the  payment  of all  rent and for the
performance of all obligations under the lease through the scheduled  expiration
of the lease, May 31, 2008,  should the assignee  default on their  obligations.
The Company relocated its Maryland  operations from its Columbia facility to its
Baltimore facility in October 2005.

Letters of credit and performance bonds

     As  of  December  31,  2005,  the  Company  was  contingently   liable  for
approximately  $56,000  under one letter of credit  used as a payment  bond on a
contract,  which was secured by a cash deposit classified as restricted cash and
included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The Company also was
contingently  liable for $10,000  under a letter of credit used as a bid bond on
an outstanding proposal,  which was secured by the Company's credit facility. In
addition,  the  Company  was  contingently  liable  at  December  31,  2005  for
approximately  $30,000  under a  performance  bond on one  contract,  which  was
secured by a bank guarantee of the Company's foreign subsidiary.

Contingencies

     Various actions and proceedings are presently  pending to which the Company
is a party.  In the opinion of management,  the aggregate  liabilities,  if any,
arising from such actions are not expected to have a material  adverse effect on
the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.

14. Related party transactions

     Prior  to  the  spin-off  discussed  in  Note  1,  Business  and  basis  of
presentation, GP Strategies owned 57% of the Company.

     On  January  1,  2004,  the  Company  entered  into a  Management  Services
Agreement  with GP  Strategies  Corporation  in which GP  Strategies  agreed  to
provide corporate support services to GSE, including accounting,  finance, human
resources,  legal,  network  support and tax.  GSE was charged  $685,000  for GP
Strategies'  services in both 2005 and 2004.  The  agreement  has been  extended
through  December 31, 2006 without an increase in the fee. In addition,  in 2004
GSE was charged  $289,000 by GP Strategies for  compensation and benefits of the
Company's CEO who was an employee of GP Strategies until December 16, 2004.

     In 2003,  GSE was charged  $100,000 for  management  services and insurance
coverage for November and December 2003.

15.  Employee benefits

     The  Company  has  a  qualified  defined   contribution  plan  that  covers
substantially  all U.S.  employees under Section 401(k) of the Internal  Revenue
Code.  Under this plan, the Company's  stipulated basic  contribution  matches a
portion of the participants'  contributions  based upon a defined schedule.  The
Company's  contributions to the plan were approximately  $93,000,  $110,000, and
$239,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.

16.  Segment information

     The Company has one reportable  business  segment that provides  simulation
solutions and services to the nuclear and fossil electric utility industry,  the
chemical  and  petrochemical  industries  and  to  the  U.S.  Military  Complex.
Contracts typically range from 10 months to three years.

     For the years  ended  December  31,  2005,  2004,  and 2003,  one  customer
(Battelle's Pacific Northwest National  Laboratory)  accounted for approximately
25%, 24%, and 29%,  respectively,  of the Company's  consolidated  revenue.  The
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory is the purchasing agent for the Department
of Energy and the projects the Company performs in Eastern and Central Europe.

     For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, 83%, 85%, and 89% of
the  Company's  consolidated  revenue was from  customers  in the nuclear  power
industry,  respectively. The Company designs, develops and delivers business and
technology solutions to the energy industry worldwide. Revenue, operating income
(loss) and total assets for the Company's  United  States,  European,  and Asian
subsidiaries as of and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 are
as follows:

Approximately  63%,  65%,  and 70% of the  Company's  2005,  2004  and 2003
revenue,  respectively, was derived from international sales of its products and
services from all of its subsidiaries.

17. Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information

18.  Quarterly financial data (unaudited)

     The Company's quarterly financial  information has not been audited but, in
management's   opinion,   includes  all   adjustments   necessary   for  a  fair
presentation.

19. Subsequent events

     On February 28, 2006,  the Company and Dolphin  entered into a Cancellation
and Warrant  Exchange  Agreement  (the  "Cancellation  Agreement"  ) under which
Dolphin agreed to cancel its Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible  Promissory
Note and cancel its outstanding warrant to purchase 380,952 shares of GSE common
stock at an  exercise  price of $2.22  per  share.  In  exchange  for  Dolphin's
agreement to enter into the Cancellation  Agreement and for the participation of
Dolphin  Offshore  Partners,  LP in the Preferred  Stock  transaction  discussed
below,  the Company  paid off the Dolphin Note and agreed to issue a new warrant
to purchase  900,000 shares of GSE common stock at an exercise price of $.67 per
share.  Dolphin  must  exercise  the new  warrant  promptly  after  the  Company
certifies to Dolphin on or after May 30, 2006 (the  "Mandatory  Exercise  Date")
that,  among other things,  the current stock price shall not be less than $1.25
on the Mandatory  Exercise Date and that the average of the current stock prices
for each  trading  day of the 30  calendar  day period up to and  including  the
Mandatory Exercise Date is not less than $1.25.

     On February 28, 2006, the Company raised $4.25 million  through the sale of
42,500 shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Warrants by
means of a private placement to "accredited investors",  as that term is used in
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Convertible
Preferred  Stock is convertible at any time into a total of 2,401,130  shares of
GSE common stock at a conversion  price of $1.77 per share. The conversion price
was equal to 110% of the closing price of the Company's Common Stock on February
28, 2006, the date the sale of the  Convertible  Preferred  Stock was completed.
Each investor received a five-year warrant to purchase GSE common stock equal to
20% of the shares they would  received from the  conversion  of the  Convertible
Preferred  Stock,  at an exercise price of $1.77.  In total,  the Company issued
warrants  to  purchase  a total of  480,226  shares  of GSE  common  stock.  The
Convertible  Preferred Stock holders are entitled to  an 8% cumulative dividend,
payable on a semiannual basis every June 30 and December 30. If the Company does
not make two consecutive  dividend  payments on the dates such payments are due,
there will be an  additional  30% warrant  coverage of  five-year  warrants at a
conversion  price of $1.77 per  share.  At any time  after  March 1,  2007,  the
Company has the right to convert the  Preferred  Stock into shares of GSE common
stock when the average of the current stock price during the twenty trading days
immediately  prior to the date of such  conversion  exceeds 200% of the Series A
Conversion Price. The holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to
vote on all matters submitted to the stockholders for a vote,  together with the
holders of the voting common stock,  all voting together as a single class.  The
holders of the  Convertible  Preferred Stock are entitled to the number of votes
equal to the number of GSE common stock that they would receive upon  conversion
of their Convertible Preferred Stock.

     The Company paid the placement  agent 6% of the gross proceeds  received by
the Company from the offering  ($255,000)  plus  five-year  warrants to purchase
150,000  shares of the Company's  common stock at an exercise price of $1.77 per
share.

     The proceeds were used to payoff the Dolphin Note and the Company's line of
credit balance and for other working capital purposes.

     On  March 7,  2006,  the  Company  entered  into a new  loan  and  security
agreement  with Laurus Master Fund,  Ltd. The new  agreement  established a $5.0
million  line  of  credit  for  the  Company.  The  line  is  collateralized  by
substantially  all of the Company's assets and provides for borrowings up to 90%
of eligible accounts receivable, and 40% of eligible unbilled receivables (up to
a maximum of $1.0 million). The interest rate on this line of credit is based on
the prime rate plus 200-basis  points,  with interest only payments due monthly.

     The Company issued to Laurus Master Fund,  Ltd. a warrant to purchase up to
367,647 shares of GSE common stock at an exercise price of $.01 per share.

ITEM  9.  CHANGES  IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

     The Company maintains  disclosure controls and procedures that are designed
to ensure that  information  required to be disclosed by it in its reports filed
or  submitted  pursuant  to the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as  amended
(Exchange Act), is recorded, processed,  summarized and reported within the time
periods  specified in the Securities and Exchange  Commission's  rules and forms
and that information required to be disclosed by the Company in its Exchange Act
reports is accumulated and  communicated to management,  including the Company's
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial  Officer,  to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.

     During  the fourth  quarter  2005,  there have been no changes in  internal
control  over  financial  reporting  that  have  materially  affected,   or  are
reasonably  likely to materially  affect,  the Company's  internal  control over
financial reporting.

     Based on their  evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this Form
10-K, the Company's  principal executive officer and principal financial officer
have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Rules  13a-15(e)  under the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 (the  "Exchange
Act") are effective to ensure that information  required to be disclosed by  the
Company in reports that if files or submits  under the Exchange Act is recorded,
processed,  and  summarized  and reported  within the time periods  specified in
Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms.

     Limitation of Effectiveness of Controls

     It should be noted that any system of controls,  however well  designed and
operated,  can provide only  reasonable,  and not absolute,  assurance  that the
objectives of the system will be met. The design of any control system is based,
in part, upon the benefits of the control system relative to its costs.  Because
of the inherent  limitations in all control  systems,  no evaluation of controls
can provide  absolute  assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud,
if any,  within the  Company  have been  detected.  These  inherent  limitations
include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty,  and that
controls  can be  circumvented  by the  individual  acts  of  some  persons,  by
collusion  of two or more  people  or by  management  override  of  control.  In
addition,  over  time,  controls  may  become  inadequate  because of changes in
conditions,  or the degree of  compliance  with the policies or  procedures  may
deteriorate. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon
certain assumpt ions about the likelihood of future events.  Because of inherent
limitation in a  cost-effective  control system,  misstatements  due to error or
fraud may occur and not be detected.  The Company's  controls and procedures are
designed  to  provide  a  reasonable  level  of  assurance  of  achieving  their
objectives.

ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION

     None.

PART III

     The  information  required  in  response  to Items 10, 11, 12 13, and 14 is
hereby incorporated by reference to the information under the captions "Election
of  Directors",  "Principal  Executive  Officers of the Company Who Are Not Also
Directors",   "Executive   Compensation",   "Voting   Securities  and  Principal
Stockholders",    "Security   Ownership   of   Management",   "Certain   Related
Transactions"  and  "Principal  Accountant  Fees  and  Services"  in  the  Proxy
Statement for the Company's 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a) (1) List of Financial Statements

     The following financial statements are included in Item 8:

GSE Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries

        Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
        Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004
        Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31,
        2005, 2004, and 2003
        Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years
        ended December 31, 2005,  2004,  and 2003
        Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the years
        ended December 31, 2005,  2004, and 2003
        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
        2005, 2004, and 2003
        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(a) (2)  List of Schedules

     All other schedules to the consolidated financial statements are omitted as
the required information is either inapplicable or presented in the consolidated
financial statements or related notes.

(a) (3)  List of Exhibits

     The Exhibits which are filed with this report or which are  incorporated by
reference are set forth in the Exhibit Index hereto.

SIGNATURES
- ----------

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        GSE Systems, Inc.

                                        By: / S / JOHN MORAN
                                           -------------------------
                                            John Moran
                                            Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities Act, this report has been signed
by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Date:  March 31,  2006                      / S / JOHN MORAN
                                           -------------------------
                                            John Moran, Chief Executive Officer
                                            (Principal Executive Officer)

Date: March 31,  2006                       / S / JEFFERY G. HOUGH
                                           -------------------------
                                            Jeffery G. Hough, Senior Vice
                                            President and Chief Financial
                                            Officer
                                            (Principal Financial and Accounting
                                            Officer)

Date: March 31, 2006
(Jerome I. Feldman, Chairman of the Board)        By:  / S / JEFFERY G. HOUGH
(Michael D. Feldman, Director            )           -------------------------
(Dr. Sheldon L. Glashow, Director        )             Jeffery G. Hough
(Scott N. Greenberg, Director            )             Attorney-in-Fact
(Dr. Roger Hagengruber, Director         )
(Andrea Kantor, Director                 )
(Joseph W. Lewis, Director               )
(George J. Pedersen, Director            )
(Douglas Sharp, Director                 )

     A Power of Attorney,  dated March 17, 2006 authorizing  Jeffery G. Hough to
sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005
on behalf of certain of the  directors of the  Registrant is filed as Exhibit 24
to this Annual Report.

Exhibit   Description of Exhibit
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

      3.  Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws

3(i) 1.  Third Amended and Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation  of the
               Company.  Previously  filed in  connection  with the GSE Systems,
               Inc.  Form  8-K  as  filed  with  the   Securities  and  Exchange
               Commission  on  October  24,  2001  and  incorporated  herein  by
               reference.

      3(ii)1.  Form of Amended and Restated  Bylaws of the  Company.  Previously
               filed in connection with Amendment No. 1 to the GSE Systems, Inc.
               Form S-1 Registration  Statement as filed with the Securities and
               Exchange  Commission on June 14, 1995 and incorporated  herein by
               reference.

      4.  Instruments Defining Rights of Security Holders, including Indenture.

4.1  Specimen  Common Stock  Certificate  of the  Company.  Previously
               filed in connection with Amendment No. 3 to the GSE Systems, Inc.
               Form S-1 Registration  Statement as filed with the Securities and
               Exchange  Commission on July 24, 1995 and incorporated  herein by
               reference.

          4.2  Preferred  Stock  Issuance  Agreement by and between GSE Systems,
               Inc. and ManTech  International  Corporation  (dated  December 5,
               2001).  Previously filed in connection with the GSE Systems, Inc.
               Form 8-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission on
               December 12, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.

4.3  Cancellation  and Warrant  Exchange  Agreement dated February 28,
               2006 by and among GSE  Systems,  Inc. and Dolphin  Direct  Equity
               Partners,  LP.  Previously  filed  in  connection  with  the  GSE
               Systems,  Inc.  Form 8-K filed with the  Securities  and Exchange
               Commission  on   March  6, 2006,   and   incorporated   herein by
               reference.

          4.4  Registration  Rights  Agreement  dated  February  28, 2006 by and
               among GSE Systems,  Inc. and Dolphin Direct Equity Partners,  LP.
               Previously  filed in connection  with the GSE Systems,  Inc. Form
               8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 6,
               2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

          4.5  Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Note and Warrant Purchase
               Agreement dated as of May 26, 2005 by and among GSE Systems, Inc.
               and Dolphin  Direct  Equity  Partners,  LP.  Previously  filed in
               connection  with the GSE  Systems,  Inc.  Form 8-K filed with the
               Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  on  March  6,  2006,   and
               incorporated herein by reference.

4.6  Form of Senior Subordinated  Secured  Convertible  Promisson Note
               dated as of May 26,  2005 issued by and among GSE  Systems,  Inc.
               and Dolphin  Direct  Equity  Partners,  LP.  Previously  filed in
               connection  with the GSE  Systems,  Inc.  Form 8-K filed with the
               Securities  and  Exchange  Commission   on   March 6,  2006,  and
               incorporated herein by reference.

          4.7  Form of Warrant to Purchase 900,000 shares of Common Stock of GSE
               Systems,  Inc. dated as of February 28, 2006. Previously filed in
               connection  with the GSE  Systems,  Inc.  Form 8-K filed with the
               Securities   and   Exchange  Commission  on  March 6,  2006,  and
               incorporated herein by reference.

          4.8  Form of Warrant to Purchase 380,952 shares of Common Stock of GSE
               Systems,  Inc.  dated  as of May 26,  2005.  Previously  filed in
               connection  with the GSE  Systems,  Inc.  Form 8-K filed with the
               Securities   and  Exchange  Commission  on  March  6, 2006,   and
               incorporated herein by reference.

          4.9  Form of  Warrant  to  Purchase  shares  of  Common  Stock  of GSE
               Systems,  Inc. dated as of February 28, 2006. Previously filed in
               connection  with the GSE  Systems,  Inc.  Form 8-K filed with the
               Securities   and  Exchange  Commission  on  March  6, 2006,   and
               incorporated herein by reference.

          4.10 Certificate of  Designation,  Preferences  and Rights of Series A
               Cumulative   Preferred  Stock  dated  as  of  February  28,  2006
               providing for the issuance of a series of 42,500 shares of Series
               A Cumulative  Convertible  Preferred  Stock,  par value $0.01 per
               share.  Previously filed in connection with the GSE Systems, Inc.
               Form 8-K filed with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  on
               March 6, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

          4.11 Form of  Warrant  to  Purchase  367,647  shares of the  Company's
               Common  Stock  dated  as of March 7,  2006.  Previously  filed in
               connection  with the GSE  Systems,  Inc.  Form 8-K filed with the
               Securities   and  Exchange Commission  on  March  13,  2006,  and
               incorporated herein by reference.

          4.12 Grant of Security Interest in Patents and Trademarks by and among
               GSE Systems, GSE Power Systems, Inc. and Laurus Master Fund, Ltd.
               dated March 7, 2006.  Previously filed in connection with the GSE
               Systems,  Inc.  Form 8-K filed with the  Securities  and Exchange
               Commission  on  March 13,  2006,  and  incorporated   herein   by
               reference.

          4.13 Subsidiary  Guaranty by and among GSE Company Services LLC, MSHI,
               Inc.,  GSE Power Systems,  Inc.,  GSE Erudite  Software Inc., GSE
               Government & Military Simulation  Systems,  Inc., and GSE Process
               Solutions, Inc. and Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. dated as of March 7,
               2006.  Previously filed in connection with the GSE Systems,  Inc.
               Form 8-K filed with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  on
               March 13, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

4.14 Control  Agreement by and among GSE Systems,  Inc., Laurus Master
               Fund Ltd. and GSE Services Company LLC dated as of March 7, 2006.
               Previously  filed in connection  with the GSE Systems,  Inc. Form
               8-K filed with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on March
               13, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

          4.15 Security  Agreement  by and among GSE  Systems,  Inc.,  GSE Power
               Systems,  Inc. and Laurus Master Fund,  Ltd. dated as of March 7,
               2006.  Previously filed in connection with the GSE Systems,  Inc.
               Form 8-K filed with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  on
               March 13, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

          4.16 Registration Rights Agreement by and among GSE Systems,  Inc. and
               Laurus Master Fund,  Ltd.  dated as of March 7, 2006.  Previously
               filed in  connection  with the GSE Systems,  Inc.  Form 8-K filed
               with  the  Securities  and Exchange Commission on March 13, 2006,
               and incorporated herein by reference.

          4.17 Stock Pledge Agreement by and among the Company,  MSHI, Inc., GSE
               Power  Systems,  Inc.,  GSE Process  Solutions,  Inc.  and Laurus
               Master Fund, Ltd. dated as of March 7, 2006.  Previously filed in
               connection  with the GSE  Systems,  Inc.  Form 8-K filed with the
               Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  on  March  13,  2006,  and
               incorporated herein by reference.

          4.18 Secured Non-convertible Revolving Note dated as of March 7, 2006.
               Previously  filed in connection  with the GSE Systems,  Inc. Form
               8-K filed with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on March
               13, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

10.  Material Contracts

10.1 Agreement  among  ManTech  International  Corporation,   National
               Patent Development Corporation,  GPS Technologies,  Inc., General
               Physics Corporation,  Vattenfall  Engineering AB and GSE Systems,
               Inc. (dated as of April 13, 1994). Previously filed in connection
               with the GSE Systems,  Inc.  Form S-1  Registration  Statement as
               filed with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission on April 24,
               1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

          10.2 GSE Systems,  Inc. 1995 Long-Term  Incentive Plan,  amended as of
               April  28,  2005.  Previously  filed in  connection  with the GSE
               Systems,  Inc.  Form  DEF14A  as filed  with the  Securities  and
               Exchange  Commission on May 31, 2005 and  incorporated  herein by
               reference.*

          10.3 Form of  Option  Agreement  Under  the  GSE  Systems,  Inc.  1995
               Long-Term Incentive Plan. Previously filed in connection with the
               GSE  Systems,  Inc.  Form 10-K as filed with the  Securities  and
               Exchange  Commission on March 22, 1996 and incorporated herein by
               reference.*

          10.4 Office Lease Agreement between Sterling  Rutherford Plaza, L.L.C.
               and GSE Systems, Inc. (dated as of February 10, 1998). Previously
               filed in connection with the GSE Systems, Inc. Form 10-K as filed
               with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 21, 1998 and
               incorporated herein by reference.

          10.5 Office Lease Agreement  between Red Branch Road,  L.L.C.  and GSE
               Systems,  Inc.  (dated  February 10, 1998).  Previously  filed in
               connection with the GSE Systems, Inc. Form 10-K as filed with the
               Securities  and  Exchange   Commission  on  March  21,  1998  and
               incorporated herein by reference.

          10.6 Assignment of Lease and Amendment of Lease between GSEM, LLC  and
               GSE Systems, Inc. filed herewith.

          10.7 Preferred  Stock  Issuance  Agreement by and between GSE Systems,
               Inc. and ManTech  International  Corporation  (dated  December 5,
               2001).  Previously filed in connection with the GSE Systems, Inc.
               Form 8-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission on
               December 12, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference.

          10.8 Asset Sale and Purchase  Agreement between GSE Systems,  Inc. and
               Novatech  LLC  dated  September  25,  2003.  Previously  filed in
               connection with the GSE Systems,  Inc. Form 8-K as filed with the
               Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  on  October  10,  2003 and
               incorporated herein by reference.

          10.9 Management  Services  Agreement between GSE Systems,  Inc. and GP
               Strategies Corporation dated January 1, 2004. Previously filed in
               connection  with the GSE Systems,  Inc.  Form 10-K filed with the
               Securities  and  Exchange   Commission  on  April  14,  2004  and
               incorporated herein by reference.

         10.10 First  Amendment  dated  March  30,  2004  to the  Financing  and
               Security Agreement among General Physics Corporation, Skillright,
               Inc., GSE Systems,  Inc., GSE Power Systems, Inc., and MSHI, Inc.
               and Wachovia  Bank,  National  Association.  Previously  filed in
               connection  with the GSE Systems,  Inc.  Form 10-K filed with the
               Securities  and  Exchange   Commission  on  April  14,  2004  and
               incorporated herein by reference.

         10.11 Third  Amendment  dated  July  30,  2004  to  the  Financing  and
               Security Agreement among General Physics Corporation, Skillright,
               Inc., GSE Systems,  Inc.,  GSE Systems,  Inc., GSE Power Systems,
               Inc.  and MSHI,  Inc.  and Wachovia  Bank  National  Association.
               Previously  filed in connection  with the GSE Systems,  Form 10-Q
               filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 12,
               2004 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10.12 Forbearance  letter  dated  August 4, 2005  from  Wachovia  Bank,
               National Association. Previously filed in connection with the GSE
               Systems,  Inc. Form 10-Q filed with the  Securities  and Exchange
               Commission  on  August  15,  2005,  and  incorporated  herein  by
               reference.

     14. Code of Ethics

          14.1 Code  of  Ethics  for  Principal  Executive  Officer  and  Senior
               Financial Officers, filed herewith.

     21.  Subsidiaries.

               List of  Subsidiaries  of  Registrant at December 31, 2005, filed
               herewith.

     23.  Consents of Experts and Counsel

          23.1 Consent of KPMG LLP, filed herewith.

     24.  Power of Attorney

24.1 Power of Attorney for Directors' and Officers'  Signatures on SEC
               Form 10-K, filed herewith.

     31. Certifications

          31.1 Certification of Chief Executive  Officer of the Company pursuant
               to  Securities  and  Exchange Act Rule  13d-14(a)/15(d-14(a),  as
               adopted pursuant to Section 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
               of 2002, filed herewith.

          31.2.Certification of Chief Financial  Officer of the Company pursuant
               to  Securities  and  Exchange Act Rule  13d-14(a)/15(d-14(a),  as
               adopted pursuant to Section 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
               of 2002, filed herewith.

     32. Section 1350 Certifications

          32.1 Certification  of Chief  Executive  Officer  and Chief  Financial
               Officer of the  Company  pursuant  to 18 U.S.C.  Section  1350 as
               adopted  pursuant  to Section  906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of
               2002, filed herewith.

99. Additional Exhibits

99.1 Form of Right of First  Refusal  Agreement.  Previously  filed in
               connection with Amendment No. 3 to the GSE Systems, Inc. Form S-1
               Registration  Statement as filed with the Securities and Exchange
               Commission on July 24, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

*    Management  contracts or  compensatory  plans  required to be filed as
          exhibits pursuant to Item 14 (c) of this report.

<EX-10>
 2
 exh10_6leasereassign.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.6 LEASE ASSIGNMENT
 
     ASSIGNMENT  OF LEASE AND  AMENDMENT TO LEASE THIS  ASSIGNMENT  OF LEASE AND
AMENDMENT TO LEASE (this "Agreement") is made and entered into as of October 21,
2005,  by  and  between  GSEM,  LLC,  a  Delaware  limited   liability   company
(successor-in-interest  to Red Branch Road, L.L.C., a Maryland limited liability
company)  ("Landlord"),  GSE SYSTEMS, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Tenant" and
"Assignor"),   and  BRIDGEWAY  COMMUNITY  CHURCH,  INC.,  a  Maryland  religious
non-profit corporation ("Assignee").

                                   RECITALS:

     A. Landlord and Tenant  entered into that certain Lease dated as of January
30, 1998 (the "Original  Lease"),  as amended by that certain First Amendment to
Lease dated as of November 1, 1999 (the "First Amendment")  between Landlord and
Tenant,  pursuant  to which  Landlord  leased to Tenant and Tenant  leased  from
Landlord  approximately 52,682 square feet of rentable area (the "Premises") and
located on approximately 4.779 acres of land at 9189 Red Branch Road,  Columbia,
Maryland  (the  "Building").  The  Original  Lease and the First  Amendment  are
attached hereto as Exhibit A, and may be referred to herein  collectively as the
"Lease".

     B. The parties  desire to enter into this  Agreement to provide for (i) the
assignment of the Tenant's interest in the Lease by Tenant to Assignee, (ii) the
assumption of Tenant's obligations under the Lease by Assignee, (iii) Landlord's
consent to such  assignment  and  assumption,  and (iv) the amendment of certain
provisions of the Lease as of the Effective Date (as hereafter defined).

                                   AGREEMENT:

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  in consideration of the foregoing Recitals and the mutual
covenants contained herein, and for other good and valuable  consideration,  the
receipt and  sufficiency  of which are hereby  acknowledged,  the parties hereto
agree as follows:

     1. Capitalized terms. Except as otherwise set forth herein, all capitalized
terms used in this Agreement shall have the same meaning given such terms in the
Lease. All references in this Agreement and in the Lease to "this Lease" or "the
Lease" shall mean and refer to the Lease as amended by this Agreement.

     2. Assignment of Lease.

2.1 Assignment and Assumption.  Effective as of the "Effective Date" (as defined
in Section 2.2 below) and subject to the conditions set forth in Section 2.3 and
2.4 below,  (a)  Assignor  hereby  assigns  and  transfers  to  Assignee  all of
Assignor's  rights,  title and interest in, to and under the Lease, (b) Assignee
hereby  accepts such  assignment,  and (c) for the benefit of both  Assignor and
Landlord, Assignee hereby assumes all of Assignor's obligations under the Lease,
and agrees to be bound by and subject to all of the  provisions of the Lease and
Landlord's rights thereunder and to timely perform all of the obligations of the
"Tenant"  under the Lease as though  Assignee  was named the  tenant  thereunder
during  the  entire  term of the  Lease.  From and after the "Rent  Commencement
Date",  as defined in Section  4.3 below,  Assignee  shall  cause all  utilities
servicing the  Premises,  the Building and the land to be placed in its name and
paid directly by Assignee to the provider thereof, to the extent required of the
Tenant  under the Lease.  Assignee  shall  reimburse  Assignor  for all  amounts
relating  to the  Premises,  the  Building  and the land  that have been paid by
Assignor for periods  following the Rent  Commencement  Date,  including but not
limited to insurance  payments  made to Landlord,  real estate  taxes,  Columbia
Association  assessments  and other  governmental  charges.  Landlord  agrees to
refund to Assignee  any amount paid by  Assignor  under the Lease for  Operating
Charges  and Real  Estate  Taxes in excess  of the  amount(s)  actually  due for
periods prior to the Rent Commencement  Date.  Assignee shall indemnify and hold
Assignor  harmless  from and against  any and all  liability,  loss,  damage and
expense arising under the Lease from and after the Rent Commencement Date.

          2.2 Effective Date;  Termination.  For the purposes of this Agreement,
the  "Effective  Date"  shall  be the date  Tenant  delivers  possession  of the
Premises to Assignee with the Delivery Condition Work (as defined in Section 2.4
below) substantially completed, except for minor "punch-list" items which do not
unreasonably interfere with Assignee's construction work in the Premises,  which
date shall not be earlier  than  October  31, 2005 nor later than  December  31,
2005. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Assignee's obligation to pay rent under the
Lease  shall not  commence  until the Rent  Commencement  Date.  Assignor  shall
deliver  possession  of the Premises to Assignee  following  the date all of the
following  conditions  have occurred:  (a) Assignor has vacated the Premises and
delivered the Assignor Fee (as defined in Section 2.3(e) below to Landlord;  (b)
Landlord's current Mortgagee for the Premises, The Provident Bank, has consented
in writing to this  Agreement;  (c) Landlord  and  Assignee  have entered into a
lease (herein,  the "Lease  Agreement"),  substantially in the form of the Lease
Agreement  dated July 1, 2005  (including  the Option to Purchase Rider appended
thereto giving Assignee a one-time right to purchase the Property [the "Purchase
Option"]) between Landlord, as "Landlord", and Assignee, as "Tenant", pertaining
to Assignee's  lease of the Premises  following the  expiration of the Lease and
continuing until May 31, 2018 (unless earlier terminated or extended as provided
therein);   and  (d)  Tenant  has  substantially   completed  or  caused  to  be
substantially  completed the Delivery  Condition Work, minor  "punch-list" items
excepted.  Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary contained in this Lease, if
on or before 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on the date which is fifteen (15) days after
the date of this  Agreement  either (i) Landlord  and Assignee  have not entered
into the Lease Agreement, or (ii) Landlord's current Mortgagee has not consented
in  writing  to  this  Agreement,  including,  without  limitation,  Mortgagee's
agreements  with Assignee to provide  notice and cure to Assignee,  and/or other
assurances   reasonably   satisfactory  to  Assignee,   effectively   preserving
Assignee's right to exercise its option to purchase the Premises pursuant to the
Purchase Option following a default by Landlord under its loan with Mortgagee (a
copy of which consent shall have been provided to Assignee),  or (iii)  Landlord
and  Assignor   have  not  executed  and   delivered  to  Assignee  an  estoppel
certificate,   in  form  and  substance  reasonably  satisfactory  to  Assignee,
certifying to Assignee that (1) the Lease is still in full force and effect, and
has not been further  amended,  modified or  supplemented,  except in accordance
with the terms of this Assignment;  (2) that neither Assignor nor Landlord is in
default of the provisions of the Lease, and that neither has any claim, defense,
or liability to the other which would be binding on Assignee after the Effective
Date,  (3)  setting  forth  and   confirming  the  respective   amounts  of  the
installments of real estate taxes,  Columbia  Association  assessments,  and all
other  governmental  charges of any kind and nature paid by Assignor to Landlord
(or directly to the applicable  taxing  authority)  for the current  calendar or
assessment  year,  and the  amounts of monthly  deposits  on account of Required
Insurance  paid to Landlord for the current year,  under Sections 5A and 13.1 of
the First Amendment to Lease;  and (4)  representing  and warranting to Assignor
that neither  Landlord nor  Assignor  (to their actual  knowledge)  has received
written  notice of any violation  from the ground lessors under the ground lease
encumbering   the   Premises,   or   from   any   governmental    authority   or
quasi-governmental  authority  (including,   without  limitation,  The  Columbia
Association,  Inc.,  and the Oakland Ridge  Industrial  Park  Association,  Inc.
relating to (x) the  delinquency of taxes,  dues or assessments  with respect to
the Premises,  (y) violations of zoning, fire or building code laws, ordinances,
covenants,  or rules with  respect  to the  Premises,  or (z) any other  written
notice  relating  to the  condition  of the  Premises or the  occupancy  thereof
(including   any   notice  of   proposed   governmental   action   regarding   a
"Condemnation"),  then this Agreement shall  automatically  terminate as of such
date, and neither party shall have any further rights or obligations  under this
Agreement.  The parties hereto agree to use commercially  reasonable  efforts to
satisfy the above contingencies within the said 15-day period. In the event that
such  contingencies  are not satisfied or waived by the party having the benefit
thereof,  then this Agreement shall automatically  terminate and have no further
force or effect,  except that upon the request of either party,  the other party
shall  execute and deliver an instrument  confirming  such  termination  of this
Agreement and notify Landlord of same.

          2.3  Landlord's  Consent.  Landlord  hereby  consents to the foregoing
assignment and  assumption,  upon the following  terms and conditions to each of
which Assignor and Assignee expressly agree:

               (a) such consent is given without  prejudice to Landlord's rights
under the Lease, as amended hereby;

               (b) neither the assignment or Landlord's  consent shall be deemed
to be the consent to or authorization  for any further  assignment or subletting
or parting  with or sharing  possession  or  occupancy of all or any part of the
Lease or the Premises;

               (c)  except as  expressly  provided  in this  Agreement,  nothing
contained  herein  shall  be  construed  as  modifying,  waiving,  impairing  or
affecting any of the provisions,  covenants,  and conditions in the Lease or any
of  Landlord's  rights or remedies  under the Lease or waiving any breach of the
Assignor in the due keeping, performance or observance thereof;

               (d)  Assignor  shall  remain  fully liable for the payment of all
rent and for the  performance of all of the  obligations of the Tenant under the
Lease from and after the Effective Date through the scheduled  expiration of the
Term of the Original Lease,  but in no event shall  Assignor's  liability exceed
its liability under the Original Lease,  as amended by the First  Amendment,  if
this Agreement were not entered into; and (e) contemporaneous with the execution
of this  Agreement,  (i) Assignor  shall pay to Landlord the amount of $6,500.00
(the  "Assignor  Fee"),  which  amount may be  deducted  from the cash  security
deposit held by Landlord  under the Original  Lease,  currently in the amount of
Forty-Three  Thousand  Nine  Hundred One and 67/100  Dollars  ($43,901.67)  (the
"Existing  Security  Deposit")  and (ii)  Landlord  shall  return the  remaining
balance of the Existing  Security  Deposit (after such deduction) to Tenant upon
the May 31, 2008  expiration or earlier  termination of the Original  Lease,  in
accordance with the provisions therein.

          2.4 Condition of the Premises.  The parties hereto hereby  acknowledge
and agree that the  Premises is and shall be accepted by Assignee in its present
"as-is"  condition,  and except as provided herein neither Landlord nor Assignor
makes any representations or warranties  whatsoever with respect to the Premises
or the condition thereof; provided, however, that notwithstanding the foregoing,
Assignor agrees that prior to delivering possession of the Premises to Assignee,
Assignor shall, at Assignor's sole cost and expense, cause the following work to
be completed in the Premises (collectively,  the "Delivery Condition Work"); (a)
Assignor shall remove  Assignor's  furniture,  trade  fixtures,  furnishings and
personal property from the Premises, and Assignor shall repair any damage to the
structural  components  and/or  mechanical/electrical/plumbing  systems  of  the
Building or exterior  shell of the  Building  caused by such  removal (and which
mechanical/electrical/plumbing  systems of the  Building  shall be in opera ting
condition as of the Effective  Date); (b) Assignor shall deliver the Premises to
Assignee  broom-clean.  Assignee acknowledges that neither Landlord nor Assignor
has  investigated,  and does not  warrant or  represent  to  Assignee,  that the
Premises are fit for the purposes  intended by Assignee or for any other purpose
or purposes  whatsoever,  and Assignee  acknowledges that, other than Assignor's
obligation to perform or cause to be performed the Delivery  Condition Work, the
Premises  are to be  leased  to  Assignee  in their  existing  condition,  i.e.,
"as-is", on and as of the Effective Date. Upon Assignor's delivery of possession
of the Premises to Assignee, Assignee shall conduct a walk-through inspection of
the  Premises,  at which time Assignee  shall notify  Assignor in writing of any
Delivery Condition Work items which have not been completed,  and Assignor shall
promptly thereafter correct any such incomplete items, but such incomplete items
(and the completion thereof) shall not affect the Effective Date which sha ll be
determined  pursuant to the  provisions  of Section 2.2 above.  Assignee  hereby
agrees that,  except for the Delivery  Condition Work,  Assignee shall be solely
responsible  for any and all  actions,  repairs,  permits,  approvals  and costs
required for the rehabilitation, renovation, use, occupancy and operation of the
Premises in accordance with applicable laws, including,  without limitation, all
governmental charges and fees, if any, which may be due or payable to applicable
authorities in connection therewith.

     3. Assignor's  Representations.  Assignor hereby represents and warrants to
Landlord and Assignee as follows: (a) the Lease has not been assigned, modified,
supplemented  or  amended  in any way by  Assignor  except as  provided  by this
Agreement; (b) the Lease and this Agreement represent the entire agreement among
the  parties as to the  Premises  and the  Assignment  of the Lease;  and (c) to
Assignor's  knowledge,  all  conditions of the Lease to be performed by Landlord
necessary to the  enforceability  of the Lease have been satisfied,  and neither
Landlord nor Assignor is in default thereunder.

     4. Amendment of Lease.

          4.1  Security  Deposit.  Within  three  (3)  business  days  following
Assignee's  execution of this Agreement,  Assignee shall deposit with Landlord a
cash  security  deposit  (the  "Security  Deposit")  in the amount of Fifty Nine
Thousand Dollars ($59,000.00). The Security Deposit shall be held by Landlord as
security for the  performance  by Assignee of Assignee's  obligations  under the
Lease assumed by Assignee  pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.1 above; such
Security Deposit shall be held and/or applied by Landlord in accordance with the
provisions of Article XI of the Original Lease.

          4.2 Tenant's  Address.  From and after the  Effective  Date,  Tenant's
address for notices  set forth in Section  1.9 of the  Original  Lease is hereby
deleted and replaced with the following:

                Bridgeway Community Church
                5840 Banneker Road, Suite 270
                Columbia, Maryland 21044
                Attention: Dr. David Anderson, Senior Pastor
                Facsimile: (410) 992-6761

And copies of any notice or other required  communication  under the Lease given
by Landlord to Assignee,  or by Assignee to Landlord,  after the Effective  Date
shall also be sent to Assignor at the following address, so long as Assignor has
any liability under the Lease:

                GSE Systems, Inc.
                7133 Rutherford Road, Suite 200
                Baltimore, Maryland 21244
                Attention: John V. Moran, Chief Executive Officer
                Facsimile: (410) 772-3599

          4.3 Assignee's Rent Commencement  Date. Subject to the satisfaction of
the  conditions  set forth in Section 2.2 above,  Landlord and  Assignee  hereby
agree that Assignee's  obligation to pay Rent under the Lease shall not commence
until the earlier to occur of (a) the date Assignee  commences  construction  of
the  renovations  described  in Section 4.5 below,  or (b) February 1, 2006 (the
"Rent  Commencement  Date")  and  further  agree  that  from and  after the Rent
Commencement  Date the term "Lease Year", as defined in Section 3.4 of the Lease
shall mean the 12 month  period  commencing  on the Rent  Commencement  Date and
expiring at 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time, on the day immediately  preceding the first
anniversary  thereof,  and each  successive 12 month period  thereafter  falling
within the Lease Term. For purposes of this Agreement,  effective as of the Rent
Commencement  Date,  Landlord  and Assignee  hereby  acknowledge  the  following
schedule  for the payment by  Assignee  of Base Rent under the Lease,  as hereby
amended:

          (a) First Lease  Year:  at the annual  rate of  $647,922.15,  in equal
monthly installments of $53,993.51 per month;

          (b) Second  Lease Year:  at the annual rate of  $667,359.81,  in equal
monthly installments of $55,613.32 per month; and

          (c) Third Lease  Year:  at the annual  rate of  $687,380.61,  in equal
monthly  installments  of $57,281.72 per month until the expiration of the Lease
on May 31, 2008 (it being  acknowledged  that the Third Lease Year shall contain
fewer than 12 calendar months).

Landlord,  Assignor and Assignee understand and agree that neither Base Rent nor
any other  amounts  that Tenant is obligated to pay under the Lease shall become
due and owing from Assignee under the Lease, as hereby  amended,  for the period
from the Effective  Date until the day before the Rent  Commencement  Date,  but
from and after the Rent Commencement Date Assignee shall become fully liable for
and pay as and when due all Base Rent and other amounts that Tenant is obligated
to pay under the Lease,  including but not limited to the Tenant's proportionate
share of Operating  Charges and Real Estate Taxes.  Until the Rent  Commencement
Date,  Tenant shall  continue to pay the Base Rent,  and all other  amounts that
Tenant is obligated to pay under the Lease, as provided under the Lease.

          4.4 Use of the  Premises.  From and  after  the  Effective  Date,  the
provisions  of Section  6.1 of the Lease  shall be  deleted,  and the  following
provisions  inserted therein in their place:  "Landlord hereby  acknowledges and
agrees  that  Tenant  shall  be  permitted  to use the  Premises  for  religious
purposes,  including its business office and worship facilities,  and for any of
the other uses  permitted  under the Final  Development  Plan Criteria for Phase
III-A of the Oakland Ridge Industrial Center in Columbia,  Maryland (herein "FDP
Criteria")   governing  the  Premises   (collectively,   the  "Permitted  Use").
Notwithstanding the foregoing to the contrary,  Tenant covenants and agrees that
in connection with the operation of Tenant's  Permitted Use at the Premises,  no
portion of the Premises shall be occupied or used,  directly or  indirectly,  at
any time, or from time to time, for:

               (a) a flea market, pawn shop, swap shop nr "outlet store" selling
merchandise  that is used,  damaged or  discontinued,  an auction,  liquidation,
distress,  bankruptcy  or  "going  out  of  business"  sale  or any  other  sale
suggesting that business operations are to be discontinued;

               (b) a fair,  carnival,  amusement park,  circus,  firing range or
fireworks store;

               (c) a massage parlor,  adult book store (which shall mean a store
which sells or offers for sale sexually  explicit  printed  materials,  audio or
videotapes or films and sexual devices),  adult video store, peep show store, or
topless or strip club;

               (d) a bar,  tavern,  pub,  discotheque or nightclub  (except that
parties involving dancing and music as part of and incidental to ordinary church
activities shall be permitted);

               (e) a facility for the sale of paraphernalia for use with illicit
drugs;

               (f) an off-track betting parlor or bingo parlor;

               (g) or car wash; a new or used car dealership,  gas station, auto
repair shop

               (h) any use of flashing,  traveling or rotating  lights or signs,
television or other visual or mechanical devices in a manner so that they can be
seen  outside  of  the  Building,  or  the  use  of  loudspeakers,   telephones,
phonographs,  radios or other  audio or  mechanical  devices in a manner so that
they can be heard outside of the Premises.

          4.5  Renovations.  Assignor shall have no liability with regard to any
alterations  performed by or for Assignee to the  Premises,  the Building or the
land upon  which the  Premises  and  Building  are  located.  From and after the
Effective Date, the provisions of Sections 9.1 and 9.2 shall be deleted in their
entirety, and the following inserted therein in their place:

               "9.1  Landlord is under no  obligation  to make any  alterations,
decorations,  additions,  improvements  or other  changes in or to the  Premises
(collectively,   "Alterations").   Subject  to  Tenant's   compliance  with  the
provisions  of Section 9.2 of this  Lease,  Landlord  hereby  agrees that Tenant
shall be entitled to perform Alterations on or about the Premises,  and Landlord
hereby  agrees  not  to  unreasonably  withhold  its  consent  to  (a)  interior
Alterations  made to the Building or  Alterations  made to the  entrances of the
Building as reasonably  necessary for the  conversion of the interior  warehouse
portion of the Building and the entrances  thereto in order to  accommodate  the
worship space for Tenant's religious services,  (b) interior Alterations made to
the Building as reasonably  necessary for the conversion of the interior  office
portion of the  Building to  accommodate  office,  classroom  and other  support
functions,  or (c) to the  contractors,  architects  and  engineers  selected by
Tenant to perform  such work.  In the eve nt  Landlord  shall  determine  in the
exercise of its reasonable  discretion  that any such  Alterations,  or any such
contractor,  architect  or engineer  designated  by Tenant is not  satisfactory,
Landlord  shall advise  Tenant in writing and shall state the  specific  reasons
therefor.  In any  event,  Landlord  shall  notify  Tenant  of its  approval  or
disapproval of any such Alterations and/or contractor,  architect,  or engineer,
as the case may be, within ten (10) business  days after  Landlord's  receipt of
Tenant's written request accompanied by the plans and  specifications,  name and
qualifications of such architect,  contractor  and/or engineer,  as the case may
be. If Landlord fails to notify Tenant of such approval or disapproval  and such
failure  continues  for five (5)  business  days  after  written  notice of such
failure  from  Tenant,  then  Landlord  shall be  deemed  to have  approved  the
Alterations and Tenant's designated  architect,  contractor or engineer,  as the
case may be, so  requested  by Tenant.  In the event that Tenant  increa ses the
amount of square  footage  contained  within  the  Building,  there  shall be no
adjustment in the Base Rent payable hereunder.

               9.2 Any Alterations  made by Tenant shall be made: (a) in a good,
workmanlike,  first-class and prompt manner and free of claims for  construction
liens; (b) using new materials only; (c) (if the Alterations will cost more than
$100,000)  by a  contractor  approved by Landlord  under the  supervision  of an
architect approved by Landlord); (d) in accordance with plans and specifications
prepared by an engineer  or  architect  and  approved  by  Landlord;  and (e) in
accordance  with  Laws and  requirements  of any  firm  insuring  the  Building.
Landlord's  approval of the plans and  specifications  for the Alterations shall
not be deemed to constitute Landlord's consent to subjecting its interest in the
Premises or the  Building to liens which may be filed in  connection  therewith,
and Tenant shall  promptly  discharge  any liens  imposed on the Building or the
Property as a result of Tenant's  Alterations.  Landlord (in its capacity as the
owner of the  Premises),  at  Tenant's  cost,  shall  cooperate  with  Tenant in
securing  building and o ther permits or  authorizations  required  from time to
time for any Alterations permitted hereunder."

          4.6  Assignor's  Rights  Upon  Assignee  Default.  Upon and during the
occurrence of a default in the Assignee's  performance of any obligations  under
the Lease,  as hereby  amended,  so long as Assignor has any liability under the
Lease,  Assignor  shall have the right to cure such default  (together  with the
right to enter upon the  Premises  if  reasonably  necessary)  at the expense of
Assignee.  In such event,  Assignee shall  immediately  reimburse  Assignor upon
demand for any and all costs  reasonably  incurred  by  Assignor  in curing such
default and Landlord  shall accept such cure for all purposes of the Lease as if
it had been carried out by Assignee.

               4.7 Miscellaneous Deletions.  Effective as of the Effective Date,
the following  provisions of the Lease are hereby  deleted in their entirety and
shall have no further  force or effect:  (a) Section 3.5 of the Original  Lease,
and (b) Exhibit B attached to the Original Lease.

     5. Brokers. Neither Landlord, Tenant nor Assignee has dealt with any broker
or agent in  connection  with the  negotiation  or execution of this  Agreement,
other  than  Transwestern   Commercial  Services,   and  Trammell  Crow  Company
(collectively, the "Brokers"), whose commissions shall be paid solely by Tenant.
Each party agrees to indemnify  and defend the other party  against and hold the
other party  harmless  from any and all claims,  demands,  losses,  liabilities,
lawsuits,  judgments,  and costs and expenses  (including,  without  limitation,
reasonable attorneys' fees) with respect to any leasing commission or equivalent
compensation alleged to be owing on account of the indemnifying party's dealings
with any real estate broker or agent other than the Brokers.

     6.  Authority.  Each party executing this Agreement  hereby  represents and
warrants to the others that:  (a) it is a duly  organized  and validly  existing
limited liability company,  partnership or corporation,  as the case may be, and
is qualified to do business in the State of  Maryland;  (b) such persons  and/or
entities  executing  this  Agreement are duly  authorized to execute and deliver
this  Agreement  on  behalf  and in  accordance  with  such  entity's  operating
agreement (if the entity is a limited liability company),  or such entity's duly
adopted  resolution  of its board of  directors  and by-laws (if the entity is a
corporation);  and (c) this  Agreement is binding  upon the party in  accordance
with its terms. Concurrently with Tenant's and Assignee's execution and delivery
of this Agreement to Landlord and/or within ten (10) days of Landlord's request,
Tenant or Assignee shall provide to Landlord a copy of any documents  reasonably
requested by Landlord evidencing such qualification, organization, existence and
author ization.

     7.  Entire  Agreement:  No  Further  Modification.  It  is  understood  and
acknowledged  that  there  are no  oral  agreements  among  the  parties  hereto
affecting this  Agreement and this Agreement  supersedes and cancels any and all
previous  negotiations,  arrangements,  agreements and  understandings,  if any,
among the parties hereto, relating in any manner to the amendment and assignment
of the Lease,  and none  thereof  shall be used to  interpret  or construe  this
Agreement.  This  Agreement  contains all of the terms,  covenants,  conditions,
warranties and agreements of the parties relating in any manner to the amendment
and  assignment of the Lease,  as provided  herein,  and except as expressly set
forth in this Agreement, all of the terms and provisions of the Lease, as hereby
amended, shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect.

     8.  Partial  Invalidity;  Separability.  If any clause or provision in this
Agreement is illegal,  invalid,  or unenforceable  under present or future laws,
then the remainder of this Agreement  shall not be affected  thereby and in lieu
of such clause or provision,  there shall be added as a part of this Agreement a
clause  or  provision  as  similar  in  terms  to  such  illegal,   invalid,  or
unenforceable  clause or provision  as may be possible  and be legal,  valid and
enforceable.

     9.  Applicable  Law; Venue and Forum.  This Agreement shall be governed by,
and  construed in  accordance  with,  the laws of the state of Maryland.  In the
event that any legal action  should be filed by either party  against the other,
the venue and forum for such action shall be the Circuit Court of Howard County,
Maryland.

     10. Waiver of Jury Trial. THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY KNOWINGLY,  VOLUNTARILY
AND  INTENTIONALLY  WAIVE  THE  RIGHT OF ANY OF THEM OR THEIR  RESPRESENTATIVES,
SUCCESSORS  OR ASSIGNS MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT TO ANY  LITIGATION
ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN  CONNECTION  WITH THIS  AGREEMENT OR ANY  AGREEMENTS
CONTEMPLATED TO BE EXECUTED IN CONJUNCTION  HEREWITH,  OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT,
COURSE OF  DEALING,  STATEMENTS  (WHETHER  VERBAL OR  WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF ANY
PARTY. THIS PROVISION IS A MATERIAL  INDUCEMENT TO LANDLORD'S ENTERING INTO THIS
AGREEMENT.

     11. Costs and Attorney's Fees. If any party hereto shall bring an action to
recover any sum due hereunder,  or for any breach hereunder,  and shall obtain a
judgment or decree in its favor,  the court may award to such  prevailing  party
its reasonable  costs and reasonable  attorneys'  fees,  specifically  including
reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in connection with any appeals thereof.

     12. Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts,
each of  which  is to he  deemed  original  for all  purpose,  but all of  which
together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

                    [SIGNATURES APPEAR ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE]

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed as of the day and year
first above written.

"LANDLORD"                              GSEM, LLC,
                                        a Delaware limited liability company

                                        By:  BFG Management 1999, Inc.,
                                        a Delaware corporation
                                        Its Authorized Manager

                                        By:_____________________________________
                                                Printed Name:___________________
                                                Its:____________________________

"TENANT" and "ASSIGNOR"                 GSE SYSTEMS, INC.
                                        a Delaware corporation

                                        By:_____________________________________
                                                Printed Name:___________________
                                                Its:____________________________

                                        By:_____________________________________
                                                Printed Name:___________________
                                                Its:____________________________

"ASSIGNEE"                              BRIDGEWAY COMMUNITY CHURCH, INC.,
                                        a Maryland religious non-profit
                                        corporation

                                        By:_____________________________________
                                                Printed Name:___________________
                                                Its:____________________________

                                        By:_____________________________________
                                                Printed Name:___________________
                                                Its:____________________________

EXHIBIT A
                           COPY OF ORIGINAL LEASE AND
                                FIRST AMENDMENT

                 [Attached as the immediately following pages.]

</EX-10>

<EX-14>
 3
 exh14_gsecodeofethics.txt
 EXHIBIT 14.1 CODE OF ETHICS
 
                                                                    Exhibit 14.1
                               GSE SYSTEMS, INC.
                 CODE OF ETHICS FOR PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                          AND SENIOR FINANCIAL OFFICERS

     It is the policy of GSE Systems,  Inc. (hereinafter the "Company") that the
Principal Executive Officer,  Principal Financial Officer (i.e., Chief Financial
Officer),  Principal  Accounting  Officer or Controller,  or persons  performing
similar  functions,  adhere to and advocate the following  principles  governing
their   professional   and  ethical   conduct  in  the   fulfillment   of  their
responsibilities:

     1. Act with honesty and integrity, including the ethical handling of actual
or  apparent   conflicts  of  interest   between   personal   and   professional
relationships  (e.g.,  avoid receiving improper personal benefits as a result of
his or her position with the Company).

     2. Provide full, fair, accurate,  timely, and understandable  disclosure in
SEC reports and documents and in other public communications.

     3. Comply with laws of federal,  state, and local governments applicable to
the  Company,  and the rules and  regulations  of private and public  regulatory
agencies having jurisdiction over the Company.

     4. Promptly  report any  violations of the Company's  Code of Ethics to the
appropriate person(s) identified herein.

     5. Act in a manner that shows accountability for adherence to the Company's
Code of Ethics.

     6. Act in good faith,  responsibly,  with due care, and diligence,  without
misrepresenting or omitting material facts or allowing  independent  judgment to
be compromised.

     7. Respect the confidentiality of information acquired in the course of the
performance of his or her  responsibilities  except when authorized or otherwise
legally obligated to disclose.  Do not use confidential  information acquired in
the  course  of the  performance  of his or her  responsibilities  for  personal
advantage.

     8. Proactively promote ethical behavior among subordinates and peers.

     9.  Use  corporate  assets  and  resources   employed  or  entrusted  in  a
responsible manner.

     10.  Do  not  use  corporate  information,   corporate  assets,   corporate
opportunities  or one's  position  with the Company for  personal  gain.  Do not
compete directly or indirectly with the Company.

     11.  Comply  in  all  respects  with  other  applicable   Company  policies
including,  but not  limited  to,  the  Company's  Insider  Trading  Policy  and
Non-Harassment Policy.

Reporting Violations

     If you have any concerns  about a possible  violation of the Company's Code
of Ethics,  it is your  responsibility to promptly report any such violations to
either the  Company's  Chairman of the Board or Audit  Committee.  Requests  for
confidentiality will be honored to the greatest extent possible, consistent with
the Company's legal  obligations.  If an investigation  confirms the allegation,
prompt   corrective  action  will  be  taken.  The  Company  will  not  tolerate
retaliation against persons making a report in good faith under this Policy.

Amendments/Waivers to Code of Ethics

     Any  amendment to, or waiver of, the Code of Ethics must be approved by the
board of directors or a board  committee  responsible  for corporate  governance
matters. The Company is required to promptly disclose amendments to, and waivers
of, the Code of Ethics for its principal  executive officer and senior financial
officers.  These  disclosures  must be made within five business days after such
amendment or waiver on Form 8-K filed with the SEC.

</EX-14>

<EX-21>
 4
 exh21.txt
 SUBS
 
                                                                    Exhibit 21.1

                SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT AT DECEMBER 31, 2005

The companies listed below are directly or indirectly owned 100% by GSE Systems,
Inc. and are included in its consolidated financial statements.

*    GSE Engineering Systems (Beijing) Company Ltd., GSE Erudite Software, Inc.,
     GSE Power Systems AB, GSE Process  Solutions,  Inc.,  GSE Services  Company
     L.L.C. and MSHI, Inc., are wholly owned subsidiaries of GSE Systems, Inc.

*    GSE  Government  & Military  Simulation  Systems,  Inc.  is a wholly  owned
     subsidiary of GSE Power Systems, Inc. which is a wholly owned subsidiary of
     MSHI, Inc.

*    GSE  Process  Solutions  BV is a wholly  owned  Subsidiary  of GSE  Process
     Solutions, Inc.

Name                                      Place of Incorporation or Organization
- ------                                  ----------------------------------------
GSE Engineering Systems (Beijing) Company, Ltd         Peoples Republic of China
GSE Erudite Software, Inc.                             State of Delaware
GSE Power Systems AB                                   Sweden
GSE Process Solutions, Inc.                            State of Delaware
GSE Services Company L.L.C.                            State of Delaware
MSHI, Inc.                                             State of Virginia
GSE Government & Military Simulation Systems, Inc.     State of Delaware
GSE Power Systems, Inc.                                State of Delaware
GSE Process Solutions, BV                              Netherlands

</EX-21>

<EX-24>
 5
 exh24_1.txt
 POWER OF  ATTORNEY
 
                                  Exhibit 24.1
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned  Officers and Directors
of GSE Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation, hereby constitute and appoint John
Moran and Jeffery G.  Hough,  and each of them,  the true and lawful  agents and
attorneys-in-fact  of the  undersigned  with full  power and  authority  in said
agents and  attorneys-in-fact,  and in any one or both of them,  to sign for the
undersigned  and in their  respective  names as Officers  and  Directors  of the
Corporation,  the Annual Report of Form 10-K of the Corporation to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission,  Washington,  D.C., under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any amendment or amendments to such Annual
Report,  hereby  ratifying  and  confirming  all acts  taken by such  agents and
attorneys-in-fact,  or any one or more of them, as herein authorized. This Power
of  Attorney,  which is dated as of March 17,  2006,  may be  executed in any
number of  counterparts,  and such  signatures  may be by means of  facsimile or
other means of transmission.

        Name                                            Title

/s/ Jerome I. Feldman
- ------------------------------              Chairman of the Board
Jerome I. Feldman

/s/ John V. Moran
- ------------------------------              Chief Executive Officer and Director
John V.  Moran                              (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Michael D. Feldman
- ------------------------------              Executive Vice President and
Michael D. Feldman                          Director

/s/ Jeffery G. Hough
- ------------------------------              Senior Vice President and Chief
Jeffery G. Hough                            Financial Officer (Principal
                                            Financial and Accounting Officer)

/s/ Sheldon L. Glashow, Ph.D.
- ------------------------------              Director
Sheldon L. Glashow, Ph.D.

/s/ Scott N. Greenberg
- ------------------------------              Director
Scott N. Greenberg

/s/ Roger L. Hagengruber, Ph.D.
- ------------------------------              Director
Roger L. Hagengruber, Ph.D.

/s/ Andrea Kantor
- ------------------------------              Director
Andrea Kantor

/s/ Joseph W. Lewis
- ------------------------------              Director
Joseph W. Lewis

/s/ George J. Pedersen
- ------------------------------              Director
George J. Pedersen

/s/ Douglas Sharp
- ------------------------------              Director
Douglas Sharp

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 6
 exh31_1morancert.txt
 MORAN CERTIFICATION
 
                                                                    Exhibit 31.1
                                 CERTIFICATION

I, John V. Moran, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of GSE Systems, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based  on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.  The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I  are  responsible  for
establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal  control over financial
reporting  (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f) and  15d-15(f))  for the
registrant and have:

a)  Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  or  caused  such
     disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
     ensure that material information relating to the registrant,  including its
     consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made  known to us by  others  within  those
     entities,  particularly  during the period in which this  annual  report is
     being prepared;

     b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting,  or caused such
     internal  control  over  financial  reporting  to  be  designed  under  our
     supervision,  to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of
     financial  reporting  and  the  preparation  of  financial  statements  for
     external  purposes  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted   accounting
     principles;

     c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure controls and
     procedures  and  presented  in  this  report  our  conclusions   about  the
     effectiveness of the disclosure  controls and procedures,  as of the end of
     the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
     over financial  reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
     fiscal  quarter (the  registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
     annual report) that has  materially  affected,  or is reasonable  likely to
     materially  affect,  the  registrant's   internal  control  over  financial
     reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed,  based on our
most recent  evaluation of internal  control over  financial  reporting,  to the
registrant's   auditors  and  the  audit  committee  of  registrant's  board  of
directors:

     a) All significant  deficiencies  and material  weaknesses in the design or
     operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
     likely to adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to record,  process,
     summarize and report financial information; and

     b) Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves  management or other
     employees who have a significant role in the registrant's  internal control
     over financial reporting.

                             Date: March 31, 2006

/s/ John V. Moran
                              -------------------
                                 John V. Moran
                            Chief Executive Officer
                         (Principal Executive Officer)

</EX-31>

<EX-31>
 7
 exh31_21houghcert.txt
 HOUGH CERTIFICATION
 
                                                                    Exhibit 31.2
                                 CERTIFICATION

I, Jeffery G. Hough, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of GSE Systems, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based  on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.  The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I  are  responsible  for
establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal  control over financial
reporting  (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f) and  15d-15(f))  for the
registrant and have:

     a)  Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  or  caused  such
     disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
     ensure that material information relating to the registrant,  including its
     consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made  known to us by  others  within  those
     entities,  particularly  during the period in which this  annual  report is
     being prepared;

     b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting,  or caused such
     internal  control  over  financial  reporting  to  be  designed  under  our
     supervision,  to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of
     financial  reporting  and  the  preparation  of  financial  statements  for
     external  purposes  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted   accounting
     principles;

     c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure controls and
     procedures  and  presented  in  this  report  our  conclusions   about  the
     effectiveness of the disclosure  controls and procedures,  as of the end of
     the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
     over financial  reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
     fiscal  quarter (the  registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
     annual report) that has  materially  affected,  or is reasonable  likely to
     materially  affect,  the  registrant's   internal  control  over  financial
     reporting; and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed,  based on our
most recent  evaluation of internal  control over  financial  reporting,  to the
registrant's   auditors  and  the  audit  committee  of  registrant's  board  of
directors:

     a) All significant  deficiencies  and material  weaknesses in the design or
     operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
     likely to adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to record,  process,
     summarize and report financial information; and

     b) Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves  management or other
     employees who have a significant role in the registrant's  internal control
     over financial reporting.

                            Date:  March 31, 2006

/s/ Jeffery G. Hough
                           ------------------------
                                Jeffery G. Hough
               Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
                  (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

</EX-31>

<EX-23>
 8
 exh23_1consent.txt
 EXHIBIT 23.1 CONSENT

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors
GSE Systems, Inc.

We consent to the  incorporation  by  reference  in the  registration  statement
(No.333-08805)  on Form S-8 and  registration  statement  (Nos.  333-126472  and
333-126108) on Form S-3 of GSE Systems,  Inc. of our report dated March 29, 2006
relating  to  the  consolidated   balance  sheets  of  GSE  Systems,   Inc.  and
subsidiaries  as of  December  31, 2005 and 2004,  and the related  consolidated
statements of operations,  comprehensive income (loss), changes in stockholders'
equity  and cash  flows for each of the  years in the  three-year  period  ended
December 31, 2005,  which report  appears in the December 31, 2005 annual report
on Form 10-K of GSE Systems, Inc.

/s/ KPMG LLC
Baltimore, Maryland
March 31, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-32>
 9
 exh32_cert.txt
 CERTIFICATIONS
 
                                                                    Exhibit 32.1

                           CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of GSE Systems, Inc. (the
"Company") for the year ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"),  the undersigned  hereby
certifies,  pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted  pursuant to Section
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to such officer's knowledge:

     (1)  The report fully  complies with the  requirements  of Section 13(a) or
          15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2)  The  information  contained  in the  Report  fairly  presents,  in all
          material respects,  the financial  condition and results of operations
          of the Company.

Date:  March 31, 2006

/s/  John V. Moran                      /s/  Jeffery G. Hough
- ----------------------                  ----------------------
John V. Moran                           Jeffery G. Hough
Chief Executive Officer                 Senior Vice President and Chief
                                        Financial Officer

</EX-32>

