<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_884719_0001104659-06-021374_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3416984</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>495265</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2174296</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>83</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021374.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331170841
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021374
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		20
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000884719
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT [3576]
		IRS NUMBER:				043144936
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11860
		FILM NUMBER:		06729901

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1370 DELL AVE
		CITY:			CAMPBELL
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95008
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4088668300

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 EtF9VGDkqjiD4d790o/xyptPeolO6/c0OMoFI/xq1D7P2NFYAn/0ivhMA7/VpqQI
 GfXmFz+2j9qx997pExRbgg==

 0001104659-06-021374.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-2037_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

U.
S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

For the transition period from                
to               .   

Commission File Number 1-11860   

FOCUS
Enhancements, Inc.   

  (Name of Issuer in its
Charter)  

Delaware   

04-3144936   

(State or Other
  Jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

Incorporation or
  Organization)  

Identification No.)  

1370 Dell Ave 
Campbell, CA 95008   

  (Address of Principal
Executive Offices)  

(408) 866-8300   

  (Issuer s Telephone
Number, Including Area Code)  

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of Act:   None 

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   

Title of Each
Class  

   Common
Stock, $0.01 par value   

Name of
Exchange on which Registered  

   Nasdaq   

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act. Yes:   o 
No:     

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Securities Act. Yes:   o 
No:     

Check whether the Issuer
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
other shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes:
     No:  o  

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Large accelerated filer:   o 
Accelerated filer:  o  Non-accelerated
filer:     

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b02 of the Exchange
Act). Yes:   o  No:     

Based on the closing sales price as of June 30, 2005,
the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second
quarter, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the registrant was approximately $31.9 million.  

As of March 17, 2006, there were 68.4 million shares
of common stock outstanding.  

Documents Incorporated by
Reference: None.  

INDEX   

PART I    

Item 1.    

Business   

3   

Item 1A    

Risk Factors   

9   

Item
  1B    

Unresolved Staff Comments   

15   

Item 2.    

Properties   

16   

Item 3.    

Legal Proceedings   

17   

Item 4.    

Submission of Matters to a
  Vote of Security Holders   

17   

PART II    

Item 5.    

Market For Registrant s
  Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Securities   

18   

Item
  6.    

Selected Financial Data   

19   

Item 7.    

Management s Discussion and
  Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

20   

Item 7A.    

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

33   

Item 8.    

Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data   

33   

Item 9.    

Changes in
  and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

33   

Item 9A.    

Controls and
  Procedures   

33   

Item 9B.    

Other information   

34   

PART III    

Item 10.    

Directors
  and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

35   

Item 11.    

Executive
  Compensation   

38   

Item 12.    

Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters   

42   

Item 13.    

Certain Relationships
  and Related Transactions   

44   

Item 14    

Principal
  Accountant Fees and Services   

45   

PART IV    

Item 15.    

Exhibits and
  Financial Statement Schedules   

46   

SIGNATURES    

POWER OF ATTORNEY   

CERTIFICATIONS   

2  

Part I   

Item
1. Business   

Forward-Looking Statements   

Some of the statements contained
or incorporated by reference in this Report, including those relating to our
strategy and other statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon
or refer to future events or conditions, or that include words such as  expects, 
 anticipates,   intends,   plans,   believes,   estimates  and similar
expressions, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E
of the Exchange Act. These statements are not historical facts but instead
represent only the Company s expectations, estimates and projections regarding
future events. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and
involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, which
may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed in  Item 1A, Risk
Factors  found elsewhere in this Report. The nature of our business makes
predicting the future trends of revenues difficult. Caution should be used when
extrapolating historical results to future periods.   

Our actual results and financial
condition may differ, perhaps materially, from the anticipated results and
financial condition in any such forward-looking statements and, accordingly,
readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. We
undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise.   

General   

Incorporated in 1992, we develop and market
proprietary video technology in two areas: semiconductors ( semiconductor
products ) and digital media video systems ( system products ). We market our
products globally to original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ), and dealers and
distributors in the consumer and professional channels. Our semiconductor
products include several series of Application Specific Integrated Circuits
(ASICs), which process digital and analog video to be used with televisions,
computer motherboards, graphics cards, video conferencing systems, Internet TV,
media center and interactive TV applications. We market our ASICs through
semiconductor distribution channels. Our system products are designed to
provide solutions for PC-to-TV scan conversion, video production and
acquisition, digital asset management and digital signage markets. We market
our system products primarily through the professional channel. Our production
products include video scan converters, video mixers, standard and high definition
digital video disk recorders, MPEG recorders and file format conversion tools.
Our digital asset management system products include network-based video
servers, long-duration program monitors and capture/playout components. Our
digital signage and retail media solutions products include standard and high
definition MPEG players, servers and associated control software.  

Since our inception, we have emphasized gaining market
awareness for our products and increasing our intellectual property through both
internal market and product development as well as through acquisition. In
September of 1996, we acquired TView, Inc., a developer of PC-to-TV video
conversion semiconductor technology. We believe the acquisition was a strategic
milestone in our transition to the video convergence market. In July of 1998,
we acquired PC Video Conversion, Inc., a manufacturer of professional high-end
video conversion products. We later restructured this entity into a
Professional Products Research   Development group and consolidated its
operations into our corporate headquarters. Our PC-to-TV technology provides
sharp, flicker-free, computer-generated images on televisions for
multimedia/business presentations, classroom/training sessions, game playing
and Internet browsing.  

In January of 2001, we completed our merger with
Videonics, Inc. ( Videonics ), a leading designer of affordable, high-quality,
digital video post-production equipment, that developed and marketed products
for Internet production and streaming, desktop video editing and video
presentations. Following the merger, we took advantage of the complementary
strategic fit of the businesses to build attractively priced digital video
solutions for an expanded customer base. After the merger, new management executed
a restructuring plan which significantly reduced post-merger staffing in the
areas of operations, marketing, customer support and finance. In September
2002, we closed our facility in Chelmsford, Massachusetts, and Brett Moyer, our
former Chief Operating Officer, moved from Chelmsford to Campbell, California,
to accept the role as Focus  President and Chief Executive Officer.  

In February of 2004, we completed the
acquisition of COMO Computer   Motion GmbH ( COMO ), located in Kiel,
Germany, pursuant to which COMO became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Focus.
Founded in 1990 and incorporated in Germany, COMO develops, manufactures and
distributes digital video solutions. The acquisition enabled new features for
our entire video technology product line, including MPEG encoding, content
storage and digital asset management, and provides support for our European
distributors and customers.  

3  

In May of 2004, we acquired substantially
all the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Visual Circuits Corporation ( Visual
Circuits ) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization. Founded in
1991, Visual Circuits manufactured and developed integrated hardware, software
and network products. These products are used by us in digital signage and
enterprise media installations to manage, schedule, distribute, store and
present digital media.  

Our corporate offices are located at 1370 Dell Avenue,
Campbell, CA 95008-6604, and our Semiconductor group is located at 22867
Northwest Bennett Rd., Hillsboro, Oregon 97124. Focus  general telephone number
is (408) 866-8300, and our Worldwide Web address is http://www.Focusinfo.com.
Information contained on the Web site is not part of this document.  

Business
Strategy   

We currently derive
revenue from the sale of system products and semiconductor products. While we
believe that the semiconductor market may offer the best potential for future
growth, our digital media-related systems products remain an important and
substantial contributor to our growth. Our systems products provide digital
asset management, digital signage and digital media video production for
consumers and professional broadcast studios and for industrial applications.
According to surveys by iSuppli/Stanford Resources and Frost   Sullivan,
the digital signage market and digital asset management market, respectively,
which we entered through acquisitions in 2004, are expected to experience 20-30
percent growth through 2008.  

Although the video
production market is not experiencing the faster growth rates of digital
signage and digital asset management, it is actively going through a standard
definition video to high definition video transition, as well as experiencing
changes to file and distribution formats.  

Our semiconductor
products target the Internet appliance, gaming and home entertainment
industries and consist of ASIC chips used for PC-to-TV conversion by PC s,
graphics cards, set top boxes, and media and internet appliances. In 2005, our
Semiconductor group remained focused on the development of an Ultra Wideband
chip ( UWB ) design. We expect wireless home media and wireless USB to be the
first markets which will use our UWB chips in volume, as these currently are
the leading applications of high-bandwidth wireless chips. We plan to
vigorously pursue the semiconductor market for this technology in 2006,
building on our existing business in the commercial TV, portable media players,
video conferencing and Internet Protocol TV (IPTV) set-top box markets.  

We began research and development efforts on
developing UWB technology in 2002 for use in transmitting wireless video. UWB
is a radio technology enabling very high speed transmission of data over short
distances. We are a member of WiMedia, the industry standards setting trade
association group for UWB and one of the authors of the WiMedia specifications.
WiMedia is the industry trade association which is standardizing UWB
technology. We intend to invest a significant amount of research and
development efforts and dollars in UWB technology in 2006. Based on our current
development activities, we anticipate accepting orders for production quality
UWB chips in the second half of 2006.  

Our
Products   

We market two distinctive product lines: semiconductor
and systems products. Our system products, both professional and consumer,
target digital media video production, digital asset management, scan
conversion applications and digital signage. Our semiconductor products target
the video convergence market.  

Semiconductor
Products     

Our ASIC chips are custom designed for a specific
application rather than general-purposes like a microprocessor. The use of ASIC
chips improves performance over general-purpose semiconductors, because the
chips are  hardwired  to do a specific job. Our ASICs provide solutions for
customers who need high quality digital images on a television screen. The
PC-to-TV video convergence market exists as a result of incompatibility between
a PC s progressive scan image and a TV s interlace image. Our ASIC products
include the FS401/2/3, FS453/4, and FS455/6 series used for scaling, scan
conversion, Internet TV, Portable Media Players and interactive TV
applications. These chips, due to their features and applicability, are used in
many of our and third party consumer systems products. The following is a
listing of some of the applications for our chips:  

4  

Media Centers and Portable Media Players  

  Gaming Consoles  

  Graphic Design and Animation Hardware  

  Information Appliances  

  Interactive Home Entertainment  

  Interactive Television  

  PC Video Out (TV-Ready PC s)  

  Point of Sales Terminals  

  Set Top Boxes  

  Videoconferencing Systems  

  Television Broadcast and Video Design  

  Video Kiosks  

  Web Appliances  

  Automotive Video and GPS Systems  

The wide number of applications for our semiconductor
products provides the opportunity to grow our business for applications
requiring broadcast quality in electronics devices and components including
Internet set top boxes, Cable/DVD Player set top boxes, Internet appliances,
graphics cards and laptops.  

Our proprietary NTSC/PAL digital video co-processor
technology is for designers of video and large display monitor products, as
well as a variety of industrial applications. The FS401/2/3 series of chips are
advanced PC to TV processors with patented designs that dramatically improve
video quality while reducing costs for the manufacturer. The chips are marketed
to manufacturers of media players, scan converters, video-conferencing
equipment and commercial television OEMs including our own  consumer electronics product line marketed
under the TView brand.  

Our FS453/4 was originally designed for use in the Microsoft Xbox. Microsoft funded $2.1 million for the development of the FS453/4. In July of 2003, we began production shipments of the FS454 to Microsoft, to meet Microsoft s Xbox peak production period. Although we continued shipments in 2004, shipments were at significantly reduced levels when compared to the third and fourth quarters of 2003 and no shipments were made in 2005. In addition to compatibility with the Microsoft Xbox, the FS453/4 has broad applications in other products that need TV-Out, such as PC s, media centers and media adaptors. The chip provides normal TV and HDTV outputs, has a small footprint, and has low power consumption.         In July 2004, we began sampling the FS455/6. The FS455/6 uses the same technology as the FS454, but in a smaller (7mm x 7mm) ball grid array ( BGA ) package, which is best suited for applications where space is critical. Applications that can potentially use the FS455 include portable phones, portable media players, personal digital assistants (PDAs) and other small, portable devices.       

    System
Products     

Our systems product line
includes products in four main categories:  

Video Acquisition
and Production;  

                         Digital
Asset Management;  

                         Scan Conversion;
and  

                         Digital
Signage.  

Each of our product categories
have specific market segment focus, together, they offer a broad range of
digital video solutions for the specialized video consumer, videographer and
broadcast professional. Specific product functionality includes recording video
to disk, digital video mixing, digital video file conversion, encoding,
playout, presentation, and rich media management. We sell our products through
a network of distributors in more than 90 countries worldwide.  

Video Acquisition and Production.
   FireStore TM ,
is the first direct to disk recorder that can format the digital video format
into an instantly editable format for all major editing programs and then
record this to a standard IEEE-1394 computer hard drive at the time the video
is captured internally. Since 2003, we have constantly broadened the FireStore
product line. In 2003, we introduced the camera-mounted FireStore FS-3, and the
FireStore DRDV-5000 variation, which we manufacture for JVC Corporation. In
that same year, we acquired certain intangible assets of DVUnlimited, a small
Hungarian company, to integrate digital video file conversion programs into one
FireStore line as a suite of utility software. In April 2004, FireStore FS-2
Studio DTE recorder began to ship, and this was followed in 2005 by the
FireStore FS-4, a portable version.  

5  

The FS-4 base model now has
several variations, including FS-100, a custom model for Panasonic, DR-HD100, a
custom model for JVC, and FS-4 HD, a model that supports encoded HD/HDV
formats.  

Post-acquisition
intermediate steps in the video production process are served by our MX-4 TM 
family of digital video mixers.  

Digital Asset Management.    Our ProxSys TM 
family of digital asset management products, acquired in connection with our
acquisition of COMO, allows customers to upload, store, search, and playout
media and media-related data. ProxSys is sold through system integrators who
primarily target education, post production, medical, legal, and corporate
applications. Components of the ProxSys family include capture, 24/7 play,
storage, conversion, and 24/7 channel monitoring.  

Scan Conversion.    TView TM ,
our consumer line of scan converters, builds on PC-to-TV convergence
technology. TView products, which are sub-categorized Gold, Silver and Micro
for performance and description, convert any standard television into a large
screen computer display. The product line targets presenters, educators,
trainers and the expanding gamers market. The iTView Mac targets users of Apple s
iMac and eMac. The majority of the products in the consumer line integrate core
technology provided by our FS401/2/3 series of chips. The TView Gold product
accepts computer desktop resolutions up to 1600x1280 at millions of colors on
both Window and Mac platforms. Much like the professional products, TView is
offered in multiple forms including a portable version for mobile users.  

Digital Signage.   Our family of
products resulting from the acquisition of Visual Circuits enables customers to
manage, distribute, and present standard and high definition video and graphics
over networks using media servers, players and control software. Customers for
digital signage range from single channel solutions to enterprise-sized
deployments that involve hundreds of locations and channels. The family
includes our Mantis TM   HD MPEG
players, FireFly TM  SD MPEG players, and Media Messenger TM 
control software. In addition to these products, we also sell SD and HD MPEG
decoder PCI cards to a number of integrators that incorporate these into their
own OEM media products. 

Research
and Development   

We continue to invest heavily in research and
development. Of the $12.8 million invested in research and development in 2005,
approximately 72% was spent on our UWB chip development and support activities,
with the remainder supporting new products for the video production, digital
signage and digital asset management markets.  

Intellectual
Property and Proprietary Rights   

As of December 31, 2005, we held six patents and four
pending patent applications in the United States. Certain of these patents have
also been filed and issued in countries outside the United States. We treat our
technical data as confidential and rely on internal non-disclosure safeguards,
including confidentiality agreements with employees, and on laws protecting
trade secrets, to protect our proprietary information.  

Upon employment with us, employees and consultants are
generally required to execute agreements providing for the non-disclosure of
confidential information and the assignment of proprietary know-how and
inventions developed on our behalf. In addition, we seek to protect trade
secrets and know-how through contractual restrictions with vendors and certain
large customers. There can be no assurance that any of these measures will
adequately protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information or that
others will not independently develop products or technology that are
equivalent or superior to ours.  

Because of the rapid pace of technological innovation
in our markets, we believe that our success must generally rely upon the
creative skills and experience of our employees, the frequency of new product
offerings and enhancements, product pricing and performance features, a
diversified marketing strategy, and the quality and reliability of support
services.  

Marketing and
Sales   

As with most electronic equipment manufacturers, we
introduce new products and technologies at industry conferences such as the
International Consumer Electronics Show and the National Association of
Broadcasters Expo. In addition to attending these events, we also visit major
conferences in our target markets. It is our experience that attendance at
these  

6  

conferences adds to our name recognition and market
acceptance.  

Distribution   

In the United States and Canada, we market and sell
our products through the following channels:  

System products:  

                        national
distributors such as Ingram Micro, D H Distributing and DBL Distributing; 

                        third party mail
order resellers such as B H Photo and CDW; 

                        video Value
Added Resellers ( VARs  and 

                        direct to our
customers via our Web site; 

Semiconductor products:  

                        direct to our
customers; and 

                        sales through
OEM relationships. 

Internationally, our products are sold directly to
large semiconductor customers, resellers, independent mail order companies and
system and semiconductor distributors in numerous countries, including France,
the United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Australia, Mexico, Japan,
Taiwan, Hong Kong, China, Singapore, the Republic of Korea and in Scandinavia.  

Customer
Support   

We believe that our
future success will depend, in part, upon the continued strength of our
customer relationships. In an effort to ensure customer satisfaction, we
currently provide customer service and technical support through a
five-days-per-week telephone service. We use 800 telephone numbers for customer
service and a local telephone number for technical support for which the
customer pays the phone charge. The customer service and support lines are
currently staffed by technicians who provide advice free of charge to ensure
customer satisfaction and obtain valuable feedback on new product concepts. In
order to educate our telephone support personnel, we periodically conduct
in-house training programs and seminars on new products and technology advances
in the industry. We offer this base level of support to our entire domestic
market including direct market customers that purchase our products through
computer superstores or system integrators. Internationally, we also provide
technical support to international resellers and distributors who, in turn,
give local support to their customers.  

We provide our system customers
with a 90-day to three-year warranty on all products and will repair or replace
a defective product under warranty coverage. The majority of defective product
returns are repaired or replaced and returned to customers within ten business
days. In addition, we sell extended warranty and enhanced warranty services.
For selected professional products, we offer advanced support warranty contracts
that may include 24/7 support  hot lines , installation, and training.  

Our Semiconductor group
provides application support to its customers through its own application
engineers located in the United States and in Taiwan, as well as through application
engineers employed by our representatives and distributors. We replace those ASIC
chips that are proven to be defective at the time of installation by our
customers.  

Competition   

The video technology market is intensely competitive
and characterized by rapid technological innovations. At times this has
resulted in new product introductions over relatively short time periods with
frequent advances in price/performance ratios. Competitive factors in these
markets include product performance, functionality, product quality and
reliability, as well as volume pricing discounts, customer service, customer
support, marketing capability, corporate reputation, brand recognition and
increases in relative price/performance ratios for products serving these markets.  

We believe that our semiconductor products compete for
market share with the following companies in the following markets:  

Videographic
ASIC - Conexant Systems Inc., Philips Electronics, and Chrontel Inc.; and 

7  

UWB - Freescale
Semiconductor Inc., Alereon Inc., Wisair, TZero, WiQuest, and Staccato
Communications, Inc. and others 

We believe that our systems products compete for
market share with the following companies in the following markets:  

                        Video Acquisition and Production - Leightronix,
Shining, Datavideo and Editrol; 

                        Digital Asset Management   Artesia,
Cinegy, Harris, Dalet, and North Plains; 

                        Scan Conversion - AverMedia
Technologies, Inc. and ADS Technologies, Inc.; and 

                        Digital Signage - Enseo, Inc.,
Electrosonic and Sony Corporation. 

Some of our competitors have greater technical and
capital resources, more marketing experience, and larger research and
development staffs than we have. At any time, these competitors could have a
substantial adverse impact on our business.  

We believe that our products compete favorably on the
basis of product quality and technical benefits and features. We also believe
our products and company provide competitive pricing, quality, extended
warranty coverage, and strong customer relationships, including selling,
servicing and after-market support for our finished products. However, there
can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future
against existing companies or new entrants to the marketplace.  

Manufacturing   

We rely on subcontractors who operate under two
different models in manufacturing our systems products. The first utilizes
components that we purchase and then send to the manufacturer who in turn
manufactures board level subassemblies. The products that incorporate these
subassemblies are completed, tested and distributed to customers by us from our
facility in Campbell, California. This model provides for higher margin and
control in a lower volume product. The second subcontractor type is a turnkey
manufacturer who builds the entire product as designed and specified by us for
a fixed price. The turnkey house is responsible for component procurement,
board level assembly, product assembly, quality control testing and final
packaging. In addition, some board level assembly and testing for low volume
products is purchased through these turnkey houses. For certain commercial
PC-to-TV video conversion products, turnkey manufacturers ship directly to the
OEM customer and forward shipping information to us for our billing.  

Our four turnkey manufacturers accounted for 72%     of our manufacturing capabilities in 2005. One
manufacturer, based in Taiwan, supplies all of our scan conversion products for
the computer and display markets; another manufacturer in Minnesota provides
all of our digital signage products; a third manufacturer in Korea provides all
of our ASIC production; and a fourth manufacturer in California provides our
video mixer products. Under the turnkey model, quality control is maintained
through standardized quality assurance practices at the build site and random
testing of finished products as they arrive at our fulfillment centers.
Management believes that the turnkey model is appropriate for higher-volume
products and helps us to lower inventory and staff requirements, maintain
better quality control and product flexibility, achieve higher product turns
and improve cash flow.  

All customer returns are processed through our
fulfillment centers. Upon receipt of a returned product, a technician tests the
product to diagnose the problem. If a product is found to be defective, the
unit is either returned to the turnkey subcontractor for rework and repair or
is repaired by us and returned to the customer. The majority of defective
product returns are repaired or replaced and returned to customers usually
within ten business days.  

Personnel   

As of December 31, 2005, we employed 132 people on a
full-time basis, of whom 18 were in operations, 45 in sales and marketing, 54 in
research and development and 15 in finance and administration.  

Backlog   

At December 31, 2005, we had a backlog of
approximately $903,000 for products ordered by customers as compared to a
backlog of $1.5 million at December 31, 2004. We do not believe backlog for
products ordered by customers is a meaningful indicator of future sales for a
particular time period since the historical order patterns of our customers has
demonstrated that backlog is episodic.  

8  

Available
Information   

Our principal executive
offices are located at 1370 Dell Ave, Campbell, California 95008, and our main
telephone number is (408) 866-8300. The public may read and copy any material
we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, at the SEC s
Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington D.C., 20549. The
public may obtain information on the operations of the Public Reference Room by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site,   http://www.sec.gov  , which contains
reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding
issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  

Item 1A. Risk
Factors   

You should carefully consider the
following risks relating to our business and our common stock, together with
the other information described herein. If any of the following risks actually
occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be
materially adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could
decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock.  

Risks
Related to Our Business    

We have a long
history of operating losses.   

As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit
of $89.4 million. We incurred net losses of $15.4 million, $11.0 million and
$1.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. There can be no assurance that we will ever become profitable. Additionally,
our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory
paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year
ended December 31, 2005 with respect to substantial doubt about our ability to
continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include
any adjustments that might result from the outcome of that uncertainty.  

We will need to
raise additional capital, which, if through equity securities placements, will
result in further dilution of existing and future stockholders.   

Historically, we have met our short- and
long-term cash needs through debt issuances and the sale of common stock in
private placements, because cash flow from operations has been insufficient to
fund our operations. Set forth below is information regarding net proceeds received
recently through private placements of our common stock:  

Future capital requirements will depend
on many factors, including cash flow from operations, continued progress in
research and development programs, competing technological and market
developments, and our ability to market our products successfully.   

We received gross proceeds of $10,000,000 from the issuance of secured
convertible notes to a group of private investors in January 2006. While we
believe that these funds, along with the cash flow generated by our expanding
Systems business, should be adequate to enable us to complete our UWB
engineering development and launch commercialization of UWB products, depending
upon the results and timing of our UWB initiative and the profitability of our
Systems business, we may need to raise further capital in 2006. There can be no
assurance that sufficient funds will be raised. Moreover, any equity financing
or convertible debt financing would result in dilution to our existing
stockholders and could have a negative effect on the market price of our common
stock. Furthermore, any additional debt financing will result in higher
interest expense.  

9  

Our common stock currently does not meet the
minimum bid price requirement to remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If
we were to be delisted, it could make trading in our stock more difficult.   

Our voting common stock is traded on the Nasdaq
Capital Market. There are various quantitative listing requirements for a
company to remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, including maintaining a
minimum bid price of $1.00 per share of common stock and maintaining
stockholders  equity of $2.5 million. On November 23, 2005,  the
Nasdaq Stock Market notified us that for the previous 30 consecutive business
days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per
share price requirement for continued inclusion under Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. 

We have
until May 22, 2006 to regain compliance with the Nasdaq  Capital Market
$1.00 minimum bid price rule. If at any time before this date the bid price of
our common stock closes at $1.00 or more per share for a minimum of ten
consecutive business days, Nasdaq will notify us that we are in compliance with
the Rules. If we do not regain compliance within the allotted compliance
period, including any extensions that may be granted by Nasdaq, Nasdaq will
notify us that our common stock will be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market,
eliminating the only established trading market for our shares. We
would then be entitled to appeal this determination to a Nasdaq Listing
Qualifications Panel and request a hearing. 

In the event we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital
Market, we would be forced to list our shares on the OTC Electronic Bulletin
Board or some other quotation medium, such as the pink sheets, depending on our
ability to meet the specific listing requirements of those quotation systems.
As a result, an investor might find it more difficult to trade, or to obtain
accurate price quotations for, such shares. Delisting might also reduce the
visibility, liquidity, and price of our voting common stock.  

We are dependent upon a significant shareholder
to meet our financing needs and there can be no assurance that this shareholder
will continue to provide financing.   

We have relied upon the ability of Carl Berg, a
director and significant owner of our common stock, for interim financing
needs. Mr. Berg has provided a personal guarantee to Samsung Semiconductor
Inc., our contracted ASIC manufacturer, to secure our working capital requirements
for ASIC purchase order fulfillment and a personal guarantee to Greater Bay Bank
in connection with our $4.0 million accounts receivable-based line of credit
facility and $2.5 million term loan. In connection with these guarantees, Mr.
Berg maintains a security interest in all the company s assets, subject to the
bank s lien on our accounts receivable. There can be no assurances that Mr.
Berg will continue to provide such interim financing or personal guarantees,
should we need additional funds or increased credit facilities with our
vendors.  

We have a significant amount of convertible
securities that will dilute existing stockholders upon conversion.   

At March 17, 2006, we had 3,161 shares of preferred
shares issued and outstanding, and 6,063,865 warrants and 6,996,582 options
outstanding, which are all exercisable into shares of common stock. The 3,161
shares of preferred stock are convertible into 3,161,000 shares of our voting
common stock. Furthermore, at March 17, 2006, 769,947 additional shares of
common stock were available for grant to our employees, officers, directors and
consultants under our current stock option and incentive plans. We also may
issue additional shares in acquisitions. Any additional grant of options under
existing or future plans or issuance of shares in connection with an
acquisition will further dilute existing stockholders.  

Delays in product
development could adversely affect our market position or customer
relationships.   

We have experienced delays in product development in
the past and may experience similar delays in the future. Given the short
product life cycles in the markets for certain products, any delay or
unanticipated difficulty associated with new product introductions or product
enhancements could cause us to lose customers and damage our competitive
position. Prior delays have resulted from numerous factors, such as:  

changing
product specifications; 

                                                the
discontinuation of certain third party components; 

                                                difficulties
in hiring and retaining necessary personnel; 

                                                difficulties
in reallocating engineering resources and other resource limitations; 

                                                difficulties
with independent contractors; 

10  

changing
market or competitive product requirements; 

                                                unanticipated
engineering complexity; 

                                                undetected
errors or failures in software and hardware; and 

                                                delays
in the acceptance or shipment of products by customers. 

The development of
new, technologically advanced products, including our significant investment in
UWB, is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and
highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate
anticipation of technological and market trends. In order to compete, we must
be able to deliver products to customers that are highly reliable, operate with
the customer s existing equipment, lower the customer s costs of acquisition,
installation and maintenance, and provide an overall cost-effective solution.
We may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or
enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, our
new products may not gain market acceptance or we may not be able to respond
effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or
emerging industry standards. Our failure to respond effectively to
technological changes would significantly harm our business. Finally, there can
be no assurances we will be successful in these efforts.  

We rely on certain vendors for a significant
portion of our manufacturing. If these vendors experience delays in the
production and shipping of our products, this would have an adverse effect on
our results of operations.   

Approximately 72% of the
components for our products are manufactured on a turnkey basis by four
vendors: BTW Inc., Furthertech Company Ltd., Samsung Semiconductor Inc. and
Veris Manufacturing. If these vendors experience production or shipping
problems for any reason, we in turn could experience delays in the production
and shipping of our products, which would have an adverse effect on our results
of operations.  

We are dependent
on our suppliers. If our suppliers experience labor problems, supply shortages
or product discontinuations, this would have an adverse effect on our results
of operations.   

We purchase all of our parts from outside suppliers
and from time-to-time experience delays in obtaining some components or
peripheral devices. Additionally, we are dependent on sole source suppliers for
certain components. There can be no assurance that labor problems, supply
shortages or product discontinuations will not occur in the future, which could
significantly increase the cost, or delay shipment, of our products, which in
turn could adversely affect our results of operations.  

If we fail to meet certain covenants required by our credit
facilities, we may not be able to draw down on such facilities and our ability
to finance our operations could be adversely affected  .     

We have a $4.0 million credit line under which we can
borrow up to 90% of our eligible outstanding accounts receivable and a $2.5
million term loan. The various agreements in connection with such credit line
and term loan require us to maintain certain covenants. In the event we violate
the covenants and are not able to obtain a waiver for any covenant violation,
and/or remain out of compliance with a particular covenant, we will not be able
to draw down on the line of credit or term loan, and any amounts outstanding
under such line of credit or term loan may become immediately due and payable,
either of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition
and results of operation.  

Furthermore,
the restrictions contained in the line of credit and term loan documents, as
well as the terms of other indebtedness we may incur from time-to-time, could
limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital
needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. These
restrictions could also adversely affect our ability to finance our operations
or other capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that would be
in our interest.  

If we
are unable to renew or extend our existing line of credit or term loan when
they naturally expire, our ability to finance our operations could be adversely
affected  .     

We have a $2.5 million
term loan and a $4.0 million credit line facility with the same bank. Both
these credit facilities expire on December 24, 2006. If we are unable to renew
the term loan or credit line on favorable terms upon their natural expiration,
we would be required to immediately pay all outstanding obligations under such
term loan and credit line.  

11  

Repayment of the
principal amounts and interest due under these facilities could adversely
affect our other capital requirements, as well as our ability to finance our
operations on an ongoing basis.  

We depend on
a few customers for a high percentage of our revenues and the loss or failure
to pay of any one of these customers could result in a substantial decline in
our revenues and profits.   

For year ended December 31, 2005, our five largest
customers in aggregate provided 26% of our total revenues and as of December
31, 2005, comprised 45% of our accounts receivable balance. We do not have
long-term contracts requiring any customer to purchase any minimum amount of
products. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive orders of
the same magnitude as in the past from existing customers or will be able to
market our current or proposed products to new customers. The loss of any major
customer, the failure of any such identified customer to pay us, or to
discontinue issuance of additional purchase orders, would have a material
adverse effect on our revenues, results of operation, and business as a whole,
absent the timely replacement of the associated revenues and profit margins
associated with such business. Furthermore, many of our products are dependent
upon the overall success of our customers  products, over which we often have
no control.  

Our quarterly financial results are subject to
significant fluctuations and if actual revenues are less than projected
revenues, we may be unable to reduce expenses proportionately, and our
operating results, cash flows and liquidity would likely be adversely affected.   

We have been unable in the past to accurately forecast
our operating expenses or revenues. Revenues currently depend heavily on
volatile customer purchasing patterns. If actual revenues are less than
projected revenues, we may be unable to reduce expenses proportionately, and
our operating results, cash flows and liquidity would likely be adversely
affected.  

Our
markets are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively,
we must continually introduce new products, requiring significant influx of
additional capital.   

Many of our markets are characterized by extensive
research and development and rapid technological change resulting in short
product life cycles. Development by others of new or improved products,
processes or technologies may make our products or proposed products obsolete
or less competitive. We must devote substantial efforts and financial resources
to enhance our existing products and to develop new products, including our
significant investment in UWB technology. To fund such ongoing research and
development, we will require a significant influx of additional capital. There
can be no assurance that we will succeed with these efforts. Failure to
effectively develop such products, notably our UWB technology, could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

We may not be able
to protect our proprietary information.   

As of December 31, 2005 we held six patents and four
pending applications in the United States. Certain of these patents have also
been filed and issued in countries outside the United States. We treat our
technical data as confidential and rely on internal non-disclosure safeguards,
including confidentiality agreements with employees, and on laws protecting
trade secrets, to protect our proprietary information. There can be no
assurance that these measures will adequately protect the confidentiality of
our proprietary information or prove valuable in light of future technological
developments.  

There can be no assurance that third parties will not
assert infringement claims against us or that such assertions will not result
in costly litigation or require us to license intellectual proprietary rights
from third parties. In addition, there can be no assurance that any such
licenses would be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all.  

If we are unable
to respond to rapid technological change in a timely manner, then we may lose
customers to our competitors.   

To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and
improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our products. Our
industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user and
customer requirements and  

12  

preferences and frequent new product and service
introductions. If competitors introduce products and services embodying new
technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, then our
existing proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. Our future
success will depend on our ability to do the following:  

both
license and internally develop leading technologies useful in our business; 

                              enhance
our existing technologies; 

                              develop
new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and
varied needs of our prospective customers; and 

                              respond to
technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a
cost-effective and timely basis. 

To develop our proprietary technology entails
significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies
ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our proprietary technology and
transaction processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry
standards. If we face material delays in introducing new services, products and
enhancements, then our customers may forego the use of our services and use
those of our competitors.  

We typically operate without a
significant amount of backlog, which could have an adverse impact on our
operating results  . 

We typically operate with a small amount of backlog.
Accordingly, we generally do not have a material backlog of unfilled orders,
and revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked in
that quarter. Any significant weakening in current customer demand would
therefore have, and has had in the past, an almost immediate adverse impact on
our operating results.  

Our common stock price is volatile.   

The market price for our voting common stock is
volatile and has fluctuated significantly to date. For example, between January
1, 2005 and March 17, 2006, the per share price has fluctuated between $0.62
and $1.22 per share, closing at $0.66 on March 17, 2006. The trading price of
our voting common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject
to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following:  

actual
or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; 

                                                announcements
of technological innovations or failures, new sales formats or new products or
services by us or our competitors; 

                                                cyclical
nature of consumer products using our technology; 

                                                changes
in financial estimates by us or securities analysts; 

                                                changes
in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other multi-media,
video scan companies; 

                                                announcements
by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or
capital commitments; 

                                                additions
or departures of key personnel; 

                                                additions
or losses of significant customers; and 

                                                sales
of common stock or issuance of other dilutive securities. 

In addition, the securities markets have experienced extreme price and
volume fluctuations in recent times, and the market prices of the securities of
technology companies have been especially volatile. These broad market and
industry factors may adversely affect the market price of common stock,
regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of
volatility in the market price of stock, many companies have been the object of
securities class action litigation, including us. If we are sued in a
securities class action, then it could result in additional substantial costs
and a diversion of management s attention and resources.  

13  

We are
subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose
substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business.   

Some of our operations
are subject to state, federal, and international laws governing protection of
the environment, human health and safety, and regulating the use of certain
chemical substances. We endeavor to comply with these environmental laws, yet
compliance with such laws could increase our operations and product costs. Any
violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including
fines and penalties, and prohibit sales of our products into one or more states
or countries, and result in a material adverse effect on our financial
condition.  

Recent environmental
legislation within the European Union (EU) may increase our cost of doing
business internationally and impact our revenues from EU countries as we comply
with and implement these new requirements. The European Parliament has enacted
the Restriction on Use of Hazardous Substances Directive, or  RoHS Directive ,
which restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and
electronic equipment. We need to redesign products containing hazardous
substances regulated under the RoHS Directive to reduce or eliminate regulated
hazardous substances in our products. As an example, certain of our products
include lead, which is included in the list of restricted substances.  

Although we believe our semiconductor products now comply with the RoHS
Directive, certain of our systems products do not yet comply. We are in the
process of working towards compliance relative to these systems products but do
not expect all our systems products to meet the requirements of the RoHS
Directive by the required implementation date of July 1, 2006. This failure to
meet the requirements by the implementation date could result in our being
unable to sell certain products into the EU market until such compliance is
achieved and could also result in inventory write-offs if compliance is not
obtained in timely fashion. These circumstances could have an adverse effect on
our sales and results of operations.   

Any acquisitions of companies or technologies by
us may result in distraction of our management and disruptions to our business.   

We may acquire or make investments in
complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate
opportunities arise, as was the case in February 2004 when we acquired the
stock of COMO and in May 2004 when we acquired substantially all the assets of
Visual Circuits. From time-to-time, we may engage in discussions and
negotiations with companies regarding the possibility of acquiring or investing
in their businesses, products, services or technologies. We may not be able to
identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates in the future, or if we
do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make such acquisitions
or investments on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we acquire or
invest in another company, we could have difficulty assimilating that company s
personnel, operations, technology or products and service offerings. In
addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for
us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our
management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect the
results of operations. Furthermore, we may incur indebtedness or issue equity
securities to pay for any future acquisitions and/or pay for the legal,
accounting or finders fees, typically associated with an acquisition. The
issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders.
In addition, the accounting treatment for any acquisition transaction may
result in significant goodwill and intangible assets, which, if impaired, will
negatively affect our consolidated results of operations. The accounting
treatment for any potential acquisition may also result in a charge for
in-process research and development expense, as was the case with the
acquisition of Visual Circuits, which will negatively affect our consolidated
results of operations.  

We are exposed to potential risks
from legislation requiring companies to evaluate financial controls under
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires
that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls. We will be
required to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by December 31,
2006 if our market capitalization, adjusted for certain items, is greater than
$75 million on June 30, 2006, otherwise we must meet the requirements by
December 31, 2007. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expected
to be expensive and time-consuming. If we fail to complete this evaluation in a
timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot
timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and
a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure
to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in
their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to
meet our reporting obligations.  

14  

Risks
Related to Our Industry    

International
sales are subject to significant risk.   

Our revenues from outside the United States are
subject to inherent risks related thereto, including currency rate
fluctuations, the general economic and political conditions in each country.
There can be no assurance that an economic or currency crisis experienced in
certain parts of the world will not reduce demand for our products and
therefore have a material adverse effect on our revenue or operating results.  

Our businesses are
very competitive.   

The computer peripheral markets are extremely
competitive and are characterized by significant price erosion over the life of
a product. We currently compete with other developers of video conversion
products and with video-graphic integrated circuit developers. Many of our
competitors have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical,
marketing and human resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able
to compete successfully against existing companies or new entrants to the
marketplace.  

The video production equipment market is highly
competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, new product
development and obsolescence, evolving industry standards and significant price
erosion over the life of a product. Competition is fragmented with several hundred
manufacturers supplying a variety of products to this market. We anticipate
increased competition in the video post-production equipment market from both
existing manufacturers and new market entrants. Increased competition could
result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, any of
which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition
and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
compete successfully against current and future competitors in this market.  

Often our competitors have greater financial,
technical, marketing, sales and customer support resources, greater name
recognition and larger installed customer bases than we possess. In addition,
some of our competitors also offer a wide variety of video equipment, including
professional video tape recorders, video cameras and other related equipment.
In some cases, these competitors may have a competitive advantage based upon
their ability to bundle their equipment in certain large system sales.  

Recent corporate
bankruptcies, accounting irregularities, and alleged insider wrong doings have
negatively affected general confidence in the stock markets and the economy,
causing the United States Congress to enact sweeping legislation, which will
increase the costs of compliance.   

In an effort to address growing investor concerns, the
United States Congress passed, and on July 30, 2002, President Bush signed into
law, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This sweeping legislation primarily
impacts investors, the public accounting profession, public companies,
including corporate duties and responsibilities, and securities analysts. Some
highlights include establishment of a new independent oversight board for
public accounting firms, enhanced disclosure and internal control requirements
for public companies and their insiders, required certification by CEO s and
CFO s of Securities and Exchange Commission financial filings, prohibitions on
certain loans to offices and directors, efforts to curb potential securities
analysts  conflicts of interest, forfeiture of profits by certain insiders in
the event financial statements are restated, enhanced board audit committee
requirements, whistleblower protections, and enhanced civil and criminal penalties
for violations of securities laws. Such legislation and subsequent regulations
will increase the costs of securities law compliance for publicly traded
companies such as us.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

Not applicable.  

15  

Item 2. Properties   

The following table sets forth certain information
concerning the properties that we lease. We do not own any real property.   

We believe that our existing facilities are adequate to meet current
requirements and that additional space, if needed, can be readily obtained on
comparable terms.  

16  

Item 3. Legal
Proceedings   

From time-to-time, we are party to certain claims and
legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business of which, in
the opinion of management, do not have a material adverse effect on our
financial position or results of operation.  

Item
4. Submission Of Matters To A Vote Of Security Holders   

Focus
held its annual meeting of shareholders at its corporate headquarters located
at 1370 Dell Avenue, Campbell, California, on Monday, November 14, 2005.
Shareholders of record on September 30, 2005 were entitled to vote on matters
to be considered at the meeting.   

Following are the
proposals voted upon at the meeting, and the number of votes cast for, against
or withheld, as well as the number of abstentions for each such proposal:  

The following directors  terms continued after the
  meeting: N. William Jasper Jr., Carl E. Berg, William B. Coldrick and Michael
  L. D Addio.  

17  

Part
II   

Item 5. Market For Registrant s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Securities   

Trading
in our common stock commenced on May 25, 1993 when we completed our initial
public offering.  

Since that time our common stock traded principally on
the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol  FCSE . The prices per share
reflected in the following table represent the range of high and low closing
prices for the quarters indicated. The closing price of our common stock on the
Nasdaq Capital Market on March 17, 2006 was $0.66 per share.  

As of March 17, 2006, Focus had approximately 395 holders
of record and 68,351,202 shares of common stock outstanding on that date. As of
March 17, 2006, approximately 6,900 stockholders held Focus voting common stock
in street name. It is not possible to determine the actual number of beneficial
owners who may be the underlying holders of such shares.  

We have not declared nor paid any cash dividends on
our common stock since our inception. We intend to retain future earnings, if
any, for use in our business.  

In connection with our credit line and term loan
facilities with Great Bay Bank, we are prohibited from paying any dividends on
our common stock without the consent of Greater Bay Bank if we have any amounts
outstanding under our credit facilities with Great Bay Bank or if any credit is
available to us under such facilities.  

For information on equity compensation plans, see  Item
11. Executive Compensation - Existing Equity Compensation Plan Information   

See  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Stock Issuances,  for a
description of securities we sold during 2005 pursuant to one or more
exemptions from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  

Except as indicated therein, we relied on one or more
exemptions from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Securities
Act ), for each of the foregoing transactions, including without limitation the
exemption provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act and Rule 506 there
under. We have used, and will continue to use, all of the net cash proceeds
raised by the sale of unregistered securities for working capital.  

We did not repurchase any securities during the year
ended December 31, 2005.  

18  

Item 6. Selected Financial Data   

The following table presents selected historical
financial data of Focus for the periods indicated. The data should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, related notes and other
financial information of Focus in this Form 10-K.  

A number of items affect the comparability of selected
financial information as discussed below:  

The results of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2004 include the results of COMO and Visual Circuits from the
dates of the respective acquisitions and also include a charge of $300,000 for
in-process research and development expense associated with the acquisition of
Visual Circuits. 

The results of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2001 include the results of Videonics from the date of acquisition
and include a charge of $505,000 for in-process research and development
expense associated with such acquisition. 

19  

Item 7. Management s Discussion
And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations   

Certain Factors
That May Affect Future Results   

Discussion of certain matters in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K may constitute forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, (the  Securities Act ) and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ) and, as such, may involve risks
and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain
assumptions and describe future plans, strategies, and expectations, are
generally identifiable by the use of words or phrases such as  believe ,  plan ,
 expect ,  intend ,  anticipate ,  estimate ,  project ,  forecast ,  may
increase ,  may fluctuate ,  may improve  and similar expressions or future or
conditional verbs such as  will ,  should ,  would , and  could .  

In
particular, statements contained in this document that are not historical facts
(including, but not limited to, statements concerning anticipated revenues,
anticipated operating expense levels, potential new products and orders, and
expected expense levels relative to our total revenues) constitute
forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our actual results of
operations and financial condition have varied, and may in the future vary,
significantly from those stated in any forward-looking statements. Factors that
may cause such differences include, without limitation, the availability of
capital to fund our future cash needs, reliance on major customers, history of
operating losses, market acceptance of our products, the unpredictability of
costs and time to develop new technologies and products, technological
obsolescence, competition, successful integration of acquisitions, component
supply problems, protection of proprietary information, as well as the accuracy
of our internal estimates of revenue and operating expense levels. For a
discussion of these factors and some of the factors that might cause such a
difference see also  Item 1A. Risk Factors.  These factors should be considered
in evaluating the forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be
placed on such statements. We do not undertake, and specifically disclaim any
obligations, to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences or
unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statements.  

Critical Accounting Policies   

The following discussion and analysis of our financial
condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial
statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure
of contingent liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including
those related to contract revenues, customer programs and incentives, product
returns, accounts receivable allowances, inventory valuation allowances,
warranty accruals, deferred tax asset valuation allowances, recoverability of
capitalized software development costs, the value of equity instruments issued
for services, the recoverability of goodwill and other intangibles related to
acquisitions, contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical
experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making
judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  

We believe the following
critical accounting policies affect the more significant judgments and
estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We
record estimated reductions to revenue for product returns based primarily on
historical return rates, return policies and price protection arrangements. In
addition, we sometimes accept returns for stock balancing and negotiate
accommodations with customers, which include price discounts, credits and
returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. If market
conditions for our products were to decline, we could experience an increase in
the volume of returns and our reported revenues would be affected accordingly.
However, currently only a limited number of our consumer channel distributors
have return rights under their agreements with us. In connection with these
agreements, distributors may return or exchange slow moving inventory held by
that distributor. However, these return rights are limited to 25% of the
distributor s prior quarter purchases. We recognize contract revenue and profit
as work progresses on long-term, fixed price contracts using the
percentage-of-completion method, which relies on estimates of total expected
contract revenue and costs. We use this method since reasonably dependable
estimates of the revenue and costs applicable to various stages of the contract
can be made. Recognized revenues and profit are subject to revisions as a contract
progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are charged to income
in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision became known.  

20  

We maintain allowances
for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our
customers to make required payments. We assess collectibility based on a number
of factors, including credit-worthiness and past transaction history with the
customer. Although collateral is generally not requested, in certain situations
we will require confirmed letters of credit or cash in advance of shipping to
our customers. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate,
resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional
allowances may be required.  

We provide for the
estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. While
we engage in product quality programs and processes, including actively
monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers, our warranty
obligation is affected by component and product failure rates. Should actual
product failure rates differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated
warranty liability would be required.  

We write down our
inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the
difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based
upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market
conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional inventory
write-downs may be required.  

Our policy on capitalized
software costs determines the timing of our recognition of certain development
costs. In addition, this policy determines whether the cost is classified as
development expense or cost of revenues. We use professional judgment in
determining whether development costs meet the criteria for immediate expense
or capitalization.  

Our business acquisitions
have resulted in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the
possible future impairment expense that we may incur, and in the case of
intangible assets, the amount of future period amortization expense. In
assessing the recoverability of our goodwill and other intangibles we must make
assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to
determine the fair value of the respective assets. If these estimates or their
related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record
impairment charges for these assets which will reduce their value and could
affect current period reported earnings. We performed our annual impairment
assessment of goodwill and intangible assets in the fourth quarter of 2005.  

We record a valuation
allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely
than not to be realized. In the event we were to determine that we would be
able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded
amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would increase income in the
period such determination was made.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

Overview   

In 2005, we began to reap
the benefits of our technology investments and the Systems group acquisitions
of COMO and Visual Circuits that we made in 2004. Overall company revenue grew
23% year-over-year with the Systems group growing 28%.   

The main drivers of the
Systems revenue growth were our FireStore product line and expanded sales in
Europe of all products. The previously anticipated industry trend to high
definition ( HD ) video format and the need for greater storage capacity in a
digital world are driving increased demand for our systems products.
Professional and pro-sumer videographers are using HD more frequently in their
recording and post-production activities, and Focus  products offer significant
productivity gains. The growing number of daily network and cable telecasts,
movies and other special programming now coming in HD, bodes well for demand in
this key market segment.  

In 2005, the
Semiconductor group substantially expanded its customer base and target
markets, which compensated for the termination of Microsoft s Xbox business in
2004. As digital media is being transported through an ever increasing number
of devices, demand for semiconductor convergence chips, like those of our
Semiconductor group, is appearing in virtually every part of the electronics
sector, including, among other products, end products for IPTV set-top boxes,
portable media players, automotive and mobile entertainment, medical imaging,
handheld GPS systems, and cell phones.    

The impact of new
products and increased revenue increased our absolute gross margin by 4.3%,
from 32.5% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 36.8% for the year ended
December 31, 2005.    

21  

Continuing the
significant investment which began in 2004, the majority of our Semiconductor
group s resources was invested in the development of our UWB technology. The
Semiconductor group increased staffing from the year ended December 31, 2004 in
connection with its work on UWB and continued with its development agreements.
As such, our Semiconductor group s research and development expenses increased
$4.5 million, or 97%, from 2004. In 2005, significant progress was made in
developing our UWB wireless video technology. In September of 2005, we
accomplished the first major milestone with the tape out of the analog chip and
we received working samples of that chip in November of 2005. The digital chip,
the second chip of our two chip chip-set, was taped out in March of 2006. We
expect working samples in the second quarter of 2006.  

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to year
ended December 31, 2004   

Net revenue    

Revenue for the year
ended December 31, 2005 was $24.6 million, an increase of $4.5 million compared
with the year ended December 31, 2004.  

For the year ended
December 31, 2005, sales of system products were approximately $21.1 million
compared to $16.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of
$4.6 million or 28%. This increase in sales of our system products mainly
reflects the introduction of a new variation of FireStore   the FS-4 - and
sales of products acquired through the acquisitions of COMO in February 2004
and Visual Circuits in May 2004, partially offset by a decrease in sales of our
consumer scan conversion and home theater products. Our consumer scan
conversion product sales have decreased in recent years as an increasing number
of personal computers and televisions now incorporate scan conversion
technology. We discontinued our home theater line in 2004.  

Sales of semiconductor
products to distributors and OEM customers were approximately $3.4 million in
the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $3.5 million for 2004. The $59,000
decrease in sales of semiconductor products (approximately 1.7%) mainly reflects
a $1.0 million decrease in sales of our FS454 chip, partially offset by
production ramps in 2005 for internet protocol television (IPTV) set-top boxes
and portable media players by our customers incorporating our chips in their
device designs. The decrease in sales of our FS454 chip was primarily due to
Microsoft ceasing significant orders for the FS454 in January 2004. The FS454
had been used by Microsoft in its Xbox.  

At December 31, 2005, we
had a backlog of approximately $903,000 for products ordered by customers,
compared to a backlog of $1.5 million at December 31, 2004. The decrease
between December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 reflects orders for our digital
video mixer and FireStore products at December 31, 2004, reflecting delays in
these new product releases until the first quarter of 2005. Our backlog orders
frequently vary and are not indicative of quarterly performance for the
products reflected in such order backlogs.  

22  

Gross
margin    

Our
gross margin rate for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased by 4.3
percentage points to 36.8% from 32.5% in the year ended December 31, 2004.  

The
increase in gross margin rate mainly reflects increased sales volumes, the
below average gross margin business that we had conducted with Microsoft in the
three months ended March 31, 2004, which did not occur in the year ended
December 31, 2005, $667,000 of inventory acquired from COMO and Visual Circuits
and sold in 2004 at low margin, and an accrual in 2004 of $100,000 for a
royalty payment based on the achievement of certain sales volumes. These
factors were partially offset by the increase in sales discounts and low-margin
chip sales to one customer in the year ended December 31, 2005.  

Operating expenses    

Sales, marketing and support    

Sales, marketing and
support expenses for year ended December 31, 2005 were $6.7 million, compared
to $4.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $1.8
million or 37.4% from the prior year.  

The increase in sales, marketing and support expenses
mainly reflects an increase in salary expense of $900,000 resulting from an
overall increase in headcount of 13 in our business development and customer
support departments and Semiconductor group. Also contributing to the increase
sales, marketing and support expenses were additional advertising expenses of
$340,000 associated with introductions of our new FS-4 and mixer products, and
increased sales and representative commission expense of $390,000 as a result
of increased revenues attributable to our new products. The increase in sales,
marketing and support expenses also reflects, to a lesser extent, the inclusion
of Visual Circuits and COMO s sales and marketing expenses for the entire
period. Visual Circuits  and COMO s expenses were only partially included in
the year ended December 31, 2004 as the respective acquisitions occurred on May
28, 2004 and February 27, 2004, respectively.  

General and administrative    

General and
administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $4.1 million,
compared to $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $949,000
or 30.5%.  

23  

The increase in general and administrative expenses
was mainly due to an increase in personnel and personnel-related costs of $613,000,
mainly reflecting the addition of three employees, stock compensation charges
of $311,000 related to restricted stock and warrants expensed in 2005, and the
extension of employee stock options in 2005.  

Research and development    

Research and development expenses for the
year ended December 31, 2005 were $12.8 million, compared to $8.6 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $4.2 million.  

The increase in research and development expenses
reflects almost entirely our investment in UWB technology, which resulted in an
increase in research and development expenses of $4.5 million over those in
2004. This increased investment in UWB consisted mainly of an increase in
semiconductor design service fees of $2.2 million, increased personnel costs of
$1.4 million, reflect 13 employees hired during the later part of 2004 and six
additional employees hired during 2005, and an increase in direct material and
prototyping costs of $632,000. In 2006, to complete the UWB products we plan
continued significant investment in the development of the UWB technology - see
note 2,  Management s Plans . The increase in research and development expenses
in the year ended December 31, 2005, was partially offset by expense reductions
in our Systems business  research and development activities mainly reflecting
decreased prototyping material costs.  

Amortization   

Amortization expense was
recorded as follows:  

Amortization expense for the year ended December 31,
2005 was $711,000, a decrease of $298,000 or 29.8% from $1.0 million in such
expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in amortization
expense reflects the completion of amortization for certain intangible assets
associated with the acquisition of Videonics, partially offset by an increase
in amortization expense associated with the intangible assets purchased in the
acquisitions of COMO in February 2004 and Visual Circuits in May 2004.  

Interest expense, net and Other
expense, net    

Net interest expense for the year ended December 31,
2005 was $298,000, compared to $80,000 for the year ended  

24  

December 31, 2004, an increase of $218,000 or 172.5%. The
increase in net interest expense primarily reflects interest expense associated
with our accounts receivable-based line of credit and term loan, both of which
were not outstanding in 2004. The increase in net interest expense was
partially offset by interest expense on convertible promissory notes, which
were outstanding until their conversion into common and preferred stock in
March 2004.  

Other expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 consists
mainly of expense associated with exchange rate differences related to
transactions denominated in Euros.  

Tax benefit    

The tax benefit for the
year ended December 31, 2005 of $23,000 is comprised of a $47,000 tax benefit
generated by our foreign subsidiary, COMO, offset by a $24,000 tax provision
related to minimum tax payments due within the United States and other foreign
locations. The $47,000 tax benefit generated by COMO resulted primarily from
the tax benefit associated with COMO s 2005 operating losses and the reduction
of a deferred tax liability associated with the amortization of intangible
assets.  

The tax benefit for the
year ended December 31, 2004 of $282,000 is comprised of a $298,000 tax benefit
generated by our foreign subsidiary, COMO, offset by a $16,000 tax provision
related to minimum tax payments due within the United States and other foreign
locations. The $298,000 tax benefit generated by COMO resulted primarily from
the tax benefit associated with COMO s 2004 operating losses and the reduction
of a deferred tax liability associated with the amortization of intangible
assets.  

Year
ended December 31, 2004 compared to year ended December 31, 2003   

Net
revenue    

Revenue for the year
ended December 31, 2004 was $20.0 million, a decrease of $6.6 million compared
with the year ended December 31, 2003.  

For the year ended
December 31, 2004, sales of system products were approximately $16.6 million
compared to $14.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of
$2.6 million. This increase in sales of our systems products mainly reflects
sales of products of approximately $6.8 million resulting from the acquisitions
of COMO in February 2004 and Visual Circuits in May 2004, as well as the
introduction of new products, including new variations of FireStore, partially
offset by a decrease in sales of our consumer scan conversion and mixer
products. Revenue from mixer product sales has been trending lower from
previous years as video enthusiasts move from stand-alone editing systems to
computer based or non-linear editing systems. Also contributing to the decrease
in mixer revenue in 2004 was the discontinuation of third party components and
our inability to redesign our product in a timely manner. These  

25  

delays resulted in
periods during the third and fourth quarters of 2004 when we were without
certain mixer products. By January 2005, we had redesigned and were shipping
two new mixer products, thereby replacing the two previously discontinued mixer
products. Our consumer scan conversion product sales have decreased as an
increasing number of personal computers and televisions now incorporate scan
conversion technology.  

Sales of semiconductor
products to distributors and OEM customers were approximately $3.5 million in
the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to $12.6 million for 2003. The $9.1
million decrease in sales of semiconductor products mainly reflects
significantly reduced sales of our FS454 chip to Microsoft, which was for use
in Microsoft s Xbox. In January 2004, Microsoft ceased placing significant
orders for our FS454 product. Shipments of the FS454, which were primarily to
Microsoft, represented 10% and 37% of our total revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

At December 31, 2004, we
had a backlog of approximately $1.5 million for products ordered by customers,
compared to a backlog of $1.1 million at December 31, 2003. The increase
between December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 reflects orders for our digital
video mixer and portable FireStore product, offset by decreased orders of our
FS454 chip.  

Gross
margin    

Our
gross margin rate for year ended December 31, 2004 decreased by 1.7 percentage
points to 32.5% from 34.2% in the year ended December 31, 2003.  

This
decrease in the gross margin rate reflects an increase in write-downs for excess
and obsolete inventory of $498,000 in 2004 compared to 2003, $667,000 of
inventory acquired from COMO and Visual Circuits sold at low margin, amortization
of developed technology of $113,000 from the acquisitions of COMO and Visual
Circuits in 2004 and an accrual of $100,000 for a royalty payment based on the
achievement of certain sales volumes. These factors were partially offset by
the lower amount of Microsoft business in 2004 compared to 2003, which was at
below average gross margin. Sales to Microsoft were made at a gross profit
margin percentage of less than 30%, primarily as a result of volume discounts
provided.  

Operating expenses    

26  

Sales, marketing and support    

Sales, marketing and
support expenses for year ended December 31, 2004 were $4.9 million, compared
to $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $540,000.  

The increase in sales, marketing and support expenses
reflects an increase in personnel and personnel-related costs of $641,000,
resulting mainly from the addition of five employees, primarily from the
acquisitions of COMO and Visual Circuits in February and May of 2004,
respectively, partially offset by a decrease in advertising expenditures of
$83,000.  

General and administrative    

General and
administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004 were $3.1 million,
compared to $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $1.3
million.  

The increase in general and administrative expenses
was mainly due to an increase in personnel and personnel-related costs of
$755,000, mainly reflecting additional headcount of five employees, primarily
associated with the acquisitions of COMO and Visual Circuits, and a change in
classification of certain personnel from research and development in 2003 to
administrative roles in 2004, which amount was $284,000 in 2004. Also
contributing to the increase in general and administrative expenses for the
year ended December 31, 2004 were increases in public relations expenses of
$100,000 and accounting and auditing fees of $175,000.  

Research and development    

Research and development expenses for the
year ended December 31, 2004 were $8.6 million, compared to $4.3 million for
the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $4.3 million.  

The increase in research and development expenses
mainly reflects additional headcount of 36 employees, and associated
expenditure, related to our investment in UWB technology and acquisitions of
COMO and Visual Circuits in February and May of 2004, respectively. This
increase in our investment in UWB technology was the primary factor that
resulted in our Semiconductor Business increasing its research and development
spending to $4.7 million for 2004 compared to $2.3 million for 2003. These
increases in research and development expenses were partially offset by a
change in classification of certain personnel year-over-year from research and
development in 2003 to administrative roles in 2004.  

Amortization   

Amortization expense was
recorded as follows:  

Amortization expense for year ended
December 31, 2004 was $1.0 million, an increase of $432,000 from $577,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase in amortization expense reflects
additional amortization expense associated with the intangible assets that
resulted from the acquisitions of COMO in February 2004 and Visual Circuits in
May 2004. This additional amortization expense was partially offset by the
completion of amortization on certain intangible assets in 2003.  

27  

Restructuring Expense   

For the year ended December 31, 2003, we
reduced our restructuring expense accrual by $29,000 as we were able to settle
amounts due on the closure of our facility in Chelmsford, Massachusetts, for an
amount less than originally estimated.  

Interest expense, net and Other
income (expense), net    

Net interest expense for the year ended December 31,
2004 was $80,000, compared to $193,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003, a
decrease of $113,000. The decrease in net interest expense is primarily
attributable to lower interest rates and the conversion in March 2004 of
convertible promissory notes into common and preferred stock, partially offset
by interest expense associated with the notes payable and line of credit assumed
with the acquisition of COMO in February 2004.  

Other income for the year ended December 31, 2003 was
primarily attributable to the settlement of debts for less than original
amounts accrued for various trade vendor obligations that were incurred prior
to the year of settlement in the normal course of business, or which pertained
to liabilities assumed or related to the acquisition of Videonics in 2001. We
negotiated these settlements with vendors as a means of reducing our cash
outflows.  

Tax expense (benefit)    

The $282,000 tax benefit
is comprised of a $298,000 tax benefit generated by our foreign subsidiary,
COMO, offset by a $16,000 tax provision related to minimum tax payments due
within the United States and other foreign locations. The $298,000 tax benefit
generated by COMO resulted primarily from the tax benefit associated with COMO s
2004 operating losses and the reduction of a deferred tax liability associated
with the amortization of intangible assets.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES   

The accompanying consolidated financial statements
have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization
of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business.
For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we incurred net losses of
$15.4 million, $11.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively, and used cash in
operating activities of $12.5 million, $9.4 million and $2.6 million,
respectively. These factors indicate that we may potentially be unable to
continue as a going concern.  

The consolidated financial statements do not include
any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded
asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be
necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Our continuation
as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient
positive cash flows to meet our obligations on a timely basis, to obtain
additional financing as may be required, and  

28  

ultimately to return to profitability.  

Since inception, we have financed our operations
primarily through the public and private sale of common stock, lines of credit
and debt borrowings from financial institutions, proceeds from the exercise of
options and warrants, short-term borrowings from private lenders and credit
arrangements with vendors and suppliers.   

Net cash used in operating activities   

Net cash used in operating activities for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $12.5 million, $9.4 million and $2.6
million, respectively.  

Net cash used in operating activities of $12.5 million
in 2005 reflected our net loss, adjusted for non-cash items, of $13.7 million,
partially offset by changes in working capital of $1.2 million. Non-cash income
statement items included depreciation and amortization of $1.4 million, stock
compensation expense of $242,000 and the amortization of debt issuance costs of
$69,000. The changes in working capital were mainly due to an increase in
accrued liabilities of $816,000, primarily attributable to project expenses
related to our investment in UWB technology, and an increase in our accounts
payable of $512,000, which reflected the timing of our payments.  

Net cash used in operating activities in 2004 of $9.4
million reflected our net loss, adjusted for non-cash items, of $9.4 million,
partially offset by changes in working capital of $19,000. Non-cash income
statement items included depreciation and amortization of $1.2 million, stock
compensation expense of $42,000 and a charge for in-process research and
development expense of $300,000 related to our acquisition of Visual Circuits.
The changes in working capital were mainly due to an increase in accrued
liabilities of $474,000, reflecting project expenses related to our investment
in UWB technology, offset by a reduction in accounts payable of $509,000, which
reflected the timing of our payments.  

29  

Net cash used in operating activities in
2003 consisted primarily of a net loss of $1.7 million, adjusted for
depreciation and amortization of $743,000 and other income associated with the
settlement of debt of $239,000, and cash used in working capital of $1.4
million. The use of cash in working capital primarily resulted from an increase
in inventory of $1.1 million related mainly to inventory balances in newly
introduced products, including the FS454 and FireStore, an increase in accounts
receivable of $757,000, primarily related to the increase in revenues
associated with sales of the FS454 to Microsoft, partially offset by an
increase in accounts payable of $363,000 and an increase in accrued liabilities
of $279,000.  

In January 2004, Microsoft ceased placing
significant orders for our FS454 product. Shipments of the FS454, which were
primarily to Microsoft, represented 37% of our total revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2003. We recorded gross margins as a percentage of sales,
before commissions and selling expenses, of below 30% to this customer. The
loss of this customer had a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating
profit and liquidity in the year ended December 31, 2004, when compared to
2003. However, as the product was manufactured by one of our contract
manufacturers, we did not experience any significant adjustments to our
staffing or operations or significant adjustments to the carrying value of our
FS454 inventory, as a result of the loss of the Microsoft business.  

We expect that our operating cash flows
may fluctuate in future periods as a result of fluctuations in our operating
results, shipment timetable and accounts receivable collections, inventory
management, and the timing of payments among other factors.  

Net cash used in investing activities    

Net cash used in investing activities for
the year ended December 31, 2005 of $295,000 reflected capital expenditures of
$579,000, primarily related to our investment in UWB technology, partially
offset by a decrease in a restricted cash balance of $284,000. Net cash used in
investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 of $1.8 million
reflected net costs of $220,000 and $424,000 associated with the acquisitions
of COMO and Visual Circuits in 2004, and capital expenditures of $1.0 million,
primarily related to our investment in UWB technology. Net cash used in
investing activities in the year ended December 31, 2003 of $277,000 was related
to the purchase of property and equipment of $122,000, the acquisition of
developed technology from DVUnlimited, which resulted in a net cash outflow of
$57,000, and costs incurred with the pending acquisition of Visual Circuits and
COMO of $98,000.  

Net cash provided by financing activities   

Net cash provided by financing activities
was $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and consisted mainly of
borrowings of $3.0 million under our accounts receivable-based line of credit, net
borrowings under a term loan of $2.5 million, net proceeds of $4.5 million
received from private equity placement transactions in June 2005 and November
2005, proceeds of $509,000 from the sale of shares placed into escrow upon the
acquisition of COMO in 2004 and subsequently sold in 2005 and the reimbursement
of acquisition fees by Visual Circuits Corporation Liquidating Trust related to
the acquisition of Visual Circuits of $225,000, partially offset by repayments
of $516,000 related to our German subsidiary s line of credit balance. Net cash
provided by financing activities was $10.8 million for the year ended December
31, 2004, reflecting $10.7 million received from private equity placement
transactions, $129,000 in borrowings from a line of credit assumed with the acquisition
of COMO and $192,000 received from the exercise of common stock options and
warrants, partially offset by the repayment of debts that were assumed with the
acquisition of COMO of $280,000. Net cash provided from financing activities
for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $5.3 million, reflecting $1.9 million
received from private equity placement transactions and $3.4 million received
from the exercise of common stock options and warrants, partially offset by
$45,000 of capital lease obligation repayments.  

Capital Resources and
Liquidity Outlook   

We have incurred losses and used net cash in operating
activities in each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005,
and as such, have been dependent upon raising money for short- and long-term
cash needs through issuance of debt, proceeds from the exercise of options and
warrants, and the sale of our common stock in private placements. For the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we received net proceeds of
approximately $4.5 million, $10.7 million and $1.9 million, respectively, from
the sale of approximately 7.4 million shares, 10.5 million shares and 2.2
million shares, respectively, of our common stock in private placement
transactions.  

30  

In November 2004, we obtained a revolving $4.0 million
bank credit line under which we can borrow up to 90% of our eligible
outstanding accounts receivable, excluding accounts receivable of COMO. Carl
Berg, a Company director and shareholder, provided a personal guarantee to
secure this credit line. In connection with this credit line, the Greater Bay Bank
obtained a first priority security interest on our accounts receivable through
an agreement with Mr. Berg, which enabled Mr. Berg to retain his existing
security interest in all of our assets while subordinating to Greater Bay Bank
his security interest in our accounts receivable. The bank credit line is
subject to ongoing covenants, including a covenant related to operating
results.  Interest is
payable under this loan at prime plus 1% (8.25% as of December 31, 2005). At
December 31, 2005, there was an outstanding balance on this credit line of the
maximum available amount of $3.0 million. The credit line expires on December
24, 2006. 

On June 28, 2005, we signed a term loan agreement with
Greater Bay  Bank
under which we can borrow up to $2.5 million. The term loan has a maturity date
of December 24, 2006, is interest only until maturity and is in addition to our
existing $4.0 million accounts receivable based secured line of credit facility
described above with this same bank. Interest is payable under this loan at
prime plus 1% (8.25% as of December 31, 2005). At December 31, 2005, there was
an outstanding balance under this term loan of the maximum available amount of
$2.5 million. 

Subsequent developments   

On January 27, 2006, we raised gross proceeds of $10,000,000 from the
issuance of secured convertible notes to a group of private investors. While we
believe that these funds, along with the cash flow generated by our expanding
Systems business, should be adequate to enable us to complete our UWB
engineering development and launch commercialization of UWB products, depending
upon the results and timing of our UWB initiative and the profitability of our
Systems business, we may need to raise further capital in 2006. There can be no
assurance that sufficient funds will be raised. Moreover, any equity financing
or convertible debt financing would result in dilution to our existing
stockholders and could have a negative effect on the market price of our common
stock. Furthermore, any additional debt financing will result in higher
interest expense.  

Summary of
Certain Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2005   

Additionally, in December 2002, Mr. Berg
provided Samsung Semiconductor Inc., one of our contracted ASIC manufacturers,
with a personal guarantee to secure our working capital requirements for ASIC
purchase order fulfillment. Mr. Berg agreed to provide the personal guarantee
on our behalf without additional cost or collateral, as Mr. Berg maintains a secured
priority interest in substantially all Focus  assets. At December 31, 2005, we
owed Samsung $342,000, under net 30 terms.  

Stock Issuances     

On June 21, 2005, we completed the sale of 2,414,282
shares of our common stock in a private placement to 11 independent accredited
third party investors, receiving proceeds of approximately $1.6 million, net of
offering costs of approximately $126,000. The shares were issued at $0.70 per
share, an approximate 5% discount to the closing price of Focus  common stock
on June 20, 2005. Additionally, we issued warrants to the investors and
placement agents to purchase an aggregate of 795,713 shares of common stock at
an exercise price of $0.70 per share. The warrants were exercisable immediately
and expire four years from the date of grant.  

31  

On November 7, 2005, we
completed the sale of 5,018,247 shares of our common stock to a group of
independent accredited investors at a purchase price per share of $0.66
receiving proceeds of approximately $3.0 million, net of offering costs of
$332,000. The shares were issued at an approximate 16% discount to the closing
price of Focus  common stock on November 4, 2005. In addition, warrants were
issued to the investors and placement agents to purchase an aggregate of
1,756,384 million additional shares of our common stock at an exercise price of
$0.85 per share. The warrants were immediately exercisable and expire five
years from the date of grant.  

We have used, and will continue to use,
the proceeds from the above private placements to further develop our UWB
technology, which will enable wireless video transmission in a wide range of
applications. Any funds not expended for UWB development will be for general
corporate purposes.  

Recent Accounting
Pronouncements   

See note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies   Recent Accounting Pronouncements  to our consolidated financial
statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements.   

32  

Item 7A. Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Interest rate risk    

At December 31, 2005, we did not hold any
short-term investments that would be exposed to market risk from adverse
movements in interest rates.  

At December 31, 2005, our outstanding debt obligations consisted of a term loan of $2.5 million and borrowings under a line of credit of $3.0 million.  The average interest rate applicable to these debt obligations was 8.25% per annum. If short-term interest rates were to increase 100 basis points (100 basis points equals 1%), the increased interest expense associated with these debt obligations would be approximately $55,000 on an annual basis.      

    Foreign currency risk    

Gains or losses
related to foreign exchange currency transactions were not material for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. A 10% movement in the EUR/USD
exchange rate would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements.  

Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information   

Item
9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure   

None.  

Item
9A. Controls and Procedures   

Management of the Company, with the participation of
the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer (its
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively),
evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period
covered by this Report.  

Based on that evaluation, the President and Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of
the end of the period covered by this Report, our disclosure controls and
procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
us in the reports filed or submitted by us under the Securities Exchange Act  

33  

of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules
and forms, and include controls and procedures designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by us in such reports is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our President and Chief Executive
Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.  

There was no change in our internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2005 that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.  

We will be required to evaluate our internal controls
over financial reporting and prepare a management assessment on our internal
controls in order to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that the management assessment of
our internal controls be audited. We estimate the cost of meeting these
requirements will be approximately $750,000. We will be required to meet these
requirements by December 31, 2006 if our market capitalization, adjusted for
certain items, is greater than $75 million on June 30, 2006. Otherwise, we will
have to meet the requirements by December 31, 2007.  

Item 9B. Other
Information   

Not applicable.  

34  

PART III   

Item
10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance   

Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, requires our directors and executive officers, and persons who own
more than 10% of a registered class of our equity securities, to file initial
reports of ownership and reports of changes in ownership with the SEC. Such
persons are required by SEC regulations to furnish us with copies of all
Section 16(a) forms they file.  

Based solely on our review of the copies of such forms
received by us or written representations from certain reporting persons that
no other reports were required, we believe that all filing requirements
applicable to Focus  officers, directors, and greater than 10% beneficial
owners were complied with during the year ended December 31, 2005.  

Management   

Our executive officers and directors as of March 17, 2006 are as
follows:  

Name (1)   

Age   

Position   

N. William Jasper, Jr.
  (2)  

58  

Chairman of the Board  

William B. Coldrick (2)
  (3)  

63  

Vice Chairman of the
  Board  

Brett A. Moyer  

48  

Director, President and
  Chief Executive Officer  

Carl E. Berg (2) (3)  

68  

Director  

Michael F. Conway  

41  

Senior Vice President
  of Strategy and Business Development  

Michael L. D Addio  

61  

Director  

Tommy Eng  

48  

Director  

Sam Runco (3)  

57  

Director  

Thomas M. Hamilton  

56  

Executive Vice
  President and General Manager of the Focus Semiconductor Group  

Peter T. Mor  

56  

Senior Vice President
  of Engineering and Operations  

Norman Schlomka  

41  

Senior Vice president
  of European Operations  

Gary L. Williams  

39  

Secretary, Executive
  Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer  

(1)                  Each member of our
Board of Directors generally serves for a three-year term and until their
successors are elected and qualified. 

(2)                  Member of the Audit
Committee. 

(3)                  Member of the
Compensation Committee. 

35  

Directors    

N.
William Jasper, Jr.   has served as Chairman of the Board of
Directors since December 20, 2002. Mr. Jasper became a member of our Board of
Directors on March 6, 2001, in connection with the Videonics acquisition. Mr.
Jasper served as a member of the Videonics Board of Directors since August
1993. Mr. Jasper is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Dolby
Laboratories, Inc., (NYSE: DLB) a signal processing technology company located
in San Francisco, California. He has been President since 1983 and serves on
Dolby Laboratories  Board of Directors. Mr. Jasper holds a B.S. in Industrial Engineering
from Stanford University and an M.B.A. from the University of California,
Berkeley. Mr. Jasper s term expires in 2007. 

Brett A.
Moyer   joined us in May 1997. On September 30, 2002 he assumed
the role of President and Chief Executive Officer and became a member of our
Board of Directors. From May 1997 to September 29, 2002, Mr. Moyer served as
our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. From February 1986 to
April 1997, Mr. Moyer worked at Zenith Electronics Corporation, Glenview,
Illinois, where he was most recently the Vice President and General Manager of
Zenith s Commercial Products Division. Mr. Moyer has also served as Vice
President of Sales Planning and Operations at Zenith where he was responsible
for forecasting, customer service, distribution, MIS, and regional credit
operations. Mr. Moyer has a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Beloit College
in Wisconsin and a Masters of International Management with a concentration in
finance and accounting from The American Graduate School of International
Management (Thunderbird). Mr. Moyer s term expires in 2008. 

Carl E.
Berg  , a co-founder of Videonics, served on Videonics  Board
of Directors since June 1987. In connection with the Videonics acquisition, Mr.
Berg became one of our directors on March 6, 2001. Mr. Berg is currently Chief
Executive Officer and a director for Mission West Properties, (AMEX: MSW) a
real estate investment company located in Cupertino, California. Mr. Berg is
also a member of the Board of Directors of Valence Technology, Inc., (Nasdaq SC:
VLNC) a developer of advanced rechargeable battery technology and Monolithic
System Technology Inc., (Nasdaq NM: MOSY) a developer of memory technology for
semiconductors. Mr. Berg holds a B.A. degree from the University of New Mexico.
Mr. Berg s term expires in 2007. See also  Certain Relationships and Related
Parties.  

William
B. Coldrick   has served as our Director since January 1993 and
Executive Vice President from July 1994 to May 1995. Mr. Coldrick is currently
a principal of Enterprise Development Partners, a consulting firm serving
emerging growth companies that he founded in April 1998. From July 1996 to
April 1998, Mr. Coldrick was Group Vice President and General Manager of
Worldwide Field Operations for the Computer Systems Division of Unisys Corp.
From 1982 to 1992, Mr. Coldrick served with Apple Computer Inc. in several
senior executive positions including Senior Vice President of Apple USA from
1990 to 1992. Prior to joining Apple Computer Inc., Mr. Coldrick held several
sales and marketing management positions with Honeywell Inc. from 1968 to 1982.
Mr. Coldrick holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Marketing from Iona College
in New Rochelle, New York. Mr. Coldrick s term expires in 2006. 

Michael
L. D Addio   joined us on January 16, 2001, in connection with
the acquisition of Videonics Inc., and served as our President, Chief Executive
Officer and Director until September 30, 2002 when he voluntarily resigned as
President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. D Addio is currently President and
Chief Executive Officer of Coaxsys, Inc., a new network technology company
located in Los Gatos, California. Mr. D Addio was a co-founder of Videonics,
and had served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of
Directors since Videonics  inception in July 1986. In addition, Mr. D Addio
served as Videonics  President from July 1986 until November 1997. From May
1979 through November 1985 he served as President, Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman of the Board of Directors of Corvus Systems, a manufacturer of small
computers and networking systems. Mr. D Addio holds an A.B. degree in
Mathematics from Northeastern University. Mr. D Addio s term expires in 2006. 

Tommy Eng   has served as our
Director since January 2004. Mr. Eng is a founding partner in Exa Ventures, a
venture capital investment firm specializing in IT, semiconductor,
communication, multimedia technology/services/content, software, and incubation
of early stage technology companies. Mr. Eng s has more than 20 years of
management and entrepreneurial startup experience in software/hardware design,
system/IC design, IP business, design services business, and Electronic Design
Automation (EDA). Prior to Exa Ventures, Mr. Eng held various executive and
engineering positions at Tera Systems, Mentor Graphics, Silicon Compiler
Systems, and Bell Labs. Mr. Eng holds an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from
the University of California, Berkeley. Mr. Eng also serves on the Board of
Directors of Monolithic System Technology Inc., (NasdaqNM: MOSY) a developer of
memory technology for semiconductors. Mr. Eng s term expires in 2008. 

Sam Runco
  has served as our Director since August 2004. Mr. Runco is
the founder and chief executive officer of Runco International, a world leader
in high-end home theater, video display technology, located in Union City,
California. Mr. Runco has more than 30 years of experience in the home theater
industry and is a respected leader in the consumer video projection industry
and is credited by numerous publications with coining the term  Home Theater.  

36  

Mr.
Runco plays a leadership role in the industry as a member of numerous
organizations and associations. He is the recipient of CEDIA s (Consumer
Electronic Design and Installation Association) peer-selected Lifetime
Achievement Award as well as Dealerscope s Magazine Hall of Fame. He is also in
his fourth term on the Board of Directors of the Consumer Electronics
Association (CEA) and on the Board of the CEA Video Division. Mr. Runco s term
expires in 2008.  

Non-Director Executive Officers    

Michael
F. Conway   joined us in January 2001 in connection with the
acquisition of Videonics Inc., and in March 2005 assumed the role of Senior
Vice President of Strategy and Business Development. Mr. Conway had served as
Vice President of Marketing for Videonics since February 2000, and prior to
that was the Director of Technical Marketing where he focused on Internet
marketing and sales presence. Mr. Conway joined Videonics in May 1996 in
connection with the acquisition of the start-up KUB Systems Inc., where he
served in various management and engineering positions. From 1988 to 1993, Mr.
Conway was a Product Engineer for Abekas Video Systems and from 1985 to 1987
was an Operations Engineer with WLEX-TV, an NBC affiliate in Lexington,
Kentucky. Mr. Conway holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University
of Kentucky. 

Thomas M.
Hamilton   joined us in September 1996 and in July 2001 assumed
the role of Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Focus
Semiconductor Group. From September 1996 to July 2001, Mr. Hamilton served as
Vice President of Engineering and our Chief Technical Officer. From 1992 to
1995, Mr. Hamilton was President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder and in
1995-1996 Vice President of Software Development and in 1996 CEO of TView,
Inc., a company acquired by us. From 1985 to 1990, Mr. Hamilton was Vice
President of Engineering of TSSI. From 1973 to 1985, Mr. Hamilton held a
variety of engineering and marketing management positions at Tektronix, Inc.
Mr. Hamilton has a B.S. in Mathematics from Oregon State University  .   

Peter T. Mor   joined us in February 2005 as
our Senior Vice President of Engineering and Operations. Prior to joining
Focus, Mr. Mor served as Vice President of Engineering for Sony Corporation s
VAIO notebook and desktop personal computers and peripherals. At Sony
Corporation, Mr. Mor was responsible for six departments, and over 100
hardware, software, and network engineers or consultants. Prior to Sony
Corporation, Mr. Mor served as Vice President of Engineering and Operations for
AMAX Engineering, and has served in managerial roles at Qume Corporation, Xerox
Corporation, and Fujitsu Ltd. Mr. Mor also serves on the Board of Directors of
Syscan Imaging, Inc. (OTC: SYII.OB) a developer of mobile image scanning
devices. Mr. Mor holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cheng Kung
University, Taiwan, and an M.S. in Computer Science from the University of
Oregon. 

Norman
Schlomka   has served as  Managing
Director of COMO Computer and Motion GmbH ( COMO ) and Senior Vice president of
European Operations since February 2006. Mr. Schlomka joined us in February
2004 as Managing Director of COMO and Vice president of European Operations in
connection with the acquisition of COMO, a German based company developing and
manufacturing video editing and video archiving solutions. Mr. Schlomka  was
a founder of  COMO , and had served as
Managing Director since  COMO since its  inception
in 1990. Mr. Schlomka holds an Electrical Engineering degree from the  University of Braunschweig, Germany.  

Gary L.
Williams   has served as our  Secretary, Executive Vice President of Finance
and CFO since February 2005. Mr. Williams joined us as our Secretary, Vice
President of Finance and CFO in January 2001, in connection with the
acquisition of Videonics Inc. Mr. Williams had served Videonics as its Vice
President of Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary since February
1999. From February 1995 to January 1999, Mr. Williams served as Videonics 
Controller. From July 1994 to January 1995, he served as Controller for Western
Micro Technology, a publicly traded company in the electronics distribution
business. From January 1990 to June 1994, Mr. Williams worked in public
accounting for Coopers   Lybrand LLP. Mr. Williams is a Certified Public
Accountant and has a Bachelors Degree in Business Administration, with an
emphasis in Accounting from San Diego State University.  

Audit
Committee   

The
Audit Committee of the board is composed of three members and operates under a
written charter adopted by the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee
currently consists of Messrs. Berg, Coldrick, and Jasper. All three members are
 independent,  as defined by the     Nasdaq current
listing standards. The Board has determined that Mr. Jasper qualifies as an
audit committee financial expert as defined in Item 401(h)(1) of Regulation S-K
and therefore meets the Nasdaq listing requirements for having related
financial expertise.  

37  

Compensation
Committee   

The
Compensation Committee s responsibilities are to make determinations with
respect to salaries and bonuses payable to executive officers and to administer
stock option plans. The Compensation Committee is currently comprised of
Messrs. Berg, Coldrick and Runco.  

Code of
Ethics   

We have adopted a Code of
Conduct, which is applicable to all of our directors and employees, including
the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the
principal accounting officer. The Code of Conduct is posted on our website. We
intend to file amendments to or waivers from our Code of Conduct (to the extent
applicable to our chief executive officer, principal financial officer or
principal accounting officer) on a Form 8-K with the SEC.  

Independent Directors   

Nasdaq requires
that a majority of the Board of Directors be  independent  directors as defined
in Nasdaq Rule 4200. We reviewed the independence of the Board of Directors and
considered any transaction between each director or any member of his or her
family and us. As a result of this review, the Board of Directors has
determined that each of the members of the Board of Directors is independent
under the Nasdaq definition of  independence  for the Board except for Messrs.
D Addio and Moyer, who are not considered independent because of their current
or past employment as executive officers of Focus or due to their business
relationships with Focus.  

Item 11. Executive Compensation   

The following table summarizes the compensation we
paid or accrued for services rendered for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, to our Chief Executive Officer and each of the other most highly
compensated executive officers who earned more than $100,000 in salary and
bonus for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

38  

Summary Compensation
Table   

(1)                  Includes salary and
bonus payments earned by the named officers in the year indicated, for services
rendered in such year, which were paid in the following year. 

(2)                  Excludes
perquisites and other personal benefits, the aggregate annual amount of which
for each officer was less than the lesser of $50,000 or 10% of the total salary
and bonus reported. 

(3)                  Long-term
compensation table reflects the quantity of non-qualified options, incentive
stock options and restricted stock granted to the named persons in each of the
periods indicated. 

(4)                  Mr. Mor assumed the
role of Senior Vice-President of Engineering and Operations on February 2, 2005. 

(5)                  Includes
compensation of $10,007 based on sales commissions. 

(6)                  The
value stated represents the number of shares of restricted stock granted of
50,000 and 35,000 for Messrs Moyer and Williams, respectively, multiplied by
the closing price of Focus common stock on the date of grant of $1.15 per
share. These grants of restricted stock vest 25% on each of the annual
anniversaries from the grant date of February 24, 2005. The grant recipients
are entitled to any dividends paid during the vesting period. At December 31,
2005, the value of the restricted stock awards to Messrs. Moyer and Williams
was $31,000 and $22,000, respectively. 

(7)                  Company
discretionary 401(k) contribution. 

(8)                   Remaining
relocation expenses paid by the Company for Mr. Moyer s move ($9,608) and
Company 401(k) contribution ($400). 

39  

Option/SAR Grants in 2005   

The following tables sets forth certain information
with respect to options to purchase shares of our common stock as of and for
the year ended December 31, 2005 granted to the executive officers identified
in our summary compensation table.  

(1)             Focus
granted options to purchase a total of 819,753 shares of common stock to
employees and directors in 2005. 

Aggregated Option/SAR Exercises in
2005 and Fiscal Year-End Option/SAR Values   

The following table sets forth information concerning
options exercised during fiscal year 2005 and the value of unexercised options
as of December 31, 2005 held by the executives named in the Summary Compensation
Table above.  

(1)                  Value
is based on the difference between option exercise price and the closing price
as quoted on The Nasdaq Capital Market at the close of trading on December 31,
2005 ($0.62) multiplied by the number of shares underlying the option. 

40  

Employment
Agreements   

Brett Moyer is party to an
employment contract with us effective September 30, 2002. Pursuant to this
employment contract, Mr. Moyer serves as our Chief Executive Officer and
President at a current annual salary of $326,025. In connection with the
employment agreement, Mr. Moyer was granted an aggregate total of 500,000
options to purchase shares of common stock at prices of $0.75 and $1.15 per
share in August 2002 and March 2003, respectively, the then fair market values.
The options vested over a three-year period at 2.77% per month.  This
employment contract requires payment of 12 months of salary and the
acceleration of vesting of all options held by Mr. Moyer so as to be
immediately exercisable if Mr. Moyer is terminated without cause as defined in
the employment agreement. The employment
contract provides for incentive bonuses as determined by our Board of Directors,
and employee benefits, including health and disability insurance, in accordance
with our policies. Additionally, certain of Mr. Moyer s options would
accelerate vesting so as to be immediately exercisable in the event of a
change in control as defined in the respective option plan/grant. Mr. Moyer s contract automatically renews for
one-year terms unless terminated by either party 30 days prior to the end of
the term.  

Michael Conway is party to an employment contract with
us effective February 24, 2005. Pursuant to this employment contract, Mr.
Conway serves as our Senior Vice President of Strategy and Business Development
at a current annual salary of $171,520. Mr.
Conway s contract automatically
renews for one-year terms unless terminated by either party 30 days prior to
the end of the term. This employment contract requires payment of six
months of salary and the acceleration of vesting of all options held by Mr.
Conway so as to be immediately exercisable if Mr. Conway is terminated either
without cause or in the event of a change in control as defined in the
employment agreement during the term of the contract. The employment contract
provides for bonuses, as determined by our Board of Directors, and employee
benefits, including health and disability insurance, in accordance with Focus 
policies.  

Thomas
Hamilton is party to an employment contract with us effective October 17, 1996,
as amended to date, which renews automatically for one-year terms, unless
terminated by either party 30 days prior to the end of the term. Pursuant to
this employment contract, Mr. Hamilton serves as the General Manager and
Executive Vice President of our Semiconductor Group, at a current salary of
$185,000. This employment contract requires payment of 12 months of salary and the
acceleration of vesting of all options held by Mr. Hamilton so as to be
immediately exercisable if Mr. Hamilton is terminated without cause during the
term of the contract. Additionally, certain of Mr. Hamilton s options would
accelerate vesting so as to be immediately exercisable in the event of a change
in control as defined in the respective option plan/grant. The employment
contract provides for bonuses, as determined by our Board of Directors, and
employee benefits, including health and disability insurance, in accordance
with Focus  policies.  

Peter Mor is party to an employment contract with us
effective February 24, 2005. Pursuant to this employment contract, Mr. Mor
serves as our Senior Vice President of Engineering and Operations at a current
annual salary of $210,000. Mr. Mor s
contract automatically renews for one-year
terms unless terminated by either party 30 days prior to the end of the term.
This employment contract requires payment of six months of salary and the
acceleration of vesting of all options held by Mr. Mor so as to be immediately
exercisable if Mr. Mor is terminated either without cause or in the event of a
change in control as defined in the employment agreement during the term of the
contract. The employment contract provides for bonuses, as determined by our
Board of Directors, and employee benefits, including health and disability
insurance, in accordance with Focus  policies.  

Norman Schlomka is party to an employment contract
with us effective January 1, 2006. Pursuant to this employment contract, Mr.
Schlomka serves as Managing Director of COMO and Senior Vice president of
European Operations at a current annual salary of $104,550. Mr. Schlomka s contract is for two years and automatically renews for one-year terms
unless terminated by either party 90 days prior to the end of the term.
This employment contract requires payment of three months of salary if Mr.
Schlomka is terminated without cause. Additionally, if COMO invokes a
non-compete clause included within Mr. Schlomka s employment contract, Mr.
Schlomka would be, for a period of one year, prohibited from competing with
COMO and COMO would be required to pay Mr. Schlomka compensation equal to 50%
of Mr. Schlomka s average annual income over the previous 12 months. The employment
contract provides for bonuses, as determined by our Board of Directors, and
employee benefits, including use of a company car and health and disability
insurance.  

Gary Williams is party to an employment contract with
us effective May 28, 2004. Pursuant to this employment contract, Mr. Williams
serves as our Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer
at a current annual salary of $215,250. Mr.
Williams  contract automatically renews for one-year terms unless terminated by
either  

41  

party 90 days prior to the end
of the term.  This employment contract requires payment of 12 months of
salary and the acceleration of vesting of all options held by Mr. Williams so
as to be immediately exercisable if Mr. Williams is terminated either without
cause or in the event of a change in control as defined in the employment
agreement during the term of the contract. The employment contract provides for
bonuses, as determined by our Board of Directors, and employee benefits,
including health and disability insurance, in accordance with Focus  policies.  

Compensation of
Directors   

Our non-employee directors are reimbursed for out of
pocket expenses incurred in attending board meetings. No director who is an
employee receives separate compensation for services rendered as a director.
Non-employee directors are eligible to participate in our stock option plans. During
the year ended December 31, 2005, we granted 30,000 shares of restricted stock
to Messrs. Berg, Coldrick and Jasper, who each served as members of our Audit
Committee, and 20,000 shares of restricted stock to Messrs. Eng, Runco and D Addio.
These grants of restricted stock vest in equal annual installments over a four-year
period.  

Incentive Plans   

We maintain various stock option
plans for the benefit of our officers, directors and employees. A total of    1,494,506 o  ptions and restricted stock were available for
issuance under the plans as of December 31, 2005. For additional discussion of
the plans and awards there under see note 10  Stockholders Equity   Common
Stock  to our consolidated financial statements.  

In November 2005, the expiration
date on certain employee stock options that were scheduled to expire in
December 2005 was extended to March 15, 2006. Additionally, certain options
that were scheduled to expire between January 1, 2006 and June 30, 2006 were
extended to December 31, 2006. This extension resulted in a charge of $104,000
being recorded to general and administrative expenses. A total of 1,481,512
options were extended, of which 1,088,500 were held by officers and directors
of the Company.   

Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation   

The members of our Compensation Committee
are Messrs. Coldrick, Berg and Runco. None of our members of our Compensation
Committee presently serves or has previously served as an officer of us or our
subsidiary. For information concerning transactions with Mr. Berg, see  Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions .   

Item
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Shareholder Matters   

The
following table sets forth information, as of March 17, 2006, regarding the
shares of our common stock beneficially owned by those stockholders of Focus
known to management to beneficially own more than five percent (5%) of our
common stock, each of our directors, nominees and executive officers, as well
as all directors and executive officers as a group. Except as noted, we believe
each person has sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares
shown subject to applicable community property laws.  

Beneficial
ownership  is a technical term broadly defined by the SEC to mean more than
ownership in the usual sense. For example, you beneficially own our common
stock not only if you hold it directly, but also indirectly, if you, through a
relationship, contract or understanding, have, or share, the power to vote the
stock, to sell the stock or have the right to acquire the stock. The percentage
of beneficial ownership presented in the table below is based on the sum of:  

                        68,412,452
shares of our common stock currently issued and outstanding as of March 17, 2006; 

                        2,744 shares of
Series B Preferred Stock and 417 shares of Series C Preferred Stock, in aggregate
converted into 3,161,000 shares of our common stock; and 

                        2,661,554 shares
of common stock issuable pursuant to options that are immediately exercisable
within 60 days of March 17, 2006. 

42  

*      Less than
1% of the outstanding common stock.  

(1)                   Unless
otherwise indicated, each person possesses sole voting and investment power
with respect to the shares. 

(2)                   Includes
222,600 shares of common stock held directly by Mr. Moyer. Includes 616,838
shares issuable pursuant to outstanding stock options that are exercisable at March
17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter and 91,229 shares of restricted stock,
which are not yet vested but are authorized to vote. 

(3)                   Includes
2,180,1693 shares of common stock held directly by Mr. Berg and 3,161 shares of
preferred stock held directly by Mr. Berg, which are convertible into 3,161,000
shares of our common stock. Includes 166,658 shares issuable pursuant to
outstanding stock options and 100,000 shares that are issuable pursuant to
warrants that are exercisable at March 17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter
and 52,500 shares of restricted stock, which are not yet vested but are
authorized to vote. Mr. Berg owns all of our outstanding preferred stock. Mr.
Berg s address is 10050 Bandley Dr., Cupertino, California 95014. 

(4)                   Includes
104,869 shares of common stock held directly or indirectly by Mr. Coldrick.
Includes 167,084 shares issuable pursuant to outstanding stock options that are
exercisable at March 17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter and 52,500 shares
of restricted stock, which are not yet vested but are authorized to vote. 

(5)                   Includes
424,932 shares of common stock held directly or indirectly by Mr. D Addio.
Includes 560,695 shares issuable pursuant to outstanding stock options that are
exercisable at March 17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter and 35,000 shares
of restricted stock, which are not yet vested but are authorized to vote. 

(6)                   Includes
5,000 shares of common stock held directly or indirectly by Mr. Eng. Includes
69,445 shares issuable pursuant to outstanding stock options that are exercisable
at March 17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter and 35,000 shares of restricted
stock, which are not yet vested but are authorized to vote. 

(7)                   Includes
36,500 shares of common stock held directly or indirectly by Mr. Jasper.
Includes 186,668 shares issuable pursuant to outstanding stock options that are
exercisable at March 17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter and 52,500 shares
of restricted stock, which are not yet vested but are authorized to vote. 

(8)                   Includes
5,000 shares of common stock held directly or indirectly by Mr. Runco. Includes
58,334 shares issuable pursuant to outstanding stock options that are
exercisable at March 17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter and 35,000 shares
of restricted stock, which are not yet vested but are authorized to vote. 

(9)                   Includes
83,579 shares issuable pursuant to outstanding stock options that are
exercisable at March 17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter and 26,865 shares
of restricted stock, which are not yet vested but are authorized to vote. 

43  

(10)             Includes
131,000 shares of common stock held directly by Mr. Hamilton. Includes 289,843
shares issuable pursuant to outstanding stock options that are exercisable at March
17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter and 37,611 shares of restricted stock,
which are not yet vested but are authorized to vote.. 

(11)             Includes
72,917 shares issuable pursuant to outstanding stock options that are
exercisable at March 17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter. 

(12)             Includes
8,750 shares of common stock held directly by Mr. Williams. Includes 289,493
shares issuable pursuant to outstanding stock options that are exercisable at March
17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter and 63,861 shares of restricted stock,
which are not yet vested but are authorized to vote. 

(13)             Based
on a Schedule 13G filed on February 14, 2006 by 033 Asset Management, LLC, located
at 125 High Street, Suite 1405, Boston, Massachusetts  02110. 033 Asset Management is the investment
manager for (I) 033 Growth Partners I, L.P., (ii) 033 Growth Partners II, L.P.,
and (iii) 033 Growth International Fund, Ltd. (together, the  Funds ). No Fund
individually owns more than 5% of our common stock. 

(14) Based on a Schedule 13G filed on July 15, 2005 by
Paul Roiff, located at 301 Columbus Ave. 2 nd  Floor, Boston,
Massachusetts 02110.  

(15)             Includes
2,661,554 shares issuable pursuant to options and warrants to purchase common
stock exercisable at March 17, 2006, or within 60 days thereafter and 482,066
shares of restricted stock. 

Set forth below is information concerning our existing compensation
plans:  

At December 31, 2005  

Plan Category   

(a) 
  Number of securities to be 
  issued upon exercise of 
  outstanding options, 
  warrants and rights   

(b) 
  Weighted - average 
  exercise price of 
  outstanding options, 
  warrants and rights   

(c) 
  Number of securities 
  remaining available for 
  future issuance under 
  equity compensation plans 
  (excluding securities 
  reflected in column (a))   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders (1)  

7,253,787  

$  

1.10  

1,494,506  

(1)             Focus does not maintain
any equity compensation plans that were not submitted to, and approved by, its
stockholders. 

Item
13.         Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions   

All material affiliate transactions and loans
between Focus and its officers, directors, principal stockholders or other
affiliates are made or entered into on terms that are no less favorable to such
individuals than would be obtained from, or given to, unaffiliated third
parties and are approved by a majority of the Board of Directors who do not
have an interest in the transactions and who have access, at Focus  expense, to
Focus  or independent legal counsel.   

Carl Berg     

In December 2002, Mr. Carl Berg, a director of the
Company, provided Samsung Semiconductor Inc., the Company s contracted ASIC
manufacturer, with a personal guarantee to secure the Company s working capital
requirements for ASIC purchase order fulfillment. Mr. Berg agreed to provide
the personal guarantee on the Company s behalf without additional cost or
collateral, as Mr. Berg maintains a secured priority interest in substantially
all the Company s assets. At December 31, 2005, the Company owed Samsung $342,000,
under net 30 terms.  

In November 2004, we
secured a line of credit of up to $4.0 million under which we can borrow up to
90% of our eligible outstanding accounts receivable. This line of credit is
collateralized by a personal guarantee from Mr. Berg. In connection with this
line of credit, the bank obtained a priority security interest in our accounts
receivable. Mr. Berg will maintain his security interest in all our assets,
subject to the bank s lien on accounts receivable.  

On June 28, 2005, we signed
a term loan agreement with Greater Bay  Bank under which we can borrow up to $2.5
million. Mr. Berg has personally guaranteed the term loan. In connection with
Mr. Berg s extension of his personal guarantee, we agreed to continue Mr. Berg s
priority interest in our assets, except for our accounts receivable, which Mr.
Berg has subordinated to the bank, and to issue to Mr. Berg a warrant to
purchase 100,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.81 per share and which expires on June 28,
2009. The warrant was valued at $42,000 using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model. 

Michael D Addio   

Messrs. Mark D Addio and
Michael D Addio Jr., both sons of director Michael D Addio, are employed by
Focus as Vice President of World Wide Sales and Director of Test and
Documentation, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Mark D Addio s
total compensation including commission and bonus was $147,229 and Michael D Addio
Jr. s total compensation was $135,200. Neither are executive officers of the
Company.  

N. William Jasper Jr.   

N. William Jasper Jr.,
who is the Chairman of Focus  Board of Directors, is also the President and
Chief Executive Officer of Dolby Laboratories, Inc. ( Dolby ), a signal
processing technology company located in San Francisco,  

44  

California. Focus is
required to submit quarterly royalty payments to Dolby based on Dolby
technology incorporated into certain products assumed in the acquisition of
Visual Circuits in May 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Focus has
paid Dolby total royalties of $21,000.  

General   

All material affiliate transactions and loans between
us and our officers, directors, principal stockholders or other affiliates are
made or entered into on terms that are no less favorable to such individuals
than would be obtained from, or given to, unaffiliated third parties and are
approved by a majority of the Board of Directors who do not have an interest in
the transactions and who have access, at our expense to our or independent
legal counsel.  

Item 14. Principal Accountant
Fees and Services   

Deloitte   Touche LLP
( Deloitte ) served as our independent registered public accounting firm
between May 3, 2001 and May 31, 2005. On May 31, 2005, we were notified by
Deloitte that Deloitte had resigned as our independent registered public
accounting firm effective as of that date. The reports of Deloitte on our
financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003
expressed an unqualified opinion and included an explanatory paragraph
regarding the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going
concern. We appointed Burr, Pilger   Mayer LLP ( BPM ) as our independent
registered public accounting firm on June 24, 2005.  

The
following table sets forth the aggregate audit fees and non-audit related fees
that Focus incurred for services provided by Deloitte and BPM during the years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The table lists audit fees, audit-related
fees and all other fees. All services rendered by Deloitte and BPM during the
years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were furnished at customary rates and
terms.  

(1)                                     Represents
fees for professional services provided in connection with the audit of our
annual financial statements and review of our quarterly financial statements,
advice on accounting matters that arose during the audit and audit services
provided in connection with other statutory or regulatory filings. 

(2)                                     Represents
fees for assurance services related to the review of proposed financing
agreements and consultations regarding accounting for business combinations. 

(3)                                     Represents
fees for consultation on inter-company pricing. 

The Audit Committee has considered the role of
Deloitte and BPM in providing additional services and other non-audit services
to Focus and has concluded that such services are compatible with Deloitte s
and BPM s independence as Focus  independent registered public accounting firm.
During 2005 and 2004, the Audit Committee approved in advance all audit and
non-audit services provided by Deloitte and BPM. All services rendered by our
auditors are required to be pre-approved by our Audit Committee Chairman and
ratified by the Audit Committee.  

45  

PART
IV   

Item
15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a)(1)-(2)   Financial Statements and Schedules:    

(i) The
  list of consolidated financial statements and schedules set forth in the
  accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial
  Information in item 8 herein is incorporated herein by reference. Such
  consolidated financial statements and schedules are filed as part of this
  report.  

(ii) All
  other financial statement schedules are omitted because the required
  information is not applicable, or because the information required is
  included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.  

(3)   Management Contracts or Compensatory Plans:    

Exhibits 10.9,
10.16, 10.18, 10.19, 10.27, 10.35, 10.45, 10.46, 10.47, 10.48, 10.49, 10.50,
10.52, 10.53, 10.54 and 10.55 or listed in (b) below identify management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as
exhibits to this report, and such listing is incorporated herein by reference.  

(b)        Exhibits     

The following exhibits,
required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K, are filed as a part of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K or are incorporated by reference to previous filings as
indicated by the footnote immediately following the exhibit. Exhibit numbers,
where applicable, in the left column correspond to those of Item 601 of
Regulation S-K.  

46  

47  

48  

* Included.  

49  

(c)          Financial Schedules     

Not applicable.  

50  

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of  

  Focus Enhancements, Inc.  

  Campbell, CA.  

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet of Focus Enhancements, Inc. and its subsidiary (the  Company ) as
of December 31, 2005 and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders  equity and comprehensive loss, and cash flows for the year then
ended. The consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audit.  

We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Focus Enhancements, Inc. and its subsidiary as of
December 31, 2005 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
the year then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America.  

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared
assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern.  As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements, the Company s recurring losses from operations, net
capital deficiency and accumulated deficit raise substantial doubt about its
ability to continue as a going concern. Management s plans as to these matters
are also described in Note 2.  The
consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.  

/s/
  Burr, Pilger   Mayer LLP  

Palo
Alto, California  

  February 20, 2006  

F-1  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of  

  Focus Enhancements, Inc.  

  Campbell, CA  

We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Focus Enhancements, Inc. and its subsidiary
(the  Company ) as of December 31, 2004, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders  equity and comprehensive loss, and cash
flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2004.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  

We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged
to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our
audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a
basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances
but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no
such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, such
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Focus Enhancements, Inc. and its subsidiary at December
31, 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the two years in the period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  

The accompanying financial
statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a
going concern.  As discussed in Note 2 to
the financial statements, the Company s recurring losses from operations and
accumulated deficit raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a
going concern. Management s plans concerning these matters are also described
in Note 2. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might
result from the outcome of this uncertainty.  

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP  

San Jose, California  

  March 15, 2005  

F-2  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

     Consolidated Statements of Operations   

  (In thousands, except per share amounts)  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.  

F-3  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

     Consolidated Balance Sheets   

  (In thousands, except
share and per share amounts)  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.  

F-4  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Loss   

  (In thousands)  

(Continued)  

F-5  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Loss
(Continued)   

  (In thousands)  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.   

F-6  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   

  (In thousands)  

(Continued)  

F-7  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Continued)   

  (In thousands)  

Years ended December 31,   

2005   

2004   

2003   

Supplemental Cash Flow Information   

Conversion of notes payable and accrued
  interest to related party into common and preferred stock  

$  

$  

4,454  

$  

Interest paid  

$  

301  

$  

130  

$  

4  

Taxes paid  

$  

2  

$  

5  

$  

2  

Acquisition of DVUnlimited for common stock  

$  

$  

$  

50  

Acquisition of COMO Computer and Motion
  GmbH for common stock  

$  

$  

353  

$  

Acquisition of Visual Circuits Corporation
  for common stock  

$  

$  

8,488  

$  

Acquisition of property and equipment
  through capital leases  

$  

192  

$  

$  

Issuance of common stock in connection with
  earn out agreement with COMO  

$  

38  

$  

$  

Warrants issued in connection with line of
  credit  

$  

24  

$  

$  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.  

F-8  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

     Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

1.              Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies    

Business of
the Company.   Focus Enhancements, Inc. (the  Company 
or  Focus ) was incorporated in 1992 and develops and markets proprietary video
technology in two areas: semiconductor and systems. Focus markets its products
globally to original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ), and dealers and
distributors in the consumer and professional channels. Semiconductor products
include several series of Application Specific Integrated Circuits ( ASICs ),
which process digital and analog video to be used with televisions, computer
motherboards, graphics cards, video conferencing systems, Internet TV, media
center and interactive TV applications. In 2002, Focus  Semiconductor group
began the development of an Ultra Wideband ( UWB ) chip design for use in
transmitting wireless video. Based on current indications Focus believes
initial customer orders for production quality UWB chips will be placed in the
second half of 2006. Focus  system products are designed to provide solutions in
PC-to-TV scan conversion, video presentation, digital-video ( DV ) conversion,
video production and home theater markets. Focus markets these system products
through both consumer and professional channels. Focus  consumer and production
system products include video scan converters, video mixers, DV and HD digital
video disk recorders, MPEG recorders, and file format conversion tools. Focus 
digital asset management system products include network-based video servers
with video capture and play-out components. Focus  digital signage and retail
media solutions products include both standard and high definition MPEG
players, servers and associated control software. 

Basis of
Presentation  . The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of Focus and its wholly-owned subsidiary. All intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. 

Business
Combinations  . The acquisitions of Videonics, Inc., ( Videonics )
COMO Computer and Motion GmbH ( COMO ) and Visual Circuits Corporation ( Visual
Circuits ) were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, and the
consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of these
companies from the date of acquisition. The net assets of these companies were
recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition with the excess of the
purchase price over such fair values allocated to goodwill. 

Use of
Estimates  . The process of preparing financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires the use of estimates and assumptions
regarding certain types of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Actual
results may differ from estimated amounts. Significant estimates used in
preparing these financial statements are related primarily to accounts
receivable allowances, warranty accruals, inventory valuation allowances,
recoverability of capitalized software development costs, deferred tax asset
valuation allowances, the value of equity instruments issued for services and
the recoverability of goodwill and other intangibles related to acquisitions.
It is at least reasonably possible that the estimates will change within the
next year. 

Financial
Instruments  . The carrying amounts reflected in the
consolidated balance sheets for cash, accounts receivable and accounts payable
approximate the respective fair values due to the short-term maturity of these
instruments. Debt and capital lease obligations approximate fair value as these
instruments bear interest at terms that would be available through similar
transactions with other third parties. 

Cash and
Cash Equivalents  . Focus considers all highly liquid
investments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be
cash equivalents. 

Revenue and
Cost Recognition  . Revenue consists primarily of sales
of products to OEMs, dealers and distributors. Focus recognizes revenues, net
of discounts, when all the following conditions have been met: shipment of
product (as title transfers upon shipment); a purchase order has been received;
the sales price is fixed and determinable; collection of the resulting
receivable is probable; and all significant obligations have been met. At the
time a sale is recorded, provisions are made to estimate customer returns, reflected
as a reduction of revenues and trade receivables, and warranty
repair/replacement costs, reflected as an increase to cost of revenues.
Although Focus may choose to take back product at its discretion, only a
limited number of consumer channel distributors have return rights. In
connection with these agreements, distributors may return or exchange slow
moving inventory held by that distributor. However, these return rights are
limited to 25% of the customer s prior quarter purchases. 

F-9  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

Focus sells software that is
embedded into some of its products. The revenue from the embedded software is
recognized upon shipment to the customer as the embedded software is deemed to
be incidental to the product, as per the guidance in Statement of Position
97-2,   Software Revenue Recognition  .
Generally, revenue from post-delivery customer support, which consists
primarily of telephone support, is recognized upon shipment of the software as
the support is included in the selling price of the software, is not offered
separately, and the cost of the support is insignificant. For those products
for which post-delivery customer support is significant, and the embedded
software is more than incidental, revenue from the post-delivery customer
support is recognized over the service period of generally one year, with the
fair value of the customer support element determined based on renewal rates.  

Focus defers revenue
recognition of sales to certain distributors until the distributor sells
through such products to the end customer, or if sell through information is
not available from the distributor, when cash is received from the
distributors. Receipt of cash from those distributors that do not provide sell
through information has historically been indicative of sell through to an end
user by that distributor. Management is not aware of any circumstances that
would require the return of cash to a distributor, once payment from a
distributor has been received. Focus  inventory at such distributors at
December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $12,000 and $15,000, respectively.  

Contract revenues are
recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, measured by the percentage
of costs incurred to date to estimated total costs for the contract. This
method is used because management considers expended labor hours to be the best
available measure of progress on the contract. Contract costs include all
direct material and labor costs and those indirect costs related to contract
performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools, repairs, and depreciation
costs. Contract revenues were $336,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Contract costs for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $287,000 and were
recorded in cost of revenue in the consolidated statements of operations. Focus
did not record contract revenues nor did it incur costs associated with
contract revenues in 2004 or 2003.  

Price
Protection and Rebates  . The Company has agreements
with certain of its customers which, in the event of a price decrease, allow
those customers (subject to certain limitations) credit equal to the difference
between the price originally paid and the new decreased price on units either in
the customers  inventories on the date of the price decrease, or on the number
of units shipped to the customer for a specified time period prior to the price
decrease. When a price decrease is anticipated, Focus establishes reserves
against gross trade receivables for estimated amounts to be reimbursed to
qualifying customers. In addition, Focus records reserves at the time of
shipment for rebates. 

Allowance for
Doubtful Accounts.   Focus maintains an allowance for
doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its
customers to make required payments. Focus provides an allowance for specific
customer accounts where collection is doubtful and also provides an allowance
for other accounts based on historical collection and write-off experience. If
the financial condition of customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an
impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be
required. 

Concentration
of Credit Risk  . 
Financial instruments that potentially subject Focus to significant
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents
and trade accounts receivable. 

Focus 
customer base is dispersed across many different geographic areas throughout
the world and consists principally of OEM s, distributors and dealers in the
electronics industry. Focus performs ongoing credit evaluations of its
customers and maintains an allowance for potential credit losses. Management
assesses collectibility based on a number of factors, including credit-worthiness
and past transaction history with the customer. Although collateral is
generally not requested, in certain situations Focus will require confirmed
letters of credit or cash in advance of shipping to its customers.  

As
of December 31, 2005, two distributors each represented approximately 12% of
Focus  accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2004, one distributor
represented approximately 11% of Focus  accounts receivable. Focus provides
credit to customers in the normal course of business with terms generally
ranging between 30 to 60 days. Focus does not  

F-10  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

usually
require collateral for trade receivables, but attempts to limit credit risk
through its customer credit evaluation process.  

Focus
maintains its bank accounts with high quality financial institutions to
minimize credit risk, however, Focus  balances may periodically exceed federal
deposit insurance limits.  

Inventories   . Inventories
are stated at the lower of standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a
first-in, first-out basis) or net realizable value. Focus periodically reviews
its inventories for potential slow moving or obsolete items and records
write-downs for specific items, as appropriate.  

Property
and Equipment  . Property and equipment are recorded at
cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets as set forth below. Focus evaluates property and
equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. When the sum of
the undiscounted future net cash flows expected to result from the use of the
asset and its eventual disposition is less than its carrying amount, an
impairment loss would be measured based on the discounted cash flows compared
to the carrying amount. No impairment charge for property and equipment has
been recorded in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003. Repair and
maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. 

Category   

Depreciation Period   

Equipment  

3-5 years  

Tooling  

2 years  

Furniture and fixtures  

5 years  

Purchased software  

1-3 years  

Leasehold improvements  

Lesser of
  estimated life of the asset or the term of the lease  

Capitalized
Software  . Certain software development costs are
capitalized when incurred under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
(SFAS) No. 86,    Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be
Sold, Leased   , or   Otherwise
Marketed  . Capitalization of software development costs begins upon
the establishment of technological feasibility. The establishment of
technological feasibility and the ongoing assessment of recoverability of
capitalized software development costs require considerable judgment with
respect to certain external factors, including, but not limited to,
technological feasibility, anticipated future gross revenues, estimated
economic life, and changes in software and hardware technologies. Capitalized
software development costs are amortized based on the greater of (1) the ratio
of the current gross revenues for a product to the total current and
anticipated future gross revenues for the product, or (2) the straight-line
basis over the estimated useful life of the asset commencing on the date the
product is released. No software development costs were capitalized in 2005,
2004 or 2003. Amortization of capitalized software development costs totaled
$40,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003 and was included within cost of
revenue. No amortization of capitalized software development costs was recorded
in the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. 

Focus continuously assesses the
recoverability of its capitalized software development costs, considering
anticipated future gross revenues, estimated economic life, and changes in
software and hardware technologies.  

Goodwill
and Intangible Asset  s. 
Focus reviews identifiable intangibles to be held and used for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Management evaluates
possible impairment of long-lived assets using estimates of undiscounted future
cash flows. Impairment loss to be recognized is measured as the amount by which
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset.
Management evaluates the fair value of identifiable intangibles using primarily
the estimated discounted future cash flows method. Effective January 1, 2002,
Focus adopted SFAS No. 144,   Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  . SFAS No. 144 removes
goodwill from its scope and retains the requirements of SFAS No. 121 to (a)
recognize an impairment loss only if the carrying amount of the long-lived
asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows and (b) measure an
impairment loss as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair
value of the asset. There was no effect from the adoption of SFAS No. 144. 

F-11  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

Effective January 1,
2002, Focus adopted SFAS No. 142,   Goodwill and Other
Intangibles  . Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill is no longer subject to
amortization. Rather, SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and intangible assets
deemed to have an indefinite useful life be reviewed for impairment upon
adoption of SFAS No. 142 and at least annually thereafter. Focus    completed    its
annual impairment review during the fourth quarter of 2005. Management has
determined that goodwill was not impaired at the annual review date. Under SFAS
No. 142, goodwill impairment may exist if the net book value of a reporting
unit exceeds its estimated fair value.  

Intangible assets other than
goodwill are amortized using the straight-line basis over their estimated
useful lives ranging from three to four years.  

Advertising
and Sales Promotion Costs  . Advertising and sales
promotion costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising costs consist primarily
of magazine advertisements, agency fees and other direct production costs.
Advertising and sales promotion costs totaled approximately $483,000, $390,000
and $411,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. 

Legal Fees  .
Legal fees are charged to expense in the period the legal services are
performed. 

Research
and Development  . Research and development costs are
expensed as incurred. 

Product
Warranty Costs  . Focus  warranty period for its
products is generally one to three years. Focus accrues for warranty costs
based on estimated warranty return rates and costs to repair. 

Income
Taxes  . Focus accounts for income taxes under the
liability method. Under the liability method, deferred tax assets and
liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and
tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax
rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to
reverse. Focus is required to adjust its deferred tax assets and liabilities in
the period when tax rates or the provisions of the income tax laws change.
Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax
assets to amounts that more likely than not are expected to be realized. 

Deferred
Compensation  . Deferred compensation represents the
unamortized intrinsic value of restricted stock granted in 2005. 

Stock
Compensation Plans  . SFAS No. 123,   Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation,   encourages all entities to adopt a
fair value based method of accounting for employee stock compensation plans,
whereby compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value
of the award and is recognized over the service period, which is usually the
vesting period. However, it also allows an entity to continue to measure
compensation cost for those plans using the intrinsic value based method of
accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,   Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees  , whereby
compensation cost is the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the
stock at the grant date over the amount an employee must pay to acquire the
stock. Stock options issued under Focus  stock option plans have no intrinsic
value at grant date. Accordingly, under APB Opinion No. 25, no compensation
cost is recognized. 

Focus has
elected to continue with the accounting prescribed in APB Opinion No. 25 and,
as a result, must make pro forma disclosures of net loss and loss per share and
other disclosures as if the fair value based method of accounting had been
applied. The estimated fair value of the options is amortized to expense over
the vesting period of the option. The following table presents the effect on
reported net loss and net loss per share of accounting for employee stock
options under the fair value method:  

F-12  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

Common stock
equivalents have been excluded from all calculations of net loss per share and
pro forma net loss per share in 2005, 2004 and 2003 because the effect of
including them would be anti-dilutive.  

The fair value
of each grant is estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

Earnings
Per Share  . Focus calculates earnings per share in
accordance with SFAS No. 128,   Earnings Per Share  .
Basic earnings per share represents income (loss) available to common stockholders
divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the
period. Diluted earnings per share reflects additional common shares that would
have been outstanding if dilutive potential common shares had been issued, as
well as any adjustment to income that would result from the assumed conversion.
Potential common shares that may be issued by Focus relate to preferred stock,
outstanding stock options and warrants. The number of common shares that would
be issued under outstanding options and warrants is determined using the
treasury stock method. Diluted net loss per share was the same as basic net
loss per share for all periods presented since the effect of any potentially
dilutive securities is excluded, as they are anti-dilutive due to net losses
being reported in the periods presented. 

Comprehensive
Loss  . Focus  comprehensive loss includes net loss and
foreign currency translation adjustments, which are reflected as a component of
stockholders  equity. The foreign currency translation adjustments result from
the translation of COMO s financial statements, which are denominated in Euros.
Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in
net loss and are not material for any period presented. 

Recent
Accounting Pronouncements.   Focus accounts for stock-based
compensation awards issued to employees using the intrinsic value measurement
provisions of APB No. 25. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recorded
for stock options granted with exercise prices greater than or equal to the
fair value of the underlying common stock at the option grant date. On December
16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123 

F-13  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

(revised 2004),   Share-Based Payment  
(SFAS 123R). SFAS 123R eliminates the alternative of applying the intrinsic
value measurement provisions of APB No. 25 to stock compensation awards issued
to employees. Rather, the new standard requires enterprises to measure the cost
of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments
based on the grant-date fair value of the award. That cost will be recognized
over the period during which an employee is required to provide services in
exchange for the award, known as the requisite service period (usually the
vesting period).  

Focus has not yet quantified
the effects of the adoption of SFAS 123R, but it is expected that the new
standard may result in significant stock-based compensation expense. The pro
forma effects on net loss and net loss per share if Focus had applied the fair
value recognition provisions of original SFAS No. 123 on stock compensation
awards (rather than applying the intrinsic value measurement provisions of APB
No. 25) are disclosed in note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
Stock Compensation Plans . Although such pro forma effects of applying the
original SFAS 123 may be indicative of the effects of adopting SFAS 123R, the
provisions of these two statements differ in some important respects. The
actual effects of adopting SFAS 123R will be dependent on numerous factors
including, but not limited to, the valuation model chosen by Focus to value
stock-based awards; the assumed award forfeiture rate; the accounting policies
adopted concerning the method of recognizing the fair value of awards over the
requisite service period; and the transition method (as described below) chosen
for adopting SFAS 123R.  

SFAS 123R will be effective for Focus  fiscal quarter
beginning January 1, 2006, and allows the use of the Modified Prospective
Application Method. Under this method, SFAS 123R is applied to new awards and
to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after the effective date.
Additionally, compensation cost for the portion of awards for which the
requisite service has not been rendered (such as unvested options) and that are
outstanding as of the date of adoption shall be recognized as the remaining
requisite services are rendered. The compensation cost relating to unvested
awards at the date of adoption shall be based on the grant-date fair value of
those awards as calculated for pro forma disclosures under the original SFAS
No. 123. In addition, companies may use the Modified Retrospective Application
Method. This method may be applied to all prior years for which the original
SFAS No. 123 was effective or only to prior interim periods in the year of
initial adoption. If the Modified Retrospective Application Method is applied,
financial statements for prior periods shall be adjusted to give effect to the
fair-value-based method of accounting for awards on a consistent basis with the
pro forma disclosures required for those periods under the original SFAS No.
123.  

In November
2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,    Inventory Costs An
Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4 .   SFAS 151 amends the guidance in
ARB No. 43, Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to clarify the accounting for
abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted
material (spoilage). Among other provisions, the new rule requires that items
such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight and
re-handling costs must be recognized as current-period charges regardless of
whether they meet the criterion of  so abnormal  as stated in ARB No. 43.
Additionally, SFAS 151 requires that the allocation of fixed production
overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the
production facilities. SFAS 151 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 2005 and is required to be adopted in the first quarter of 2006,
beginning on January 1, 2006. Focus do not expect SFAS 151 to have a material financial
statement impact.  

In December
2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153,    Exchanges of Non-monetary
Assets An Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29 .   SFAS 153 eliminates the
exception from fair value measurement for non-monetary exchanges of similar
productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29,  Accounting for
Non-monetary Transactions,  and replaces it with the exception for exchanges
that do not have commercial substance. SFAS 153 specifies that a non-monetary
exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are
expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. SFAS 153 is
effective for the fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005 and is required
to be adopted in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, beginning on January 1,
2006. Focus do not expect it to have a material financial statement impact.  

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 154,    Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3   . SFAS
154 changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change
in accounting principle, and applies to all voluntary  

F-14  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

changes in accounting
principle. It also applies to changes required by an accounting pronouncement
in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific
transition provisions. This statement requires retrospective application to
prior periods  financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless
it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the
cumulative effect of the change. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes
made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. Focus does not expect
the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on its results of
operations or financial condition  

2.                                          Management s
Plans   

The accompanying
consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis,
which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of
liabilities in the normal course of business. For the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, Focus incurred net losses of $15.4 million, $11.0 million
and $1.7 million, respectively, and used net cash in operating activities of
$12.5 million, $9.4 million and $2.6 million, respectively. These factors raise
substantial doubt at Focus  ability to continue as a going concern.  

The consolidated
financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the
recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and
classification of liabilities that might be necessary should Focus be unable to
continue as a going concern. Focus  continuation as a going concern is
dependent upon its ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet its
obligations on a timely basis, to obtain additional financing as may be
required, and ultimately to return to profitability and significant positive
cash flows.  

Focus
has historically met cash needs from the proceeds of debt, the sale of common
stock in private placements and the exercise of employee stock options and
warrants. Management continues to assess its product lines in light of
technology trends and economic conditions, to identify how to enhance existing
product lines or create new distribution channels.  

Focus received gross proceeds
of $10,000,000 from the issuance of secured convertible notes to a group of
private investors in January 2006. While management believes that these funds,
along with the cash flow generated by Focus  expanding Systems business, should
be adequate to enable Focus to complete its  UWB engineering development and
launch commercialization of its UWB products, depending upon the results and
timing of its UWB initiative and the profitability of its Systems business,
Focus may need to raise further capital in 2006. There can be no assurance that
sufficient funds will be raised. Moreover, any equity financing or convertible
debt financing would result in dilution to Focus  existing stockholders and
could have a negative effect on the market price of its common stock.
Furthermore, any additional debt financing will result in higher interest
expense.  

3.                                            Business
Combinations   

Visual
Circuits Corporation   

On
May 28, 2004, Focus acquired substantially all the assets and assumed certain
liabilities of Visual Circuits pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of
Reorganization ( Reorganization Agreement ). The transaction was accounted for
as a purchase business combination at a total cost of approximately $8.9
million. Founded in 1991, Visual Circuits is a manufacturer and developer of
integrated hardware, software and network products that manage, schedule,
distribute, store and present digital video in a wide range of commercial media
applications.  

Under
the terms of the Reorganization Agreement, Visual Circuits, located in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, received 3,805,453 shares of voting common stock of
Focus, including approximately 380,000 shares placed in escrow for the recovery
by Focus of any losses resulting from the breach of covenants by Visual
Circuits. In connection with this transaction, Focus paid vFinance Investments,
Inc. a success fee of $168,000 and 80,000 shares of Focus  common stock.  

F-15  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

Visual
Circuits  results of operations are included in Focus  financial statements
from the date of acquisition, and the assets and liabilities were recorded
based on their fair values as of the date of acquisition. There were no
employee stock options or warrants assumed as a result of the acquisition.  

The
purchase price of approximately $8.9 million consisted of the fair value of the
shares of Focus common stock issued to Visual Circuits, excluding a portion of
the escrow shares associated with amounts owed by Visual Circuits to Focus (see
note 10,  Stockholders  Equity ), 80,000 shares distributed to vFinance
Investments, Inc., and acquisition costs of approximately $440,000. The
acquisition costs consisted of financial advisory, legal and accounting fees
and other direct transaction costs.  

The total purchase
price of the Visual Circuits  transaction is estimated as follows (in
thousands):  

The
purchase price allocation is as follows:  

The tangible net assets acquired represent the historical net assets of
Visual Circuits  business as of May 28, 2004. 
As required under purchase accounting, the assets and liabilities of
Visual Circuits have been adjusted to fair value.  

Focus performed an
allocation of the total purchase price of Visual Circuits to its individual
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Developed technology and in- process
research and development ( IPRD ) were identified and valued through
interviews, analysis of data provided by the Visual Circuits business
concerning development projects, their stage of development, the time and resources
needed to complete them, if applicable, their expected income generating
ability and associated risks.  The income
approach, which includes an analysis of the cash flows, and risks associated
with achieving such cash flows, was the primary technique utilized in valuing
the developed technology and IPRD.  

Where development
projects had reached technological feasibility, they were classified as
developed technology and the value assigned to developed technology was
capitalized.  The developed technology is
being amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of
three years.  

F-16  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

Where the development projects had not reached technological
feasibility and had no future alternative uses, they were classified as IPRD.
Of the total purchase price, $300,000 was allocated to IPRD, which was expensed
upon the consummation of the Reorganization Agreement in the second quarter of
2004. The value was determined by estimating the expected cash flows from the
projects once commercially viable, discounting the net cash flows back to their
present value and then applying a percentage of completion to the calculated
value. If the projects are not successfully developed, the sales and
profitability of Focus may be adversely affected in future periods. Goodwill
represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the
underlying net identifiable assets.  

The
following pro forma information presents the results of operations of Focus as
if the Visual Circuits transaction had occurred on January 1, 2003:  

COMO
Computer   Motion GmbH   

On
February 27, 2004, Focus completed the acquisition of COMO, located in Kiel,
Germany, pursuant to which COMO became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Focus. The
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase business combination at a total
cost of approximately $1.0 million. Under the terms of the agreement, Focus
acquired COMO through the issuance of 185,066 shares of its common stock and
approximately $359,000 in cash to COMO s shareholders. Focus also agreed to
issue up to an additional 46,266 shares of its common stock to COMO s
shareholders, in the event certain conditions are met at the end of 2004 and
2005. These relevant conditions were met at the end of 2004, and accordingly,
23,134 shares were issued to COMO s former shareholders in March 2005.
Additionally, Focus issued 610,096 common shares, held in escrow, to COMO s two
former shareholders who became employees of Focus. In the year ended December
31, 2005 these 610,096 common shares were sold with the net proceeds from the
sale of such shares of $509,000 remitted to Focus and recorded as an increase
in additional paid-in capital   see note 10,  Stockholders Equity . In
connection with this transaction, Focus paid vFinance Investments, Inc. a
success fee of $100,000 and 30,000 shares of Focus  common stock.  

Founded
in 1990, COMO develops, manufactures and distributes digital video solutions.
COMO s results of operations are included in Focus  financial statements from
the date of acquisition, and the assets and liabilities were recorded based on
their fair values as of the date of acquisition. There were no employee stock
options or warrants assumed as a result of the acquisition. Pro forma results
of operations have not been presented because the effect of the acquisition was
not material to Focus  financial position or results of operations.  

The
purchase price of approximately $1.0 million, consisting of 185,066 shares of
Focus common stock issued to the COMO shareholders, the fair value of the
46,266 earn-out shares included in accrued liabilities, 30,000 shares of Focus
common stock issued to vFinance, cash paid to the COMO shareholders of
$359,000, and acquisition costs of approximately $220,000, has been allocated
based on the estimated fair value of net tangible and intangible assets
acquired, and liabilities assumed. The earn-out shares are included in the
purchase price because Focus management believes it is probable that the
conditions under which such shares would become payable will be met. The value
of the 610,096 common shares issued to COMO s two shareholders and held in
escrow are not included in the purchase price  

F-17  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

(see
note 10,  Stockholders  Equity ). A summary of the allocation of the purchase
price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is as follows:  

Existing
technology is being amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated useful
life of three years.  

DVUnlimited   

In
September 2003, Focus acquired the intangible assets of DVUnlimited, a sole
proprietorship, located in Budapest, Hungary. The total purchase price was
$107,000, consisting of cash, common stock and related legal costs. The
acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and the
entire purchase price was allocated to developed technology, which will be
amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of three years.  

4.                                            Goodwill
and Intangible Assets   

The following table provides a
summary of goodwill by acquisition:  

The above goodwill is attributable to the Systems business segment.  

F-18  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

The following tables provide a
summary of the carrying amounts of intangible assets subject to amortization:  

The total expected future amortization related to intangible assets is
provided in the table below:  

Amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 was recorded as follows:   

F-19   

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

5.                                            Significant
Reserves   

A summary of the activity in the significant reserves
relating to doubtful accounts receivable, sales returns and warranty reserve is
as follows (in thousands):  

Accounts Receivable Reserve   

Sales Return
Reserve   

Warranty
Reserve   

6.                                            Inventories   

Focus
periodically reviews its inventories for excess and obsolete inventory items
and adjusts carrying costs to estimated net realizable values when they are
determined to be less than cost. As a result of this inventory review, Focus
charged approximately $475,000, $597,000 and $99,000 to cost of revenues for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

F-20  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

7.                                            Property
and Equipment   

Depreciation
and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $655,000, $235,000 and $170,000,
respectively.  

Property
and equipment includes $225,000 of equipment under capital lease at December
31, 2005. Accumulated depreciation and amortization of assets under capital
lease totaled $52,000 at December 31, 2005.  

8.                                            Borrowings   

Borrowings
consisted of the following:   

Notes
Payable    

Notes
payable to a bank and the COMO line of credit were assumed by Focus as a result
of the acquisition of COMO in February 2004   see note 3,  Business
Combinations . The notes payable and line of credit are with a local German
bank.  

F-21  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

The
notes payable to a bank, originally consisting of two notes of $191,000 and
$38,000 were denominated in Euros and were originally scheduled to be repaid
through December 2011 and December 2005, respectively, at an average interest
rate of 6% per annum. However, the bank has exercised its right to call these
notes due at its discretion and the these notes were repaid in January of 2006.  

The
notes payable are collateralized by personal guarantees of approximately
$500,000 and life insurance pledges from the two shareholders from whom Focus
purchased the shares of COMO common stock, as well as COMO s inventory,
accounts receivable and fixed assets. In the event the bank were to proceed
with claiming against the personal guarantees and/or life insurance pledges,
Focus would be responsible for reimbursing the two shareholders from whom Focus
purchased the shares of COMO common stock.  

COMO
Line of Credit   

In
connection with the COMO line of credit, Focus  German subsidiary - COMO,
maintained a cash balance with the lending institution, which was reported as
restricted cash on Focus  balance sheet at December 31, 2004. In the third
quarter of 2005, the lending institution notified Focus that it must repay all
amounts due under this line of credit by January 31, 2006. Such amounts were
repaid by December 31, 2005 and the cash was released from restriction.  

Accounts
Receivable-Based Line of Credit   

In
November 2004, Focus obtained a $4.0 million line of credit from Greater Bay  Bank under which it can borrow up
to 90% of its eligible outstanding accounts receivable. The credit line expires
on December 24, 2006 as a result of an extension granted in November 2005 and
is collateralized by a personal guarantee from Carl Berg, a Company director
and shareholder. In connection with this credit line, the bank has obtained a
first priority security interest in Focus  accounts receivable through an
agreement with Mr. Berg, which enables Mr. Berg to retain his existing security
interest in all of Focus  assets while subordinating his interest in Focus 
accounts receivable. 

The
credit line is subject to ongoing covenants including a covenant based on
operating results. Borrowings under the credit line bear interest at a rate of
prime plus 1%, which was 8.25% at December 31, 2005. In December 2004, in
connection with the establishment of this line of credit, Focus issued warrants
to the bank to purchase 77,186 shares of Focus  common stock at an exercise
price of $1.17 per share. These warrants were valued at $76,000 using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model and were amortized to general and
administrative expenses over the initial one-year term of the credit line. In
December 2005, an additional 40,000 warrants were issued to the bank at an
exercise price of $1.00 per share upon the granting of the extension to the
maturity date of the credit line. These warrants were valued at $26,000 and
will be amortized to general and administrative expenses over the one-year
extended term. At December 31, 2005, there was an outstanding balance on this
credit line of $3.0 million, the maximum then available.  

Term
Loan   

On June
28, 2005, Focus signed a term loan agreement with Greater Bay  Bank under which Focus can borrow up to
$2.5 million. The term loan has a maturity date of December 24, 2006. Mr. Berg
has personally guaranteed the loan, which is interest only until maturity and
is in addition to Focus  existing $4.0 million accounts receivable based
secured line of credit that Focus has with this bank. Interest is payable under
this term loan at prime plus 1%, which was 8.25% at December 31, 2005. In connection with Mr. Berg s personal
guarantee, Focus issued Mr. Berg a warrant to purchase 100,000 shares of common
stock at an exercise price of $0.81 per share, which expires on June 28,
2009. Focus recorded a charge of $42,000 to general and administrative expenses
at the time of issuance based on the fair value of this warrant, determined
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. At December 31, 2005, there was an outstanding balance of $2.5 million
under this term loan. 

F-22  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

9.                                           Commitments and Contingencies  

Research and
Development Agreements   

In June 2004, Focus entered into a development and
license agreement under which Focus agreed to pay $664,000 to a third party for
engineering services and the rights to certain intellectual property that will
be used in the research and development of UWB technology. Such amount was
expensed to research and development ratably over the development period from
June 2004 to January 2005 based on the level of effort incurred by the third
party. Payments were made upon the achievement of specific development
milestones by the third party, which were completed in January 2005.  

In October 2004, Focus entered into a design services
contract under which Focus agreed to pay $2.9 million to a third party for the
design and development of high performance UWB integrated circuits. In 2005 the
contract amount was increased to $3.1 million. Payments are made upon the
completion of specific milestones by the third party, which are expected to be
completed by June 2006. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, $1.8
million and $648,000, respectively, was charged to research and development
expense based on the level of effort incurred by the third party. At December
31, 2005, $622,000 was included within accrued liabilities and at December 31,
2004, $91,000 was included within prepaid expenses and other current assets.  

In
July 2005, Focus entered into a development agreement with a customer under
which the customer agreed to pay $600,000 to Focus for the joint development by
Focus and the customer of a custom product. The customer agreed to pay Focus
$600,000 in four installments of $150,000 at the completion of specific milestones.
For the year ended December 31, 2005, $336,000 was recognized as revenue based
on the level of effort incurred by Focus and $287,000 of development expense
was recorded in cost of revenue. An amount of $36,000 was recorded in accounts
receivable at December 31, 2005, representing the difference between the amount
received from the customer of $300,000 and the revenue recognized. In the event
of certain development delays, Focus will be subject to penalties not to exceed
$150,000.  

Leases   

Focus
leases office facilities and certain equipment under operating and capital
leases, with interest rates ranging from 8.5% to 39.75% per annum. Under the
lease agreements, Focus is obligated to pay for utilities, taxes, insurance and
maintenance. Total rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 was approximately $831,000, $670,000 and $504,000, respectively.  

F-23  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

Minimum
lease commitments at December 31, 2005 are as follows:  

Inventory
Purchase Commitments   

Under contract manufacturing
arrangements, contract manufacturers procure inventory to manufacture products
based upon a forecast of customer demand provided by Focus. Focus is
responsible for the financial impact on the contract manufacturer of any
reduction or product mix shift in the forecast relative to materials that the
contract manufacturer had already purchased, and is unable to return, under a
prior forecast. Such a variance in forecasted demand could require a cash
payment for finished goods in excess of current customer demand or for costs of
excess or obsolete inventory.  

At December 31, 2005, Focus had
issued non-cancelable purchase orders for approximately $1.8 million to
purchase finished goods from its contract manufacturers, and had not incurred
any significant liability for finished goods in excess of current customer
demand or for the costs of excess or obsolete inventory.  

Employment Agreements   

Focus
has employment agreements with certain corporate officers. The agreements are
generally one year in length and provide for minimum salary levels. These
agreements include severance payments of approximately half to one times each
officer s annual compensation.  

Indemnification agreements   

Focus
enters into standard indemnification agreements with its customers and certain
other business partners in the ordinary course of business. These agreements
include provisions for indemnifying the customer against any claim brought by a
third party to the extent any such claim alleges that Focus  products infringe
a patent, copyright or trademark, or misappropriate a trade secret, of that
third party. The agreements generally limit the scope of the available
remedies in a variety of industry-standard methods, including but not limited
to product usage and geography-based limitations, a right to control the
defense or settlement of any claim, and a right to replace or modify the
infringing products to make them noninfringing. Such indemnification
provisions are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 5,   Accounting for Contingencies  , and are generally
limited to the amount paid by the customer. Focus has not incurred significant
expenses related to these indemnification agreements and no material claims for
such indemnifications are outstanding as of December 31, 2005. As a result,
Focus believes the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements, if
any, to be minimal, and therefore no liability has been recorded with respect
to such indemnifications as of December 31, 2005.  

General   

From
time-to-time, Focus is party to certain other claims and legal proceedings that
arise in the ordinary course of business which, in the opinion of management,
will not have a material adverse effect on Focus  financial position or results
of operation.  

F-24  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

10.                                     Stockholders 
Equity   

Preferred Stock    

The Board of Directors ( Board ) of Focus adopted a Certificate of
Designation whereby a total of 3,000 shares of Series B preferred stock, $0.01
par value per share are authorized for issuance. Each share has a liquidation
preference in the amount of $1,190.48 plus all accrued or declared but unpaid
dividends. Cash dividends on the stock are non-cumulative and are paid at the
option of the Board of Directors. If paid, the rate shall be seven percent per
annum. The Board does not presently intend to pay dividends on the stock. At
the option of the holder, each share is convertible into 1,000 shares of Focus
common stock.  

The Board Focus adopted a Certificate of Designation whereby a total of
500 shares of Series C preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share are
authorized for issuance. Each share has a liquidation preference in the amount
of $1,560.00 plus all accrued or declared but unpaid dividends. Cash dividends
on the stock are non-cumulative and are paid at the option of the Board of
Directors. If paid, the rate shall be seven percent per annum. The Board does
not presently intend to pay dividends on the stock. At the option of the holder,
each share is convertible into 1,000 shares of Focus common stock.  

At
December 31, 2003, Focus owed Carl Berg approximately $4.4 million in principal
and accrued interest on the various notes (note 8,  Borrowings   Convertible
Promissory Notes ). On March 19, 2004, Mr. Berg converted his approximately
$3.9 million of debt and $587,000 of accrued interest into common and preferred
stock. This conversion resulted in the issuance of 2,173,193 shares of Focus 
common stock and 840 shares of Series B preferred stock and 417 shares of
Series C preferred stock, which are convertible into an additional 840,000 and
417,000 shares of Focus  common stock, respectively.  

Common Stock   

For the year
ended December 31, 2005, Focus issued at various times, an additional 268,000
shares of common stock through exercises of options, receiving cash of
approximately $152,000.  

On February
24, 2005, Focus granted 245,000 shares of restricted stock to employees and
directors of the Company. The value of these grants of $272,000 was recorded as
deferred stock-based compensation and is being amortized over the four-year
vesting period of the grants. Focus recognized $58,000 of compensation expense
related to these shares of restricted stock in the year ended December 31,
2005. At December 31, 2005, none of the shares of restricted stock had vested.  

On March 22,
2005, Focus issued warrants to purchase 35,000 shares of common stock as
compensation to unrelated parties for investor relation services. The warrants
are immediately exercisable for a period of five years at an exercise price of
$0.92 per share, were valued at
$23,000 using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and were expensed to
general and administrative expenses.  

On June 21,
2005, Focus completed the sale of 2,414,282 shares of its common stock in a
private placement to 11 independent third party investors, receiving proceeds
of approximately $1.6 million, net of offering costs of approximately $126,000.
The shares were issued at $0.70 per share, an approximate 5% discount to the
closing price of Focus  common stock on June 20, 2005. Additionally, Focus
issued warrants to the investors and placement agents to purchase an aggregate
of 795,713 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $0.70 per share. The
warrants are exercisable immediately and expire four years from the date of
grant. No compensation expense was recorded given that the warrants were issued
in connection with the issuance of common stock.  

In connection with Mr. Berg s extension of
his personal guarantee that collateralizes Focus  accounts receivable-based
line of credit - see note 8,  Borrowings   Accounts Receivable-Based Line of
Credit  - Focus issued to Mr. Berg a warrant to purchase 100,000 shares of
Focus common stock  at an
exercise price of $0.81 per share. This warrant expires on June 28, 2009, was
valued at $42,000 using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and was expensed
to general and administrative expenses.  

F-25  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

On November 7, 2005, Focus completed the sale
of 5,018,247 shares of its common stock to a group of accredited investors at a
purchase price per share of $0.66 receiving proceeds of approximately $3.0
million, net of offering costs of $332,000. The shares were issued at an
approximate 16% discount to the closing price of Focus  common stock on
November 4, 2005. In addition, warrants were issued to the investors and
placement agents to purchase an aggregate of 1,756,384 million additional
shares of Focus common stock at an exercise price of $0.85 per share. The
warrants were immediately exercisable and expire five years from the date of
grant. No compensation expense was recorded given that the warrants were issued
in connection with the issuance of common stock.  

On November 15, 2005, Focus  Board of
Directors authorized the extension of the expiration dates of 1,481,512
employee and director stock options scheduled to expire between November 16,
2005 and June 30, 2006. This resulted in a charge to general and administrative
expense of $104,000, representing the difference between the closing price of
Focus  common stock on the day of extension and the exercise price of the stock
options.  

On December 6, 2005, Focus
issued a warrant to purchase 60,000 shares of common stock as compensation to
unrelated parties for investor relation services. This warrant is immediately
exercisable for a period of four years at an exercise price of $1.00 per share,
was valued at $15,000 using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model and was expensed to general and
administrative expenses.  

On December 6, 2005, Focus
issued a warrant to purchase 40,000 shares of common stock as compensation to
Greater Bay Bank for the extension of Focus  line of credit facility extension
from November 2005 to December 24, 2006. This warrant is immediately
exercisable for a period of five years at an exercise price of $1.00 per share
and was valued at $26,000 using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The
warrant is classified as a liability and will be measured at fair value in each
reporting period, with changes in fair value reported in the statements of
operations. Classification of this warrant as a liability is based on the fact
that it requires net-cash settlement on the occurrence of certain events
outside the control of Focus. The value of the warrant will be amortized to
general and administrative expense over the life of the line of credit
extension. During the year ended December 31, 2005, $2,000 was amortized to
general and administrative expense.  

For the year
ended December 31, 2004, Focus issued at various times, 199,806 shares of
common stock through exercises of options and warrants, receiving cash of
approximately $192,000.  

The acquisition of COMO on February 27, 2004 resulted in the issuance
of 215,066 shares of Focus  common stock, consisting of 185,066 shares issued
to COMO s shareholders, and 30,000 shares issued to  vFinance
Investments, Inc., for investment banking services related to the acquisition.
Additionally, Focus issued 610,096 common shares, held in escrow, ( the Escrow
shares ) to COMO s two former shareholders ( the Sellers ) who became employees
of Focus. The Escrow shares were issued in exchange for the Sellers non-interest
bearing, non-recourse, demand notes payable to Focus and COMO in the aggregate
amount of $1.1 million. The two former shareholders of COMO were able to sell
the Escrow shares at no less than the then current fair market value, with all
proceeds to be remitted to Focus and COMO in exchange for cancellation of the
outstanding note obligations, regardless of whether such proceeds are greater
than or less than the balance of the notes. For accounting purposes, the Escrow
shares were reported in the consolidated financial statements as outstanding,
subscribed shares. In the year ended December 31, 2005 the 610,096 common
shares were sold for net proceeds of $509,000. The proceeds from the sale of
such shares were remitted to Focus by the Sellers and recorded as an increase
in additional paid-in capital. The note receivable from the Sellers was not
recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, as it was
cancelled upon the transfer from Focus to COMO of the Escrow share proceeds.
Focus also agreed to issue up to an additional 46,266 shares of its common
stock to COMO s shareholders, in the event certain conditions are met at the
end of 2004 and 2005. These relevant conditions were met at the end of 2004,
and accordingly, 23,134 shares were issued to COMO s former shareholders in
March 2005.  

On
April 6, 2004, Focus completed the sale of 3,862,070 shares of its common stock
to a group of third party investors in a private placement transaction,
receiving proceeds of approximately $5.1 million, net of offering costs of
approximately $451,000. The shares were issued at $1.45 per share, an
approximate 11% discount to the closing price of Focus  common stock on April
5, 2004. In connection with the private placement, Focus issued warrants to the
investors and to a placement agent to purchase a total of 940,414 shares of
common stock at an exercise price of $2.00 per share. No compensation expense
was recorded given that the warrants were issued in connection with the
issuance of common stock.  

F-26  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

On
May 28, 2004, Focus acquired substantially all the assets and assumed certain
liabilities of Visual Circuits pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of
Reorganization. Under the terms of the agreement, Visual Circuits, located in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, received 3,805,453 shares of voting common stock of
Focus, including approximately 380,000 shares placed in escrow for the recovery
by Focus of any losses resulting from the breach of covenants by Visual
Circuits. In connection with this transaction, Focus paid vFinance Investments,
Inc., (a related party) a success fee of $168,000 and 80,000 shares of Focus 
common stock.  The agreement also
required VCC Liquidating Corporation ( VCC ), formerly Visual Circuits, to
reimburse Focus for all transaction costs paid by Visual Circuits prior to the
acquisition. Such transaction costs, originally estimated to be $400,000 and
later reduced to approximately $337,000 upon final determination of the
transaction costs, were to have been reimbursed to Focus on or before October
8, 2004. Focus was entitled to recover the amount owed, in the event such
amount was not reimbursed to Focus, by the return to Focus of Focus common
stock held in escrow, with such number of shares to be determined by dividing
the amount owed by an agreed-upon exchange rate of $2.33 per share. VCC
subsequently sought to reduce this obligation, citing certain potential
offsetting claims against Focus. Consequently, on November 2, 2004, the parties
entered into a settlement agreement, whereby the obligation to Focus was
initially reduced to approximately $225,000, to be repaid on or before February
15, 2005. The receivable from VCC was not recorded in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2004, as the recourse available to
Focus in the event of default was limited to the shares held in escrow. On
February 15, 2005, Focus collected the amount owed of $225,000 and recorded the
proceeds as an increase in capital at that date.  

On June 1, 2004, Focus issued
warrants to purchase 50,000 shares of common stock as compensation to an
unrelated party for investor relation services. The warrants are exercisable
for a period of two to three years at exercise prices ranging from $1.35 to
$1.80 per share. Focus recorded a charge to general and administrative expenses
of approximately $32,000 for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 based on the fair
value of these warrants.  

On November 17, 2004,
Focus completed the sale of 6,666,667 shares of its common stock to a group of
third party investors in a private placement transaction, receiving proceeds of
approximately $5.6 million, net of offering costs of approximately $408,000.   In connection with the private placement, Focus issued the
purchasers warrants to purchase an aggregate of up to 1,666,668 shares of Focus 
common stock at an exercise price of $1.25 per shares. Furthermore, in
connection with the private placement Focus issued warrants to purchase 288,000
shares of common stock at $1.25 per share to the two placement agents.   No
compensation expense was recorded given that the warrants were issued in
connection with the issuance of common stock.  

Focus issued
warrants to a bank to purchase 77,186 shares of Focus  common stock at $1.17
per share in connection with a credit line Focus entered into in November 2004.
Focus recorded a charge to general and administrative expenses of approximately
$10,000 for the quarter ended December 31, 2004 based on the fair value of
these warrants.  

On
December 19, 2003, Focus  stockholders approved an increase to the authorized
common shares from 60,000,000 to 100,000,000. This increase was recommended and
approved by Focus  Board of Directors to ensure that sufficient shares were
available for issuance under Focus  stock option plans and for issuances
associated with potential acquisitions, private placements and services
provided by non-employees.  

For
the year ended December 31, 2003, Focus issued at various times 3,020,472
shares of common stock through exercises of options and warrants, receiving
cash of approximately $3.4 million.  

On
July 2, 2003, Focus completed the sale of 2,200,000 shares of its common stock
in a private placement to two independent third parties, receiving proceeds of
approximately $1.9 million, net of offering costs of $280,000. The shares were
sold at an approximate 20% discount to the five-day average closing bid prices
of Focus  common stock prior to closing. In connection with the private
placement, Focus issued warrants to the two investors and a placement  

F-27  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

agent
to purchase a total of 467,500 shares of common stock at an exercise price of
$1.44 per share. No compensation expense was recorded given that the warrants
were issued in connection with the issuance of common stock.  

Common Stock Purchase Warrants   

The
aggregate fair value of all warrants issued in connection with compensation for
financial advisory and other services charged to operations in 2005 and 2004
was calculated at approximately $149,000 and $42,000, respectively (none for
2003). Focus calculated the fair value of the warrants using the Black-Scholes
model and the following assumptions:  

Common stock
warrant activity is summarized as follows:  

Information
pertaining to warrants outstanding at December 31, 2005 is as follows:  

F-28  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

Stock Option Plans   

1992 Stock Option Plan  

Focus 
1992 Stock Option Plan (the  1992 Plan ) provides for the granting of incentive
and non-qualified options to purchase up to approximately 1.8 million shares of
common stock. Incentive stock options may be granted to employees of Focus and
non-qualified options may be granted to employees, directors or consultants.
Incentive stock options may not be granted at a price less than 100% (110% in
certain cases) of the fair-market value of common stock at date of grant.
Non-qualified options may not be granted at a price less than 85% of
fair-market value of common stock at date of grant. As of December 31, 2005,
all options granted under the 1992 Plan were issued at market value at the date
of grant. Additionally, no further options were available for grant under the
1992 Plan. Options generally vest annually over a three-year period and are
exercisable over a five-year period from date of grant. The term of each option
under the 1992 Plan is for a period not exceeding ten years from date of grant.
As of December 31, 2005, options under the 1992 Plan to purchase 182,112 shares
of the Company s common stock were outstanding with an exercise price of $1.28
per share.  

1997 Director Stock Option Plan  

In
1997, the Board of Directors adopted the 1997 Director Stock Option Plan (the  1997
Director Plan ), which authorized the grant of options to purchase up to an
aggregate of 1.0 million shares of common stock. The exercise price per share
of options granted under the 1997 Director Plan was equal to the market value
of the common stock of Focus on the date of grant. Options granted under the
1997 Director Plan are exercisable over a five-year period with vesting
determined at varying amounts over a three-year period. As of December 31,
2005, options under the 1997 Director Plan to purchase 174,574 shares of Focus 
common stock were outstanding with an exercise price between $1.15 and $1.22
per share.  

1998 Stock Option Plan  

In
1998 Focus adopted the 1998 Non-qualified Stock Option Plan (the  1998 NQSO
Plan ), which authorized the grant of options to purchase up to an aggregate of
1.3 million shares of common stock. The exercise price per share of options
granted under the 1998 NQSO Plan was equal to the market value of the common
stock of Focus on the date of grant. Options granted under the 1998 NQSO Plan
are exercisable over a five-year period with vesting determined at varying
amounts over a three-year period. As of December 31, 2005, options under the
1998 NQSO Plan to purchase 339,864 shares of Focus  common stock were
outstanding with an exercise price between $0.71 and $1.28 per share.  

F-29  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

2000
Non-Qualified Option Plan   

On
April 27, 2000, the Board of Directors of Focus adopted the 2000 Non-Qualified
Stock Option Plan (the  2000 Plan ) and on December 28, 2000 the Company s
stockholders approved the 2000 Plan. On September 28, 2005 the maximum number
of options available under the 2000 Plan was increased from 5,000,000 to
5,500,000 and the 2000 Plan was modified to allow the issuance of restricted
stock. On November 14, 2005, the Company s stockholders approved these
amendments to the 2000 Plan. Options and restricted stock under the 2000 Plan
may be granted to employees, directors or consultants of the Company. The
exercise price per share of options granted under the 2000 Plan is equal to the
market value of the common stock of the Company on the date of grant. The 2000
Plan requires that options granted will expire ten years from the date of
grant. Each option or restricted stock granted under the 2000 Plan first
becomes exercisable upon time periods set by the Compensation Committee of the
Focus Board of Directors. Options and restricted stock issued from the 2000
Plan generally vest over a period of four years.  

On
January 16, 2001 in connection with the acquisition of Videonics, options
outstanding under the Videonics 1987 Stock Option Plan and the 1996 Amended
Stock Option Plan were exchanged for Focus 2000 Plan options to purchase common
stock. Focus issued 0.87 shares of Focus options for each issued and
outstanding share of Videonics options on the closing date. Based on the
exchange ratio, a total of 1,117,597 shares were issued. Such options retained
their original vesting periods of three to four years and are canceled 90 days
after termination of employment. As of December 31, 2005, options under the
2000 Plan, including those converted in connection with the Videonics merger,
to purchase 2,882,914 shares of Focus  common stock were outstanding with an
exercise price between $0.56 and $1.57.  

2002
Non-Qualified Option Plan   

On
October 30, 2002, the Board of Directors of Focus adopted the 2002
Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (the  2002 Plan ). Focus  stockholders approved
the 2002 Plan on December 20, 2002. On September 24, 2003 the maximum number of
options available under the 2002 Plan was increased from 1,000,000 to 2,200,000.
On December 19, 2003 Focus  stockholders approved the amendment to the 2002
Plan. Options under the 2002 Plan may be granted to employees, directors or
consultants of the Company. The exercise price per share of options granted
under the 2002 Plan is equal to the market value of the common stock of the
Company on the date of grant. The 2002 Plan requires that options granted will
expire ten years from the date of grant. Each option granted under the 2002
Plan first becomes exercisable upon time periods set by the Compensation
Committee of the Focus Board of Directors. Options and restricted stock issued
from the 2002 Plan generally vest over a period of four years.  As of December 31, 2005, options under the 2002
Plan to purchase 1,884,837 shares of Focus  common stock were outstanding with
an exercise price between $0.75 and $2.22 per share.  

2004
Non-Qualified Option Plan   

On
May 27, 2004, Focus  Board of Directors adopted, and on August 6, 2004 Focus 
shareholders approved, the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2004 Plan ). Options
and restricted stock under the 2004 Plan may be granted to employees, directors
or consultants of the Company. The exercise price per share of options granted
under the 2004 Plan is equal to the market value of the common stock of the
Company on the date of grant. The 2004 Plan requires that options granted will
expire ten years from the date of grant. Each option or restricted stock
granted under the 2004 Plan first becomes exercisable upon time periods set by
the Compensation Committee of the Focus Board of Directors. Options and
restricted stock issued from the 2004 Plan generally vest over a period of
three to five years. As of December 31, 2005, options under the 2004 Plan to
purchase 1,789,486 shares of Focus  common stock were outstanding with an
exercise price between $0.73 and $1.14 per share.  

A summary of activity related
to Focus  stock incentive plans follows:  

F-30  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements   

At
December 31, 2005, options and restricted stock available for grant under all
plans totaled 1,494,506.  

Information
pertaining to options outstanding at December 31, 2005 is as follows:  

11.                                   Net Loss Per Share   

The
following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net loss per
share:  

F-31  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

The
following table summarizes common stock equivalents that are not included in
the denominator or used in the diluted net loss per share calculation because
to do so would be antidilutive for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003:  

12.                                      Income Taxes    

Focus 
tax benefit of $23,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, is comprised of a
$47,000 tax benefit generated by its foreign subsidiary, COMO, offset by a
$24,000 tax provision related to minimum tax payments due within the United
States and foreign locations. The $47,000 tax benefit generated by COMO results
primarily from the tax benefit associated with 2005 operating losses and the
reduction of a deferred tax liability associated with the amortization of
intangible assets. Focus  tax benefit of $282,000 for the year ended December
31, 2004, is comprised of a $298,000 tax benefit generated by COMO, offset by a
$16,000 tax provision related to minimum tax payments due within the United
States and foreign locations. The $298,000 tax benefit generated by COMO
results primarily from the tax benefit associated with 2004 operating losses
and the reduction of a deferred tax liability associated with the amortization
of intangible assets.  

The
differences between the provision (benefit) for income taxes from the provision
(benefit) computed by applying the statutory Federal income tax rate are as
follows:  

F-32  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

The
net deferred tax asset (liability) consists of the following:  

F-33  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

The
tax effects of each type of income and expense item that give rise to deferred
taxes are as follows:  

A
summary of the change in the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets is as
follows:  

F-34  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

At
December 31, 2005, Focus had the following carryforwards available for income
tax purposes:  

Due
to the uncertainty surrounding the realization of these favorable tax
attributes, Focus has placed a valuation allowance against its otherwise
recognizable net deferred tax assets. Current federal and state tax laws
include substantial restrictions on the utilization of tax credits in the event
of an  ownership change  of a corporation, as provided in Section 382 of the
Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, Focus  utilization of its net operating
losses and tax credits will be limited.  

13.                                     Business
Segment and Geographic Information   

Focus 
reportable segments are Systems and Semiconductor. These reportable segments
have distinct products   Systems consists of products designed to provide
solutions in PC-to-TV scan conversion, video presentation, digital-video
conversion, video production and digital asset management markets and
Semiconductor consists of ASICs. Focus  chief operating decision maker is the
CEO.  

The
accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described
in the summary of significant accounting policies. Focus evaluates segment
performance based on operating income (loss) and does not allocate net
interest, other income or taxes to operating segments. Additionally, Focus does
not allocate assets by operating segment. Segment results reported below for
the year ended December 31, 2003 were not available in that year and were
constructed for comparative purposes.  

F-35  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

F-36  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

Geographic
and Customer Information   

During
2003, Focus established a semiconductor sales and application support office in
Taiwan. All orders taken by the Taiwan sales office are approved by Focus 
United States headquarters and shipped from the United States. In February
2004, Focus completed the acquisition of COMO, located in Kiel, Germany,
pursuant to which COMO became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Focus   see note 3,  Business
Combinations . COMO is included within the Systems reporting segment. The net
book value of long-lived assets located outside the United States totaled $1.5
million and $1.8 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.  

For
the year ended December 31, 2004 one distributor from Focus  Systems business
represented 11% of Focus  total net revenue. For the year ended December 31,
2003 one customer from Focus  Systems business represented 37% of Focus  total
net revenue. No customers represented more than 10% of Focus  net revenue for
the year ended December 31, 2005.  

The
following table summarizes revenue by geographic area, based on customer
billing address:  

F-37  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

14.                                     Employee
Benefit Plan   

Effective
July 1, 1998, Focus implemented a Section 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan (the  401(k)
Plan ) for all eligible employees. Focus may make discretionary contributions
to the 401(k) Plan. Employees are permitted to make elective deferrals of up to
15% of employee compensation and employee contributions to the 401(k) Plan are
fully vested at all times. Depending on the Plan, Focus  contributions either
become vested over a period of five years or are vested immediately. For the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, Focus made contributions of
approximately $162,000, $59,000 and $23,000, respectively.  

15.                                     Related
Party Transactions   

Carl
Berg   

In December 2002,
Mr. Berg provided Samsung Semiconductor Inc., Focus  contracted ASIC manufacturer,
with a personal guarantee to secure Focus  working capital requirements for
ASIC purchase order fulfillment. Mr. Berg agreed to provide the personal
guarantee on Focus  behalf without additional cost or collateral, as Mr. Berg
maintains a secured priority interest in substantially all of Focus  assets. At
December 31, 2005, Focus owed Samsung $342,000, under net 30 terms.  

As discussed in
note 10,  Stockholders  Equity  at December 31, 2003, Focus owed Mr. Berg
approximately $4.4 million in principal and accrued interest on various note
payable agreements. On March 19, 2004, Mr. Berg converted his approximately
$3.9 million of debt and $587,000 of accrued interest into common and preferred
stock. This conversion resulted in the issuance of 2,173,193 shares of Focus 
common stock and 840 shares of Series B preferred stock and 417 shares of
Series C preferred stock, which are convertible into an additional 840,000 and
417,000 shares of Focus  common stock, respectively.  

In November 2004,
Focus secured a line of credit of up to $4.0 million under which Focus can
borrow up to 90% of its eligible outstanding accounts receivable. This line of
credit is secured by a personal guarantee from Mr. Berg. In connection with
this line of credit, the bank will obtain a priority security interest in Focus 
accounts receivable. Mr. Berg will maintain his security interest in all Focus 
assets, subject to the bank s lien on accounts receivable.  

On June
28, 2005, Focus signed a term loan agreement with Greater Bay  Bank under which Focus can borrow up to
$2.5 million - see note 8,  Borrowings . Mr. Berg has personally guaranteed the
term loan. In connection with Mr. Berg s extension of his personal guarantee,
Focus agreed to continue Mr. Berg s priority interest in the Company s assets,
except for Focus  accounts receivable, which Mr. Berg has subordinated to the
bank, and to issue to Mr. Berg a warrant to purchase 100,000 shares of common
stock at an exercise price of $0.81 per share and which expires on June
28, 2009. The warrant was valued at $42,000 using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model and was charged to general and administrative expense at
the time of issuance. 

Dolby Laboratories Inc.   

N.
William Jasper Jr., who is the Chairman of Focus  Board of Directors, is also
the President and Chief Executive Officer of Dolby Laboratories, Inc. ( Dolby ),
a signal processing technology company located in San Francisco, California.
Focus is required to submit quarterly royalty payments to Dolby based on Dolby
technology incorporated into certain products assumed in the acquisition of
Visual Circuits. For the year ended December 31, 2005 and from the date of
acquisition of Visual Circuits in May 2004 through December 31, 2004, Focus
paid Dolby $21,000 and $33,000 in royalties, which were recorded in cost of
revenue.   

F-38  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

Norman
Schlomka   

Norman
Schlomka, General Manager of COMO and an executive officer of Focus since
February 2006, owns one third of the building that COMO partially occupies. In
the year ended December 31, 2005, Focus paid rents of approximately $60,000
related to this building.  

vFinance, Inc.    

Timothy Mahoney is the
Chairman and C.O.O. of vFinance, Inc., the parent company to vFinance
Investments and vFinance Consulting, and owns approximately 20% of the shares
of vFinance Inc. Mr. Mahoney was a member of the Focus Board of Directors from
March 1997 until August 2004.  

In
February 2003, Focus engaged vFinance Investments to assist it with the
preparation of a strategic business plan. In connection with the preparation of
the business plan, Focus incurred consulting expenses of $50,000 during 2003,
which were included in general and administrative expenses. Focus also engaged
vFinance Investments from July 1, 2003 to December 31, 2003, to act as its
exclusive financial advisor for the purpose of merger and acquisition services.
In connection with such financial advisory services, Focus incurred consulting
expenses of $45,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003, which were included
in general and administrative expenses. In connection with its efforts to find
investors for Focus in a private placement completed on July 2, 2003, vFinance
Investments received $137,500 and out-of-pocket expenses, including legal fees,
of $27,500. All such cash payments to vFinance Investments were recorded as
reductions of the proceeds received from the private placements.  

Focus
paid vFinance Investments $268,000 in fees and 110,000 shares of common stock
during 2004 in connection with the acquisitions of COMO and Visual Circuits.  

16.           Unaudited Quarterly Financial Data    

Included in the net losses in the first, second, third
and fourth quarters of 2005 and the third and fourth quarters of 2004 were
charges for inventory obsolescence of $148,000, $91,000, $39,000, $197,000,
$215,000 and $381,000, respectively. Included in the net loss in the second
quarter of 2004 is a charge of $300,000 for in-process research and development
expense that was incurred in relation to the acquisition of Visual Circuits.  

In the first, second and third quarters of 2004, after
filing its Form 10-Q for each of these quarters, Focus reclassified
amortization of $18,000, $40,000, and $45,000, respectively, with respect to
developed technology costs associated with software products, from the
amortization line item within operating expenses to cost of product revenue
within gross margin. Management determined that such reclassifications were not
material to any of the quarters.  

A data processing error understated cost of revenue
and net loss by $49,000 in the third quarter of 2004 and was corrected by
increasing cost of revenues and net loss in the fourth quarter of 2004 by an
equal amount. Focus  

F-39  

Focus Enhancements, Inc.   

   Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements   

determined that such adjustment was not material to
results of either quarter.  

17.                                        Subsequent Event    

Issuance
of Senior Secured Convertible Notes   

On January 27, 2006,
Focus received proceeds of $10,000,000 for the issuance of senior secured
convertible notes (the  Notes ) to a group of private investors. The Notes
mature on January 1, 2011 and bear interest at a 10% annual rate with payment
dates on June 30 and December 30 of each year. The Notes are secured by all of
the assets of Focus. There were no placement agent fees or commissions payable
with respect to the purchase or issuance of the Notes.  

The Purchase Agreement
provides that Focus may, at its discretion, elect to pay the interest due on
June 30, 2006, December 30, 2006 and June 30, 2007 in cash or by issuing
additional Notes for the full amount of such interest payment. The Notes are
convertible at the option of the holder at any time at the initial conversion
rate of one share of Focus common stock per $1.00 principal amount of Note and
are redeemable, in whole or in part, at any time at Focus  option upon 30 days 
prior written notice to the Note holders at a redemption price equal to 102% of
the principal amount of the Notes then outstanding plus accrued and unpaid
interest.  

F-40  

Signatures   

In accordance
with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

FOCUS
  ENHANCEMENTS, INC.  

By:  

/s/ Brett
  Moyer  

Brett Moyer,
  President   CEO  

In accordance
with the Exchange Act, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.  

Signature   

Title   

Date   

/s/ N. William Jasper, Jr.  

Chairman of the Board  

March 31, 2006  

N. William
  Jasper, Jr.  

/s/ Brett A.
  Moyer   

President,
  Chief Executive  

March 31,
  2006  

Brett A.
  Moyer  

Officer and
  Director  

/s/ Gary L.
  Williams  

Principal
  Accounting Officer  

March 31,
  2006  

Gary L.
  Williams  

Vice
  President of Finance 
  and CFO  

/s/ Carl E.
  Berg  

Director  

March 31,
  2006  

Carl E. Berg  

/s/ William
  B. Coldrick  

Director  

March 31,
  2006  

William B.
  Coldrick  

Director  

Michael
  D Addio  

/s/ Tommy
  Eng  

Director  

March 31,
  2006  

Tommy Eng  

Director  

Sam Runco  

<EX-4.14>
 2
 a06-2037_1ex4d14.htm
 INSTRUMENTS DEFINING THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS, INCLUDING INDENTURES

Exhibit 4.14   

THESE SECURITIES
HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, OR THE
SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE AND MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OFFERED FOR SALE IN
THE ABSENCE OF AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT FOR THE SECURITIES OR AN
OPINION OF COUNSEL OR OTHER EVIDENCE ACCEPTABLE TO THE COMPANY THAT SUCH
REGISTRATION IS NOT REQUIRED.   

FOCUS
ENHANCEMENTS, INC.   

COMMON
STOCK PURCHASE WARRANT  

1.         Issuance;
Certain Definitions.  For good and valuable consideration, the receipt of
which is hereby acknowledged by   FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS, INC.  ,
a Delaware corporation (the  Company ),   Crestline
Consultancy Ltd    ,   or registered
assigns (the  Holder ) is hereby granted the right to purchase at any time
until 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on   December 6,
2009   (the  Expiration Date ),   60,000 (sixty thousand)  
fully paid and non-assessable shares of the Company s Common Stock, $0.01 par
value per share (the  Common Stock ), at an initial exercise price (the  Exercise
Price ) of   $1.00 (one dollar)   per     share, subject to further adjustment as set forth
herein.  These shares are exercisable
immediately  

2.         Exercise
of Warrants.  

(a)                                     This
Warrant is exercisable in whole or in part at any time and from time to
time.  Such exercise shall be effectuated
by submitting to the Company (either by delivery to the Company or by facsimile
transmission as provided in Section 8 hereof) a completed and duly
executed Notice of Exercise (substantially in the form attached to this
Warrant) as provided in this paragraph. 
The date such Notice of Exercise is faxed to the Company shall be the  Exercise
Date,  provided that the Holder of this Warrant tenders this Warrant
Certificate to the Company within five (5) business days thereafter and at
the time of such Notice of Exercise the Company has received payment for the
shares being purchased.  The Notice of
Exercise shall be executed by the Holder of this Warrant and shall indicate the
number of shares then being purchased pursuant to such exercise.  Upon surrender of this Warrant Certificate,
together with appropriate payment of the Exercise Price for the shares of
Common Stock purchased, the Holder shall be entitled to receive a certificate
or certificates for the shares of Common Stock so purchased. 

(b)                                    The
Exercise Price per share of Common Stock for the shares then being exercised
shall be payable in cash by wire, certified or official bank check. 

(c)                                     In
no event shall Holder exercise this Warrant for less than ten thousand (10,000)
Warrant Shares unless the Holder has a Warrant for less than ten thousand
(10,000) Warrant Shares, in which case Holder shall be required to exercise the
Warrant for all remaining Warrant Shares on the Exercise Date. 

(d)                                    The
Holder shall be deemed to be the holder of the shares issuable to it in accordance
with the provisions of this Section 2 only on and after the Exercise Date. 

3.         Reservation
of Shares.  At all times during the term of this Warrant the Company shall
reserve for issuance upon exercise of this Warrant such number of shares of its
Common Stock as shall be required for issuance upon exercise of this Warrant
(the  Warrant Shares ). 

4.         Mutilation
or Loss of Warrant.   Upon receipt by
the Company of evidence satisfactory to it of the loss, theft, destruction or
mutilation of this Warrant, and (in the case of loss, theft or destruction)
receipt of reasonably satisfactory indemnification, and (in the case of
mutilation) upon surrender and cancellation of this Warrant, the Company will
execute and deliver a new Warrant of like tenor and date and any such lost,
stolen, destroyed or mutilated Warrant shall thereupon become void. 

5.         Rights
of the Holder.   Until the Warrant is
exercised in whole or in part, the Holder shall not, by virtue hereof, be
entitled to any rights of a stockholder in the Company, either at law or
equity, and the rights of the Holder shall be limited to those expressed in
this Warrant and are not enforceable against the Company except to the extent
set forth herein. 

6.         Adjustments.  

6.1                                     Adjustment
Mechanism.   If an adjustment of the
Exercise Price is required pursuant to this Section 6, the Holder shall be
entitled to purchase such number of shares of Common Stock as will cause (i) the
total number of shares of Common Stock Holder is entitled to purchase pursuant
to this Warrant, multiplied by (ii) the adjusted Exercise Price per share,
to equal (iii) the dollar amount of the total number of shares of Common
Stock Holder is entitled to purchase before adjustment multiplied by the total
Exercise Price immediately before adjustment. 

6.2                                     Capital
Adjustments.   In case of any stock
split or reverse stock split, stock dividend, reclassification of the Common
Stock, recapitalization, merger or consolidation, or like capital adjustment
affecting the Common Stock of the Company prior to the exercise of this Warrant
or its applicable portion, the provisions of this Section 6 shall be
applied as if such capital adjustment event had occurred immediately prior to
the exercise date of this Warrant and the original Exercise Price had been fairly
allocated to the stock resulting from such capital adjustment; and in other
respects the provisions of this Section shall be applied in a fair,
equitable and reasonable manner, as determined by the Company s Board of
Directors in its absolute discretion,  so
as to give effect, as nearly as may be practicable, to the purposes hereof. 

6.3                                     Spin
Off.   If, for any reason, prior to
the exercise of this Warrant in full, the Company spins off or otherwise
divests itself of a part of its business or operations or disposes all or of a
part of its assets in a transaction (the  Spin Off ) in which the Company does
not receive compensation for such business, operations or assets, but causes
securities of another entity to be issued to Common Stock security holders of
the Company, then the Company shall notify 

2  

the Holder at least twenty (20) days prior to the
record date with respect to such Spin-Off.  

7.         Transfer
to Comply with the Securities Act; Restriction on Sales; Registration Rights.  

7.1                                     Transfer.   This Warrant has not been registered under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the  Act ) and has been issued to the
Holder for investment and not with a view to the distribution of either the
Warrant or the Warrant Shares.  Neither
this Warrant nor any of the Warrant Shares or any other security issued or
issuable upon exercise of this Warrant may be sold, transferred, pledged or
hypothecated in the absence of an effective registration statement under the
Act relating to such security or an opinion of counsel satisfactory to the
Company that registration is not required under the Act.  Each certificate for the Warrant, the Warrant
Shares and any other security issued or issuable upon exercise of this Warrant
shall contain a legend on the face thereof, in form and substance satisfactory
to counsel for the Company, setting forth the restrictions on transfer
contained in this Section. 
Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, of  Exhibit 1,  or
of applicable securities laws, including, without limitation, Rule 144,  Holder agrees that under no circumstances
shall Holder sell, alienate or otherwise transfer all or any portion of the
Warrant or Warrant Shares before March 22, 2006. 

7.2                                     Registration
Rights.  As set forth in Exhibit 1, Holder shall have piggy-back
registration rights with respect to the Warrant Shares then held by the Holder
or then subject to issuance upon exercise of this Warrant (collectively, the  Remaining
Warrant Shares ). 

8.  Notices  .  Any notice or other communication required or
permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally
(including by recognized courier), sent by facsimile transmission, or sent by
certified, registered or express mail, postage pre-paid.  Any such notice shall be deemed given when so
delivered personally, or sent by facsimile transmission, or, if mailed, four
days after the date of prepaid deposit in the United States mail, certified,
registered or overnight delivery as follows: 

if to the Company, to:  

FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS, INC.  

  1370 Dell Avenue  

  Campbell, California 95008  

  ATTN: Gary Williams, Chief Financial Officer  

  Telephone No.: (408) 866-8300  

  Facsimile No.:  (408) 866-4795  

with a copy to:  

Manatt, Phelps   Phillips, LLP  

  1001 Page Mill Road, Bldg. 2  

  Palo Alto, California 94304  

3  

Attn: Jerrold F. Petruzzelli, Esq.  

  Telephone No.: (650) 812-1335  

  Telecopier No.: (650) 213-0260  

(ii) if
to the Holder, to:  

Telecopier No.:  

Any party may give notice to the
other parties designated in accordance with this Section to change its
respective address or addressee for notices.  

9.    Supplements
and Amendments; Whole Agreement.  
This Warrant may be amended or supplemented only by an instrument in
writing signed by the parties hereto. 
This Warrant contains the full understanding of the parties with respect
to its subject matter,  and there are no
representations, warranties, agreements or understandings other than expressly
contained herein and therein.  

10.               Governing
Law.   This Warrant shall be deemed to
be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware for contracts to be
wholly performed in such state and without giving effect to the principles
thereof regarding the conflict of laws. 
Each of the parties consents to the jurisdiction of the federal courts
whose districts encompass any part of the State of California, Santa Clara
County in connection with any dispute arising under this Warrant and hereby
waives, to the maximum extent permitted by law, any objection, including any
objection based on   forum non conveniens  , to the
bringing of any such proceeding in such jurisdictions. 

11.   Jury
Trial Waiver.   The Company and the
Holder hereby waive a trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim
brought by either of the parties hereto against the other in respect of any
matter arising out or in connection with this Warrant.  

12.   Counterparts.   This Warrant may be executed in any number of
counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to
be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and
the same instrument.  

13.   Descriptive
Headings .  Descriptive headings of
the several Sections of this Warrant are inserted for convenience only and shall
not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions
hereof.  

4  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed
this Warrant as of the 6 th  day of December, 2005.  

FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS, INC.   

By:  

/s/ Gary Williams  

Name: Gary Williams  

Title: EVP of Finance   CFO  

5  

NOTICE
OF EXERCISE OF WARRANT  

The undersigned
hereby irrevocably elects to exercise the right, represented by the Warrant
Certificate dated as of                                                   ,        ,
to purchase                           shares
of the Common Stock, $0.01 par value, of   FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS, INC.,    and tenders herewith payment in accordance
with Section 1 of said Common Stock Purchase Warrant.  

CASH:$                                             
=   (Exercise Price x Exercise Shares)  

Payment
is being made by:  

enclosed check  

wire transfer  

other  

Please deliver the
stock certificate to:  

Dated:  

[Name of Holder]  

By:  

</EX-4.14>

<EX-4.15>
 3
 a06-2037_1ex4d15.htm
 INSTRUMENTS DEFINING THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS, INCLUDING INDENTURES

Exhibit 4.15   

THIS WARRANT AND THE
SHARES ISSUABLE HEREUNDER HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF
1933, AS AMENDED, AND MAY NOT BE SOLD, PLEDGED, OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED
WITHOUT AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION THEREOF UNDER SUCH ACT OR PURSUANT TO RULE
144 OR AN OPINION OF COUNSEL REASONABLY SATISFACTORY TO THE CORPORATION AND ITS
COUNSEL, THAT SUCH REGISTRATION IS NOT REQUIRED.  

WARRANT TO PURCHASE STOCK  

THIS
WARRANT CERTIFIES THAT, for the agreed upon value of $1.00 and for other good
and valuable consideration, GREATER BAY BANCORP ( Holder ) is entitled to
purchase the number of fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock (the
 Shares ) of the corporation (the  Company ) at the price per Share (the  Warrant
Price ) all as set forth herein and as adjusted pursuant to Article 2 of
this Warrant, subject to the provisions and upon the terms and conditions set
forth of this Warrant.  

ARTICLE 1.                EXERCISE   .  

1.1               Method
of Exercise .  Holder may exercise
this Warrant by delivering a duly executed Notice of Exercise in substantially
the form attached as Appendix 1 to the principal office of the
Company.  Unless Holder is exercising the
conversion right set forth in Section 1.2, Holder shall also deliver to
the Company a check for the aggregate Warrant Price for the Shares being purchased. 

1.2               Conversion
Right .  In lieu of exercising this
Warrant as specified in Section 1.1, Holder may from time to time convert
this Warrant, in whole or in part, into a number of Shares determined by
dividing (a) the aggregate fair market value of the Shares or other
securities otherwise issuable upon exercise of this Warrant minus the aggregate
Warrant Price of such Shares by (b) the fair market value of one
Share.  The fair market value of the
Shares shall be determined pursuant Section 1.4. 

1.3               No Rights
of Shareholder .  This Warrant does
not entitle Holder to any voting rights as a shareholder of the Company prior
to the exercise hereof. 

1.4               Fair
Market Value .  If the Shares are
traded in a public market, the fair market value of the Shares shall be the
closing price of the Shares (or the closing price of the Company s stock into
which the Shares are convertible) reported for the business day immediately
before Holder delivers its Notice of Exercise to the Company.  If the Shares are not traded in a public
market, the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine fair market value
in its reasonable good faith judgment. 
The foregoing notwithstanding, if Holder advises the Board of Directors
in writing that Holder disagrees with such determination, then the Company and
Holder shall promptly agree upon a reputable investment banking or public
accounting firm to undertake such valuation. 
If the valuation of such investment banking firm is greater than that
determined by the Board of Directors, then all fees and expenses of such
investment banking firm shall be paid by the Company.  In all other circumstances, such fees and
expenses shall be paid by Holder. 

1.5               Delivery
of Certificate and New Warrant . 
Promptly after Holder exercises or converts this Warrant, the Company
shall deliver to Holder certificates for the Shares acquired and, if this
Warrant has not been fully exercised or converted and has not expired, a new
Warrant representing the Shares not so acquired. 

1.6               Replacement
of Warrants .  On receipt of evidence
reasonably satisfactory to the Company of the loss, theft, destruction or
mutilation of this Warrant and, in the case of loss, theft or destruction, on
delivery of an 

1  

indemnity agreement reasonably satisfactory in form and amount to the
Company or, in the case of mutilation, or surrender and cancellation of this
Warrant, the Company at its expense shall execute and deliver, in lieu of this
Warrant, a new warrant of like tenor.  

1.7               Repurchase
on Sale, Merger, or Consolidation of the Company . 

1.7.1             Acquisition  .  For the purpose of this Warrant,  Acquisition 
means any sale, license, or other disposition of all or substantially all of
the assets of the Company, or any reorganization, consolidation, or merger of
the Company where the holders of the Company s securities before the
transaction beneficially own less than 50% of the outstanding voting securities
of the surviving entity after the transaction. 

1.7.2            Assumption
of Warrant .  Upon the closing of any
Acquisition the successor entity shall assume the obligations of this Warrant,
and this Warrant shall be exercisable for the same securities, cash, and
property as would be payable for the Shares issuable upon exercise of the
unexercised portion of this Warrant as if such Shares were outstanding on the
record date for the Acquisition and subsequent closing.  The Warrant Price shall be adjusted
accordingly. 

1.7.3            Purchase
Right .  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, at the election of Holder, the Company shall purchase the
unexercised portion of this Warrant for cash upon the closing of any
Acquisition for an amount equal to (a) the fair market value of any
consideration that would have been received by Holder in consideration of the
Shares had Holder exercised the unexercised portion of this Warrant immediately
before the record date for determining the shareholders entitled to participate
in the proceeds of the Acquisition, less (b) the aggregate Warrant Price
of the Shares, but in no event less than zero. 

ARTICLE 2.                ADJUSTMENTS TO THE SHARES   .  

2.1               Stock
Dividends, Splits, Etc .   If the
Company declares or pays a dividend on its common stock payable in common
stock, or other securities, subdivides the outstanding common stock into a
greater amount of common stock,  then
upon exercise of this Warrant, for each Share acquired, Holder shall receive,
without cost to Holder, the total number and kind of securities to which Holder
would have been entitled had Holder owned the Shares of record as of the date
the dividend or subdivision occurred. 

2.2               Reclassification,
Exchange or Substitution .  Upon any
reclassification, exchange, substitution, or other event that results in a
change of the number and/or class of the securities issuable upon exercise or
conversion of this Warrant, Holder shall be entitled to receive, upon exercise
or conversion of this Warrant, the number and kind of securities and property
that Holder would have received for the Shares if this Warrant had been
exercised immediately before such reclassification, exchange, substitution, or
other event.  The Company or its
successor shall promptly issue to Holder a new Warrant for such new securities
or other property.  The new Warrant shall
provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be
practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article 2 including,
without limitation, adjustments to the Warrant Price and to the number of
securities or property issuable upon exercise of the new Warrant.  The provisions of this Section 2.2 shall
similarly apply to successive reclassifications, exchanges, substitutions, or
other events. 

2.3               Adjustments
for Combinations, Etc .  If the
outstanding Shares are combined or consolidated, by reclassification or
otherwise, into a lesser number of shares, the Warrant Price shall be
proportionately increased. 

2.4               No
Impairment .  The Company shall not,
by amendment of its Certificate of Incorporation or through a reorganization,
transfer of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution, issue, or sale of
securities or any other voluntary action, avoid or seek to avoid the observance
or performance of any of the terms to be observed or performed under this
Warrant by the Company, but shall at all times in good faith assist in carrying
out of all the provisions of this Article 2 and in taking all such action
as may be necessary or appropriate to protect Holder s rights under this Article against
impairment.  If the Company takes any
action affecting the Shares or its common stock other than as described above
that adversely affects Holder s rights under this Warrant, the Warrant Price
shall be adjusted downward and the number of Shares issuable upon exercise of
this Warrant shall be adjusted upward in such a manner that the aggregate
Warrant Price of this Warrant is unchanged. 

2  

2.5               Fractional
Shares .  No fractional Shares shall
be issuable upon exercise or conversion of the Warrant and the number of Shares
to be issued shall be rounded down to the nearest whole Share.  If a fractional share interest arises upon
any exercise or conversion of the Warrant, the Company shall eliminate such
fractional share interest by paying Holder amount computed by multiplying the
fractional interest by the fair market value of a full Share. 

2.6               Certificate
as to Adjustments .  Upon each
adjustment of the Warrant Price, the Company at its expense shall promptly
compute such adjustment, and furnish Holder with a certificate of its Chief
Financial Officer setting forth such adjustment and the facts upon which such
adjustment is based.  The Company shall,
upon written request, furnish Holder a certificate setting forth the Warrant
Price in effect upon the date thereof and the series of adjustments leading to
such Warrant Price. 

ARTICLE 3.                REPRESENTATIONS AND COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY   .  

3.1               Representations
and Warranties .  The Company hereby
represents and warrants to the Holder that all Shares which may be issued upon
the exercise of the purchase right represented by this Warrant, and all
securities, if any, issuable upon conversion of the Shares, shall, upon
issuance, be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and
free of any liens and encumbrances except for restrictions on transfer provided
for herein or under applicable federal and state securities laws.  The Company shall at all times reserve a
sufficient number of shares of common stock for issuance upon Holder s exercise
of its rights hereunder. 

3.2               Notice
of Certain Events .  If the Company proposes
at any time (a) to declare any dividend or distribution upon its common
stock, whether in cash, property, stock, or other securities and whether or not
a regular cash dividend; (b) to offer for subscription pro rata to the
holders of any class or series of its stock any additional shares of stock of
any class or series or other rights; (c) to effect any reclassification or
recapitalization of common stock; (d) to merge or consolidate with or into
any other corporation, or sell, lease, license, or convey all or substantially
all of its assets, or to liquidate, dissolve or wind up; or (e) offer
holders of registration rights the opportunity to participate in an
underwritten public offering of the company s securities for cash, then, in
connection with each such event, the Company shall give Holder (1) at
least 20 days prior written notice of the date on which a record will be
taken for such dividend, distribution, or subscription rights (and specifying
the date on which the holders of common stock will be entitled thereto) or for
determining rights to vote, if any, in respect of the matters referred to in (c) and
(d) above; (2) in the case of the matters referred to in (c) and
(d) above at least 20 days prior written notice of the date when the
same will take place (and specifying the date on which the holders of common
stock will be entitled to exchange their common stock for securities or other
property deliverable upon the occurrence of such event); and (3) in the
case of the matter referred to in (e) above, the same notice as is given
to the holders of such registration rights. 

3.3               Information
Rights .  So long as the Holder holds
this Warrant and/or any of the Shares, the Company shall deliver to the Holder (a) promptly
after mailing, copies of all notices or other written communications to the
shareholders of the Company, (b) within ninety (90) days after the end of
each fiscal year of the Company, the annual financial statements of the
Company. 

3.4               Registration
Under Securities Act of 1933, as amended . 
The Company hereby grants to Holder the registration rights described in
the Registration Rights Agreement by and between the Company and the Holder
dated as of November 15, 2004. 

ARTICLE 4.                MISCELLANEOUS   .  

4.1               Term .  This Warrant is exercisable, in whole or in
part, at any time and from time to time on or before the Expiration Date set
forth above. 

4.2               Legends .  This Warrant and the Shares (and the
securities issuable, directly or indirectly, upon conversion of the Shares, if
any) shall be imprinted with a legend in substantially the following form: 

3  

THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, AND MAY NOT BE SOLD, PLEDGED OR
OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHOUT AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION THEREOF UNDER SUCH ACT
OR PURSUANT TO RULE 144 OR AN OPINION OF COUNSEL REASONABLY SATISFACTORY TO THE
CORPORATION AND ITS COUNSEL THAT SUCH REGISTRATION IS NOT REQUIRED.  

4.3               Compliance
with Securities Laws on Transfer . 
This Warrant and the Shares issuable upon exercise this Warrant (and the
securities issuable, directly or indirectly, upon conversion of the Shares, if
any) may not be transferred or assigned in whole or in part without compliance
with applicable federal and state securities laws by the transferor and the
transferee (including, without limitation, the delivery of investment
representation letters and legal opinions reasonably satisfactory to the
Company, as reasonably requested by the Company).  The Company shall not require Holder to
provide an opinion of counsel if the transfer is to an affiliate of Holder or
if there is no material question as to the availability of current information
as referenced in Rule 144(c), Holder represents that it has complied with Rule 144(d) and
(e) in reasonable detail, the selling broker represents that it has
complied with Rule 144(f), and the Company is provided with a copy of
Holder s notice of proposed sale. 

4.4               Transfer
Procedure .  Subject to the provisions
of Section 4.3, Holder may transfer all or part of this Warrant or the
Shares issuable upon exercise of this Warrant (or the securities issuable,
directly or indirectly, upon conversion of the Shares, if any) by giving the
Company notice of the portion of the Warrant being transferred setting forth
the name, address and taxpayer identification number of the transferee and
surrendering this Warrant to the Company for reissuance to the transferee(s)
(and Holder if applicable).  Unless the
Company is filing financial information with the SEC pursuant to the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company shall have the right to refuse to transfer
any portion of this Warrant to any person who directly competes with the
Company. 

4.5               Notices .  All notices and other communications from the
Company to the Holder, or vice versa, shall be deemed delivered and effective
when given personally or mailed by first-class registered or certified mail,
postage prepaid, at such address as may have been furnished to the Company or
the Holder, as the case may be, in writing by the Company or such holder from
time to time. 

4.6               Waiver .  This Warrant and any term hereof may be
changed, waived, discharged or terminated only by an instrument in writing
signed by the party against which enforcement of such change, waiver, discharge
or termination is sought. 

4.7               Attorneys
Fees .  In the event of any dispute
between the parties concerning the terms and provisions of this Warrant, the
party prevailing in such dispute shall be entitled to collect from the other
party all costs incurred in such dispute, including reasonable attorneys  fees. 

4.8               Governing
Law .  This Warrant shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California,
without giving effect to its principles regarding conflicts of law. 

FOCUS
  ENHANCEMENTS, INC.  

By:  

/s/ Gary
  Williams  

Title:  

EVP of
  Finance   CFO  

4  

APPENDIX 1  

NOTICE OF
EXERCISE   

1.                The
undersigned hereby elects to purchase                   shares
of the Common Stock of                                         
pursuant to the terms of the attached Warrant, and tenders herewith payment of
the purchase price of such shares in full. 

1.                The
undersigned hereby elects to convert the attached Warrant into Shares/cash
[strike one] in the manner specified in the Warrant.  This conversion is exercised with respect to                                              of
the Shares covered by the Warrant. 

[Strike paragraph that does not apply.]  

2.                Please
issue a certificate or certificates representing said shares in the name of the
undersigned or in such other name as is specified below: 

(Name)  

(Address)  

3.                The
undersigned represents it is acquiring the shares solely for its own account
and not as a nominee for any other party and not with a view toward the resale
or distribution thereof except in compliance with applicable securities laws. 

(Signature)  

(Date)  

5  

</EX-4.15>

<EX-10.45>
 4
 a06-2037_1ex10d45.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.45   

EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT    

FOCUS      ENHANCEMENTS, INC.,   a Delaware corporation (hereinafter
referred to as  Employer ) and Thomas M. Hamilton (hereinafter referred to as  Employee ),
in consideration of the mutual promises made herein, agree as follows: 

ARTICLE 1. 
TERM OF EMPLOYMENT   

Specified Period   

Section 1.1.   

Employer hereby employs Employee, and Employee hereby accepts
employment with Employer, for the period beginning on October 18, 1996,
and terminating on October 17, 1997.  

Automatic Renewal   

Section 1.2.   

After October 17, 1997, this Agreement
shall be renewed automatically for succeeding terms of one (1) year (the  Succeeding
Term ), subject to earlier termination as provided in Section 6.1, unless
one party gives notice to the other at least thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration of any term of his or its intention not to renew.  

Employment Term  Defined   

Section 1.3.   

As used herein, the phrase  employment term 
refers to the entire period of employment of Employee by Employer hereunder,
whether for the periods provided above, or whether terminated earlier as
hereinafter provided or extended automatically or by mutual agreement between
Employer and Employee.  

ARTICLE 2. 
DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF EMPLOYEE   

General Duties   

Section 2.1.   

Employee shall serve as Vice President of
Research and Development of Employer. In such capacity, Employee shall do and
perform all services, acts or things in accordance with the policies set by
Employee s manager. Employee shall perform such services at Employer s
secondary place of business in Beaverton, Oregon or at such other locations as
mutually agreed upon by Employer and Employee.  

Devotion to Employer s Business   

Section 2.2.   

a)                Employee shall devote
his entire productive time, ability and attention to the business of Employer
during the term of this Agreement. 

b)               Employee shall not
engage in any other business duties or pursuits whatsoever, or directly or
indirectly render any services of a business, commercial or professional nature
to any other person or organization, whether for compensation or otherwise,
without the prior written consent of the Employer s Board of Directors.
However, the expenditure of reasonable amounts of time for educational,
charitable or professional activities shall not be deemed a breach of this
Agreement if those activities do not materially interfere with the services
required under this Agreement. 

c)                This Agreement shall
not be interpreted to prohibit Employee from making passive personal
investments or conducting private business affairs if those activities do not
materially interfere with the services required under this Agreement. 

Confidential Information; Tangible Property; 
Competitive Activities   

Section 2.3.   

(a)              Employee shall hold in
confidence and not use or disclose to any person or entity without the express
written authorization of Employer, either during the term of employment or at
any time thereafter, secret or confidential information of Employer (for
purposes of this Section 2.3,  Employer  shall include all subsidiaries of
Employer). Information and materials received in confidence from third parties
by Employee are included within the meaning of this section. If any
confidential information described below is sought by legal process, Employee
will promptly notify Employer and will cooperate with Employer in preserving
its confidentiality in connection with any legal proceeding. 

The parties hereto hereby stipulate that to the extent it is not known
publicly, the following information is important, material and has independent
economic value (actual or potential) from not being generally known to others
who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use and constitutes
confidential trade secrets that affect the successful conduct of Employer s
business and its goodwill ( Confidential Information ), and that any breach of
any term of this Section 2.3 is a material breach of this Agreement:  

i)                 The names, buying
habits and practices of Employer s customers or prospective customers; 

ii)                The names of Employer s
vendors and suppliers; 

iii)               The names of Employer s
vendors and suppliers; 

iv)              Costs of materials; 

v)               The prices Employer
obtains or has obtained or for which it sells or has sold its products or
services; 

vi)              Manufacturing and sales
costs; manufacturing processes; 

vii)             Compensation paid to
employees or other terms of employment; 

viii)            Employer s past and
projected sales volumes; 

ix)               Proposed new products; 

x)                Enhancements of
existing products; 

xi)               The existence of and
contents     of contracts and licenses; and 

xii)              Any additional
information deemed by Employer to be confidential by marking or stamping  Confidential 
or similar words on the cover of such information; by advising Employee orally
or in writing that certain information     is
confidential or by generally treating such information in such a manner that
Employee should reasonably believe it to be deemed confidential by Employer.
Employee s obligations under this Section 2.3(a) shall not apply to
information which Employee can demonstrate is or has become generally known
other than through Employee s act in violation of this Agreement. 

All models, samples, tools, machinery, equipment, notes, books,
correspondence, drawings and other written, graphical or electromagnetic
records relating to any of the products of Employer or relating to any of the
Confidential Information of Employer which Employee shall prepare, use,
construct, observe, possess or control shall be and shall remain the sole
property of Employer and shall be returned to Employer upon termination of
employment.  

b)               During his employment
hereunder, Employee shall not, directly or indirectly, either as an employee,
consultant,     agent, principal, partner, stockholder
(except in a publicly held company), corporate officer, director, or in any
other individual or representative capacity, engage or participate in any
business that produces, designs, provides, solicits orders for, sells,
distributes or markets products, goods, equipment, or services that are
directly or indirectly in competition in any manner whatsoever with Employer s
products or Employer s business. 

c)                During
his employment hereunder, Employee agrees that Employee will not undertake
planning     for or organization of any business
activity competitive with Employer   s business or combine or conspire
with other employees or representatives of Employer s business for the purpose
of organizing any competitive business activity. 

d)               During
his employment hereunder and for two (2) years thereafter, Employee agrees
that he will not, directly or indirectly, or by action in concert with others,
induce or influence (or seek to induce or influence) any person who is engaged
(as an employee, agent, independent contractor or otherwise) by Employer to
terminate his or her employment or engagement for the purpose of employing such
person in any enterprise in which Employee is a member or Management or has a
material interest. 

e)                Covenants
of this Section 2.3 shall be construed as separate covenants covering
their subject matter in each of the separate counties and states in the United
States in which Employer transacts its business. To the extent that any
covenant shall be judicially enforceable in any one or more of said counties or
states, said covenants shall not be affected with respect to each other county
and state; each covenant with respect to each county and state being construed
as severable and independent. 

f)                Employee
represents and warrants that Employee is free to enter into this Agreement and
to perform each of the terms and covenants of it, and that doing so will not
violate the terms and conditions of any agreement between Employee and third
party. 

Inventions and Original Works   

Section 2.4.   

(a)              Employee
agrees that he will promptly make full written disclosure to Employer, will
hold in trust for the sole right and benefit of Employer, and hereby assigns to
Employer, all of his right, title and interest in and to any and all (i) inventions
(and patent rights with respect thereto), (ii) original works of authorship
(including all copyrights with respect thereto), (iii) developments, and (iv) improvements
or trade secrets which Employer may solely or jointly conceive or develop or
reduce to practice, or cause to be conceived or developed or reduced to
practice, during the course of performing his duties under this Agreement and
which relate to the business of Employer. 

Employee acknowledges that all original works of authorship relating to
the business of Employer which are made by him (solely or jointly with others)
within the scope of his duties under this Agreement and which are protectable
by copyrights are  works made for hire,  as that term is defined in the United
States Copyright Act (17 U.S.C.A., Section 101) and that Employee is an
employee as defined under that Act. Employee further agrees from time to time
to execute written transfers to Employer of ownership of specific original
works of authorship (and all copyrights therein) made by Employee (solely or
jointly with others) which may, despite the preceding sentence, be deemed by a
court of law not to be  works made for hire  in such form as is acceptable to
Employer in its reasonable discretion.  

Maintenance of Records   

Section 2.5.   

Employee agrees to keep and maintain adequate and current written records
of all  

inventions, original works of authorship, trade secrets developed or
made by him (solely or jointly with others) during the term of this Agreement.
The records will be in the form of notes, sketches, drawings and other formats
that may be specified by Employer. The records will be available to and remain
the sole property of Employer at all times.  

Obtaining Letters Patent and Copyright
Registration   

Section 2.6.   

Employee agrees to assist Employer to obtain United States or foreign
letters patent and copyright registrations (as well as any transfers of
ownership thereof) covering inventions and original works of authorship
assigned hereunder to Employer. Such obligation shall continue beyond the
termination of this Agreement, but Employer shall compensate Employee at a
reasonable rate for time actually spent by Employee at Employer s request on
such assistance after such termination.  

If Employer is unable for any reason whatsoever, including Employee s
mental or physical incapacity, to secure Employee s signature to apply for or
to pursue any application for any United States or foreign letters, patent or
copyright registrations (or any document transferring ownership thereof)
covering inventions or original works of authorship assigned to Employer under
this Agreement, Employee hereby irrevocably designates and appoints Employer
and its duly authorized officers and agents as Employee s agent and
attorney-in-fact to act for and in his behalf instead to execute and file any
such applications and documents and to do all other lawfully permitted acts to
further the prosecution and issuance of letters, patent or copyright
registrations or transfers thereof with the same legal force and effect as if
executed by Employee. This appointment is coupled with an interest in and to
the inventions and works of authorship and shall survive Employee s death or
disability. Employee hereby waives and quitclaims to Employer any and all
claims of any nature whatsoever which Employee now or may hereafter have for
infringement of any patents or copyrights resulting from or relating to any
such application for letters, patent or copyright registrations assigned
hereunder to Employer.  

ARTICLE 3. 
OBLIGATIONS OF EMPLOYER   

General Description   

Section 3.1.   

Employer shall provide Employee with the
compensation, incentives and benefits specified elsewhere in this Agreement.  

Section 3.2.   

Employer shall provide Employee with a
private office, secretarial help, office and technical equipment, supplies and
other facilities, equipment and services suitable to Employee s position and
adequate for the performance of his duties.  

ARTICLE 4. 
COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEE   

Annual Salary   

Section 4.1.   

As compensation for his services hereunder,
Employee shall be paid a salary at the rate of One Hundred Ten Thousand Dollars
($110,000) per year from October 18, 1996, which salary may be increased
by Employer, from time to time, subject to applicable performance evaluations
and in accordance with Employer s employee s practice manual then in effect.
Salary shall be paid in equal installments not less frequently than once per
month.  

Bonus Compensation   

Section 4.2.   

In addition to his regular salary, Employee
shall be entitled to participate in Employer s Incentive Bonus Plan which, at Employer s
discretion, may be modified to encompass certain product development incentives
specifically related to Employee s job responsibilities and which modification
shall be based on mutual agreement between Employer and Employee.  

Tax Withholding   

Section 4.3.   

Employer shall have the right to deduct or
withhold from the compensation due to Employee hereunder any and all sums
required for federal income and Social Security taxes and all state or local
taxes now applicable or that may be enacted and become applicable in the
future, for which withholding is required by law.  

Stock Options   

Section 4.4.   

Employee shall be granted Incentive Stock
Options to purchase Eighty Thousand (80,000) shares of Employer s Common Stock
under Employer s 1992 Stock Option Plan, promptly after execution of this
Agreement. Said Options shall be exercisable at the fair-market value of such stock
on the date of Option grant, shall vest at the rate of one-third (1/3) per year
over three (3) years, and shall expire five (5) years from the date
of grant.  

ARTICLE 5. 
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS   

Annual Vacation   

Section 5.1.   

Each calendar year Employee shall be entitled to fifteen (15) days paid
vacation and an additional five (5) paid personal days to be utilized by
Employee for all non-vacation and non-holiday absences, including illness, from
his employment. Employee may be absent from his employment for vacation only at
such times as are approved by Employer s manager. Unused vacation and personal
days shall not be carried over into the next year. Employee s grant of vacation
and personal days for 1996 shall be pro-rated based upon the date on which he
commences employment with Employer.  

Benefits   

Section 5.2.   

Employee shall be eligible to participate in any and all benefit plans
provided by Employer, including health, disability and life insurance coverage
should Employee elect to participate in any such plans.  

Business Expenses   

Section 5.3.   

Employer shall reimburse Employee for all appropriate expenses for
travel and entertainment by Employee for legitimate business purposes, provided
that such expenditures are approved beforehand in writing by Employer, and
provided that Employee furnishes to Employer adequate records and documentary
evidence for the substantiation of each such expenditure, as required by the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

ARTICLE 6. 
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT   

Termination   

Section 6.1.   

Employee s employment hereunder may be terminated by Employee or
Employer as herein provided, without further obligation or liability, except as
expressly provided herein.  

Resignation, Retirement, Death or Disability   

Section 6.2.   

Employee s
employment hereunder shall be terminated at any time by Employee s resignation
or by Employee s retirement at or after attainment of age sixty (60) at  

Employee s
option ( Retirement ), death, or his inability to perform his duties under this
Agreement on a full-time basis, for a continuous period of ninety (90) days or
more, because of a physical or mental illness ( Disability ).  

Termination for Cause   

Section 6.3.   

Employee s
employment hereunder may be terminated for Cause.  Cause  shall mean personal
dishonesty, Incompetence (as defined herein), willful misconduct, conflict of
interest or breach of fiduciary duty involving material personal or family
profit, willfully engaging in conduct with the purpose and effect of materially
injuring Employer, monetarily or otherwise, or the willful and continued
failure by the Employee to substantially perform his duties hereunder.  Incompetence 
shall mean gross negligence by Employee in the execution of his duties
contemplated by or assigned pursuant to this Agreement. For purposes of this
Paragraph, no act, or failure to act, on the Employee s part shall be
considered  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by him not in good
faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best
interest of the Employer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employee shall not
be terminated for Cause without (i) reasonable notice to the Employee
setting forth the reasons for the Employer s intention to terminate for Cause; (ii) an
opportunity for the Employee, together with his counsel, to be heard before the
Board; and (iii) delivery to the Employee of a Notice of Termination as
defined in Section 6.7 hereof from the Board finding that in the good
faith opinion of such Board, the Employee was guilty of conduct set forth
above, and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.  

Termination without Cause   

Section 6.4.   

Employee s
employment hereunder may be terminated without Cause upon thirty (30) days 
notice for any reason, subject to the payment of any amounts required by Section 7.3.
The parties hereto agree that, without the express written consent of Employee,
the following actions by Employer shall, at Employee s option, constitute
termination without Cause:  

(a) the
relocation of Employee s principal place of employment to a location that is
more than thirty (30) miles from the principal place of employment immediately
prior to the date of effectiveness of the merger of FOCUS Acquisition Corp.
with and into TView, Inc.  

(b) any material reduction by Employer
of the base salary set forth in Section 4.1 unless reductions comparable
in amount and duration are concurrently made for all other employees of
Employer with comparable responsibilities, comparable organizational level and
comparable title.  

Expiration   

Section 6.5.   

Employee s employment hereunder shall be
terminated upon expiration of the Term of Employment as provided in Sections
1.1 and 1.2.  

Notice of Termination   

Section 6.6.   

Any termination of the Employee s employment
by the Employer or by the Employee (other than termination by reason of
resignation, retirement or death) shall be communicated by written Notice of
Termination to the other party hereto. For purposes of this Agreement, a  Notice
of Termination  shall mean a notice which shall include the specific
termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, and shall set forth in
reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for
termination of the Employee s employment under the provision so indicated.  

Date of Termination   

Section 6.7.   

The  Date of Termination  shall be:  

a)                if
the Employee s employment is terminated by his death, the date of his death; 

b)               if
the Employee s employment is terminated by reason of Employee s disability,
thirty (30) days after Notice of Termination is given (provided that the
Employee shall not have returned to the performance of his duties on a
full-time basis during such thirty (30) day period); 

c)                if
the Employee s employment is terminated for Cause, the date the Notice of
Termination is given or after if so specified in such Notice of Termination;
and 

d)               if
the Employee s employment is terminated for any other reason, the date on which
a Notice of Termination is given; 

provided that if within thirty (30) days after any Notice of
Termination is given, the party receiving such Notice of Termination notifies
the other party that a dispute exists concerning the termination, the Date of
Termination shall be the date on which the dispute is finally determined either
by arbitration award or by a final judgment, order or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction (the time for appeal therefrom having expired and no
appeal having been perfected).  

ARTICLE 7  . 
  PAYMENTS TO EMPLOYEE UPON TERMINATION   

Death, Disability or Retirement   

Section 7.1.   

In the event of Employee s Retirement, Death
or Disability, all benefits generally available to Employer s employees as of
the date of such an event shall be payable to Employee or Employee s estate
without reduction, in accordance with the terms of any plan, contract,
understanding or arrangement forming the basis for such payment. Employee shall
be entitled to such other payments as might arise from any other plan,
contract, understanding or arrangement between Employee and Employer at the
time of any such event.  

Termination for Cause or Resignation   

Section 7.2  . 

In the event Employee is terminated by Employer
for Cause or Employee resigns, neither Employer nor an affiliate     shall have any further obligation to Employee under this
Agreement or otherwise, except to the extent provided in any other plan,
contract, understanding or arrangement, or as may be expressly required by law.  

Termination without Cause   

Section 7.3.   

Subject to other provisions in this Article 7
to the contrary, upon the occurrence of a Termination without Cause, Employer
shall:  

a)                Pay
to Employee, as severance pay or liquidated damages, or both, a lump sum
payment ( Severance Payment ) equal to the annual salary described in Section 4.1
which is then in effect for Employee; 

b)               To
the extent permissible under applicable law, including the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, anti-discrimination standards which must be met to
retain favorable tax status of any employee benefit plan, contract or
arrangement, continue to provide to Employee during the unexpired term of this
Agreement, without renewal, those benefits to which employee is entitled to
immediately prior to the termination; and 

c)                Cause
any stock options issued to Employee which have not lapsed and which are not
otherwise exercisable to be accelerated so as to be immediately exercisable by
Employee. 

ARTICLE 8. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS   

Notices   

Section 8.1.   

Any notices to be given hereunder by either
party to the other shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly
given on the date of delivery if personally delivered, or delivered
electronically with electronic verification to the persons identified below, or
three (3) days after mailing if mailed by registered or certified mail,
postage prepaid with return receipt requested, addressed as follows:  

Employee :   Thomas M. Hamilton 
[Address Omitted] 

Employer :   FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS, INC. 
142 North Road 
Sudbury, Massachusetts 01776 
Attn: Thomas L. Massie, Chairman 

Each party may change that address by written
notice in accordance with this section.  

Arbitration   

Section 8.2.   

a)                Any
controversy between Employer and Employee involving the construction or
application of any of the terms, provisions or conditions of this Agreement or
the breach thereof or otherwise arising out of this Agreement shall be settled
by arbitration, and judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may
be entered in any court having jurisdiction. Arbitration shall comply with and
be governed by the provisions of the American Arbitration Association,
Commercial Division. 

b)               Employer
and Employee shall each appoint one person to hear and determine the dispute.
If the two persons so appointed are unable to agree, then those persons shall
select a third, impartial arbitrator whose decision shall be final and
conclusive upon both parties. 

c)                The
cost of arbitration shall be borne by the losing party or in such proportions
as the arbitrators decide. 

d)               Such
arbitration shall take such place in Portland, Oregon. 

Attorneys  Fees and Costs   

Section 8.3.   

If any action at law or in equity is
necessary to enforce or interpret the terms of this Agreement, the prevailing
party shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys  fees, costs and necessary
disbursements in addition to any other relief to which that party may be
entitled. This provision shall be construed as applicable to the entire
contract.  

Entire Agreement   

Section 8.4.   

This Agreement supersedes any and all other
agreements, either oral or in writing, between the parties hereto with respect
to the subject matter contained herein and contains all of the covenants and
agreements between the parties with respect to that subject matter. Each party
to this Agreement acknowledges that no representations, inducements, promises
or agreements, orally or otherwise, have been made by any party, or anyone
acting on behalf of any party, which are not embodied herein, and that no other
agreement, statement or promise not contained in this Agreement shall be valid
or binding on either party.  

Modifications   

Section 8.5.   

Any modification of this Agreement will be
effective only if it is in writing and signed by the Employee and properly
authorized by Employer s Board of Directors and signed by two (2) officers
of Employer.  

Effect of Waiver   

Section 8.6.   

The failure of either party to insist on
strict compliance with any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this
Agreement by the other party shall not be deemed a waiver of that term,
covenant or condition, nor shall any waiver or relinquishment of any right or
power at any one time or times be deemed a waiver or relinquishment of that
right or power for all or any other times.  

Partial Invalidity   

Section 8.7.   

If any provision in this Agreement is held by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the
remaining provisions shall nevertheless continue in full force without being
impaired or invalidated in any way.  

Executed on October 18, 1996, at
Sudbury, Massachusetts.  

Employer    

FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS INC.   

By:  

/s/ Thomas L. Massie  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

By:  

/s/ John Piccione  

John A. Piccione  

Secretary  

Employee    

/s/ Thomas Hamilton  

Thomas M. Hamilton  

</EX-10.45>

<EX-10.46>
 5
 a06-2037_1ex10d46.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.46   

AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT 
BY AND BETWEEN 
FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS, INC., 
AND 
THOMAS M. HAMILTON   

This Amendment
(this  Amendment ) dated as of February 1, 1999, (the  Amendment Effective
Date ) will modify certain terms and conditions of the below-described
Employment Agreement (the  Original Agreement   ) between Focus
Enhancements, Inc., ( Employer ) and Thomas M. Hamilton ( Employee   ).
Unless specifically noted herein, all other terms of the Original Agreement
shall remain in full force and effect, including any terms that survive
termination of the Original Agreement.  

WHEREAS,
Employer and Employee have heretofore entered into the Original Agreement, more
particularly described as Employment Contract effective as of October 18,
1996;  

WHEREAS, Employer and Employee desire, upon
terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, to amend the
Original Agreement in certain respects;  

NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein and other
valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree
as follows:  

ARTICLE I    

AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT    

Section 1.1                   Defined
Terms   

Except as
otherwise specified herein, the terms used in this Amendment and defined in the
Original Agreement as amended hereby (as so amended, the  Amended Agreement )
shall have the meanings provided in the Original Agreement.  

Section 1.2                   Amendment   

Effective upon
the execution of this Amendment, the provisions of the Original Agreement
referred to below are hereby amended as follows:  

1.                Section 1.1
of the Original Agreement is restated in its entirety to read as follows: 

Employer hereby employs Employee, and
Employee hereby accepts employment with Employer for the period beginning on October 18,
1998, and terminating on December 31, 1999.   

2.                Section 1.2
of the Original Agreement is restated in its entirety to read as follows: 

After December 31, 1999, this Agreement
shall be renewed automatically for succeeding terms of one (1) year (the
Succeeding Term ), subject to earlier termination as provided in Section 6.1,
unless one party gives notice to the other at least thirty (30) days prior to
the expiration of any term of its intention not to renew. Employer agrees that
in the event of non-renewal by Employer pursuant to this Section 1.2,
Employer shall pay to Employee severance pay in an amount equaling two months
base compensation.   

3.                The first sentence of
Section 2.1 of the Original Agreement is restated in its entirety to read
as follows: 

Employee shall serve as Vice President of
Research   Development.   

SECTION 2: Additional Provisions   

Section 2.1                   No
Other Modifications.   

Except as expressly modified herein, all of
the terms and conditions of the Original Agreement will remain in full force
and effect. The amendments set forth above (a) do not constitute a waiver
or modification of any term, condition, covenant, agreement, representation or
warranty of or set forth in the Original Agreement or a waiver of a failure to
perform any obligation under the Original Agreement, and (b) shall not
prejudice any rights or remedies which Employer or Employee may now or
hereafter have under or in connection with the Original Agreement, as modified
hereby. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Original
Agreement and the provisions of this Amendment, the provisions of this
Amendment shall control.  

Section 2.2                   Entire
Agreement.   

The Original Agreement as amended by this
Amendment constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to
the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous
representations, understandings or agreements, whether oral or written,
relating to the subject matter hereof. All prior or contemporaneous
representations, understandings or agreements, whether oral or written, that
are not expressly set forth within the four corners of the Original Agreement
as amended by this Amendment are hereby deemed waived, superseded and
abandoned.  

Section 2.3                   Amendments.   

No amendment or modification of this
Amendment will be binding on any of the parties to this Amendment unless such
amendment or modification is contained in a written document which expresses an
intention to amend this Amendment and is executed by each of the parties.  

Section 2.4                   Counterparts.   

This Amendment may be executed in several
counterparts all of which taken together shall constitute one single agreement
between the parties.  

2  

Section 2.5                   Terms
Confidential.   

The terms and conditions of this Amendment
are confidential and shall be treated as such by Employer and Employee except
to the extent that either party must disclose for reasonable business purposes
or must otherwise disclose to its attorneys, accountants, lenders, regulators
or others with a need or right to know.  

Section 2.6                   Successors
and Assigns.   

This Amendment is a continuing obligation and
binds, and the benefits hereof shall inure to Employer and Employee and their
respective successors and assigns. Neither this Amendment nor any rights
hereunder may be assigned by Employee without the prior written consent of the
Employer.  

Section 2.7                   Headings.   

Section headings in this Amendment are
included herein for convenience or reference only and shall not constitute a
part of this Amendment for any other purpose  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused
the signatures of their duly authorized officers to be hereunto affixed.  

EMPLOYER  

EMPLOYEE  

FOCUS ENHANCMENTS, INC  

/s/ Christopher Ricci  

By  

/s/ Thomas Hamilton  

By: Christopher P. Ricci  

Name: Thomas M. Hamilton  

Title: Sr. Vice President  

</EX-10.46>

<EX-10.47>
 6
 a06-2037_1ex10d47.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.47   

EXECUTIVE
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   

This   EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   (   Agreement   ) is made effective as of the
28th day of May 2004 by and between   Focus
Enhancements Inc  , a Delaware corporation, with its principal offices
in Campbell, California (hereinafter    Focus   
or the    Company   ), and Gary
Williams an individual and a resident of California (   Executive   ).  

RECITALS    

A.               Executive
is currently employed by Focus and either (i) does not have an employment
agreement with the Company, or (ii) is willing to terminate and supercede
such employment agreement to enter into this Agreement in consideration of the
additional rights and benefits set forth herein. 

B.               Focus
desires to enter into this Agreement on and pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement to secure the additional covenants of Executive as set forth herein
and to provide the additional rights and benefits to Executive in consideration
of Executive s obligations hereunder. 

AGREEMENT    

NOW,
THEREFORE  , the parties, in consideration of the foregoing
Recitals, each of which is incorporated by this reference as an essential term,
the covenants, conditions and other terms hereof, and other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged,
agree as follows: 

1.                 Employment .
Focus shall employ Executive and Executive accepts full time employment as Vice
President of Finance and CFO of Focus for the term of this Agreement and on the
terms and conditions set forth herein. 

2.                 Duties and
Responsibilities . During the term of this Agreement, Executive shall devote
substantially all of his time, energy and skills to performing the duties and
responsibilities of Vice President of Finance and CFO and such other duties as
the Chief Executive Officer or Board of Directors may require from time to
time. Executive shall work faithfully and to the best of his ability and
efforts promoting the business interests of Focus. Executive will discharge his
duties at all times in accordance with any and all policies of Focus and will
report to, and be subject to the direction of, the Chief Executive Officer or
President of Focus, except that it is understood Executive shall also work
independently with the Board of Directors as required by the Board. Executive
shall be considered a key employee of the Company. 

3.                 Compensation .
Executive s base annual salary upon signing this Agreement shall be
$185,000. Executive s performance shall be reviewed annually thereafter.
Adjustments in salary may be made from time to time in the sole discretion of
the Board of Directors. Salary shall be paid in arrears in accordance with
Company s standard pay policy. 

4.                 Bonus Compensation .
Executive shall be eligible to earn bonus compensation in each fiscal year
ending December 31 during the term. Subject to the achievement of the
goals identified in    Exhibit A   
as determined by Company in its reasonable discretion, the bonus 

A-1  

compensation
shall be calculated and paid in accordance with    Exhibit A   .
Executive s target bonus compensation shall be 30% of Executive s annual base
salary, in proportion of Executive s period of employment during the applicable
year (measured on a 365 day/year basis).    Exhibit A   
shall be revised by the Company for each such fiscal year during the term of
this Agreement;  provided ,  however , once the Board of Directors
establishes a bonus compensation plan with respect to Executive for any fiscal
year, no revision shall thereafter occur without the written consent of the
Executive. All bonus payments shall be verified against and payable one week
following publication of the Company s quarterly earnings release or Form 10-K
(Q). The parties expressly contemplate that    Exhibit A   
will change from year to year. Each new    Exhibit A   
shall be attached hereto. To be eligible for payment, Executive must be
employed by Focus on the date the bonus payment is due;  provided ,  however ,
if Executive is not employed on the date the bonus is due because of (i) Executive s
voluntary termination, or (ii) Executive s involuntary termination by
Focus for Cause, then the bonus will be paid but only in proportion to
Executive s period of employment during the applicable year in relation to a
365 day year. In addition, for purposes of this provision, termination of
employment due to Executive s death shall be deemed an involuntary termination
without Cause.  

5.                 Executive Benefits . 

(a)               Vacation .
Executive shall receive a minimum of 20 business days of paid vacation and
thereafter consistent with the Company s vacation policy, during each year of
this Agreement (pro rata). Executive may be absent from his employment for
vacation only at such times the Executive notifies the Employer s President and
CEO of the planned vacation at least 10 (ten) days in advance. Unused vacation
will carry over from one year to the next but the maximum amount of vacation,
which can accrue (unused) at any one time, shall not exceed 20 business days.
Unused vacation will not be paid in the form of cash, except upon termination
of employment. 

(b)               Benefits .
Executive shall be eligible to participate in any and all benefit plans
generally provided by the Company, on the same basis as same are made available
to other executives, including health, disability and life insurance coverage
should Executive elect to participate in any such plans. 

6.                 Expenses .
Focus shall reimburse Executive for all reasonable business expenses incurred
by Executive pursuant to Company policies (as adopted from time to time);
provided that Executive complies with any established policy and procedure for
the reimbursement of such expenses, including, but not limited to, submitting
an appropriate expense report. 

7.                 Term and
Termination . 

(a)               Specified
Period . The Initial Term of this Agreement shall be one year starting on
the Commencement Date. ( Initial Term ) 

(b)               Succeeding
Term . This Agreement shall automatically renew without lapse, after the
Initial Term for additional one-year periods (each a  Succeeding Term ), unless
(i) written notice of non renewal is given by Focus to Executive at least
ninety (90) days before such applicable anniversary or (ii) unless earlier
(a) terminated upon the written mutual agreement of the Executive and
Focus, or (b) pursuant to the events and/or 

A-2  

occurrences set
forth below. Collectively, the Initial Term and Succeeding Term are referred to
as the  Term.  This Agreement and Executive s employment may be terminated:  

(i)               By
Executive for  Good Reason  (as defined below) upon thirty (30) days prior
written notice to Focus; 

(ii)              By
Executive at any time without Good Reason upon fourteen (14) days advance
written notice; 

(iii)             By
Focus for  Cause  (as defined below) immediately upon written notice to
Executive; 

(iv)             By
Focus in the event of Executive s  Disability  (as defined below); 

(v)              Automatically
upon Executive s death; 

(vi)             By
Focus at any time, with or without notice, as specified by Focus, for any
reason other than termination for Cause or Disability ( without Cause ). 

8.                 Consequences of
Termination . 

(a)               Termination
for Cause or Resignation Without Good Reason . If (i) Executive s
employment is terminated by Focus for  Cause  or (ii) Executive resigns
without Good Reason, then (x) Focus shall pay the Executive his base salary, as
described in Section 3 above, to the date of termination, and commissions
earned through the date of termination as defined by the applicable commission
plan then in effect and (y) Executive shall not be entitled to any other
salary, bonus compensation or fringe benefits after the date of termination,
except the right to receive benefits which have become vested under any benefit
plan or to which Executive is entitled as a matter of law. 

(b)               Resignation
for Good Reason or Termination Without Cause . If Executive (i) resigns
his employment for Good Reason or (ii) is terminated by Company without
Cause, and (iii) executes the Company s standard release of claims
agreement, then, immediately following the date of Executive s termination of
employment and the exhaustion of any revocation period contained in said
release, Company will continue payment of Executive s Salary (at the same rate
existing prior to the termination) for a period of twelve (12) months ( the
Severance Period ) pursuant to Focus  normal payroll practices. In addition, (i) Focus
shall either pay directly or reimburse Executive for premiums incurred in
connection with continuation of coverage under the Company s health, dental,
disability and life insurance plans to which Executive is entitled in
accordance with applicable law for the Severance Period and (ii) Focus
shall pay Executive all bonus compensation otherwise due for the applicable
fiscal year of termination, prorated to the date of termination of employment;  provided ,
 however , such bonus compensation shall be payable only in accordance
with and at the times of the regularly scheduled bonus compensation payment
that Executive would have otherwise been subject to prior to termination and (iii) any
and all unvested stock options and/or restricted stock in Executive s name
shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable, provided that, 

A-3  

regardless of the
terms of any option or stock purchase agreement between the Company and
Executive, absent a separate signed written agreement between Company and
Executive which specifically references this provision of this Agreement, no
exercise shall occur more than six months after such termination and in no
event after the expiration of such option. In the event of Executive s
subsequent death after his termination by Focus without Cause or by Executive
or for Good Reason, Focus shall continue to pay the same payments and benefits
as to which Executive was entitled at the date of his death to Executive s
surviving spouse, or if Executive is unmarried at the time, then to Executive s
estate.  

(c)               Termination
in the Event of Death or Disability . If Executive s employment terminates
due to Executive s death or if Focus terminates Executive s employment due to
Executive s Disability, then Focus will pay Executive s salary to Executive or
his legal representative for the remainder of the month in which his employment
is so terminated. In the circumstance described in the immediately preceding
sentence, Executive, his estate or his qualified representative(s) will be
entitled to receive all applicable Disability and other benefits, such as
continued health or Disability coverage or life insurance proceeds, provided in
accordance with the terms and conditions of any health, life, disability, or
other Company benefit plans or in accordance with applicable law. In addition,
bonus compensation shall be calculated and paid in the manner described in Section 8(b) above. 

(d)               Suspension
of Payment . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if Executive
is in violation of any provision of Section 9, 10, 11 or 12 below, Focus
shall have no obligation to make payment(s) under Section 8(b) of
this Agreement if Focus has determined in good faith that such a violation(s)
has occurred or is occurring. If it is later established through arbitration or
other judicial proceeding that no such violation occurred, Focus shall agree to
pay to Executive any such amount withheld from or not paid during such period. 

(e)               No
Mitigation . Executive will be under no obligation to mitigate damages by
seeking other employment, and there will be no offset against the amounts due
Executive under this Agreement, except as specifically provided in Section 8(d) above
or for any other claims which Focus may have against Executive. 

(f)                Change
of Control . If (A) there is a  Change of Control  of Focus, as defined
in this Agreement, and (B) (i) Executive is terminated by Focus for
any reason other than for  Cause,  or (ii) Executive terminates his
employment for  Good Reason,  in each case within twelve (12) months of the
date of such Change of Control transaction, then Executive shall, after the
execution of the Company s standard release of claims agreement and the
exhaustion of any revocation period contained in such release, be entitled to a
continuation of salary, bonus compensation and full benefits for twelve (12)
full months following the effective date of such termination ( the Change of
Control Severance Period ). Upon such termination, notwithstanding any
provision of any other agreement between Company and Executive, any and all
unvested Company stock or options in Executive s name shall immediately vest in
full and be exercisable, provided that, regardless of the terms of any option
or stock purchase agreement between the Company and Executive, absent a
separate signed written agreement between Company and Executive which
specifically references this provision of this Agreement, no exercise 

A-4  

shall occur more
than six months after such termination and in no event after the expiration of
such option. All salary, bonus, other Company compensation payments and other
benefits shall be made or provided, as applicable, in accordance with the
existing payment and benefit schedules or policies of Focus at the time of such
termination. For purposes of this Change of Control provision, during the
Change of Control Severance Period, Executive shall not be obligated to perform
any duties but he shall remain bound by all of his other common law and
contractual obligations hereunder.  

(g)               Survival
of Provisions . The obligations of confidentiality and assignment of
inventions under Section 9 and the obligations of Confidential Information
and assignment of inventions, non-solicitation and non-disparagement under
Sections 9, 10, 11 and/or 12 hereof shall survive the termination of this
Agreement for any reason. 

9.                 Confidential
Information and Assignment of Inventions . 

(a)              Executive
will not disclose to a third party or use for his personal benefit confidential
information of Focus.    Confidential Information   
means any information used or useful in Focus  business that is not generally
known outside of Focus and that is proprietary to Focus relating to any aspect
of Focus  existing or reasonably foreseeable business which is disclosed to
Executive or conceived, discovered or developed by Executive. Confidential
Information includes, but is not limited to: product designs including drawings
and sketches, manufacturing materials, plant layouts, tooling, sales marketing
plans or proposals, customer information, customer lists, raw material sources,
manufacturing processes, price, financial, accounting and cost information,
clinical data, administrative techniques and documents and information
designated by Focus as  Confidential.  Executive shall also comply with the
terms of any Confidentiality Agreement by which Focus is bound to a third party
as well as the Company s Confidential Information and Invention Assignment
Agreement. 

(b)              Executive
grants to Focus the exclusive ownership of all reports, drawings, blueprints,
data writings, and technical information made by Executive alone or with others
during the term of his employment, whether or not made or prepared in the
course of his employment, that relate to apparatus, compositions of matter or
methods pertaining to Focus business. Executive acknowledges that all such
reports, drawings, blueprints, data writings and technical information are the
property of Focus. 

(c)              Executive
will promptly disclose to Focus in writing all inventions and proprietary
information which he alone or with others conceives, generates, or reduces to
practice, during or after working hours while an employee of Focus and for six (6) months
following Executive s termination of employment with respect to work performed
by Executive for Focus. All such inventions and proprietary information shall
be the exclusive property of Focus and are assigned to Focus. This Agreement
shall not apply to any invention for which no equipment, supplies, facility, or
trade secret information of Focus was used, and which was developed entirely on
Executive s time, and (1) which does not relate (a) directly to the
business of Focus, or (b) to Focus  actual or demonstrably anticipated
research or development, or (2) which does not result from any work
performed by Executive for Focus. 

A-5  

(d)              At
Focus  expense, Executive shall give Focus all assistance it reasonably
requires to perfect, protect, and use its rights to inventions and proprietary
information. In particular, but without limitation, Executive will sign all
documents, do all things, and supply all information that Focus may deem necessary
or desirable to (1) transfer or record the transfer of Executive s entire
right, title and interest in inventions and proprietary information; and (2) enable
Focus to obtain patent, copyright, or trademark protection for inventions
anywhere in the world. Executive understands that the provisions of this Section 9
do not apply to any invention which qualifies fully under the provisions of
California Labor Code Section 2870 (attached hereto as    Exhibit B   ). 

10.               Non-Competition .
During the Term, Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, either as an
Executive, consultant, agent, principal, partner, stockholder (except in a
publicly held company), corporate officer, director, or in any other individual
or representative capacity, engage or participate in any business that is in
competition in any manner whatsoever with the then current or anticipated
business of Focus. 

11.               Non-Solicitation .
In addition to any obligations Executive may have under separate written
agreement with Company attached hereto as   Exhibit C  ,
during the Term of his employment with Focus and any Severance Period or Change
of Control Severance Period, and for a period of one (1) year after
termination of such employment or end of any Severance Period or Change of
Control Severance Period, whichever is later, Executive will not, directly or
indirectly, solicit, hire or otherwise engage, on his own behalf or on behalf
of another person or entity, the services of any person who is an employee of
Focus. 

12.               Non-Disparagement .
During and after the termination or expiration of this Agreement, Executive
shall not make any negative or disparaging remarks or comments (either oral or
written) about Focus, its affiliated or related companies, or any other
foregoing entity s directors, officers, employees, agents, services or
products, and Focus agrees not to make any negative or disparaging remarks or
comments (either oral or written) about Executive. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, each of the parties is entitled accurately to describe their past relationship
to potential employers, partners or affiliates of Executive or potential
partners or affiliates of Focus. 

13.               Arbitration . 

(a) Any controversy between Focus and Executive
involving the construction or application of any of the terms, provisions or
conditions of this Agreement or the breach thereof shall be settled by final and binding arbitration by a single
arbitrator to be held in Santa Clara, California, in accordance with the
National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American
Arbitration Association (AAA Rules) then in effect. The arbitrator selected
shall have the authority to grant Executive or the Company or both all remedies
otherwise available by law, including injunctions.  

(b)               Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the AAA Rules,
the arbitration shall provide (i) for written discovery and depositions
adequate to give the Parties access to documents and witnesses that are
essential to the dispute and (ii) for a written decision by the arbitrator
that includes the essential findings and conclusions upon which the decision is
based. Consistent with applicable law, Executive and the Company  

A-6  

shall each bear his or its own costs and
attorneys  fees incurred in conducting the arbitration and, except in such
disputes where Executive asserts a claim otherwise under a state or federal
statute prohibiting discrimination in employment ( a Statutory Discrimination
Claim ), or where otherwise required by law, shall split equally the fees and
administrative costs charged by the arbitrator and AAA. In disputes where
Executive asserts a Statutory Discrimination Claim against the Company, or
where otherwise required by law, Executive shall be required to pay only the
AAA filing fee to the extent such filing fee does not exceed the fee to file a
complaint in state or federal court. The Company shall pay the balance of the
arbitrator s fees and administrative costs.  

(c)              The decision of the arbitrators will be final,
conclusive and binding on the Parties to the arbitration. The prevailing party
in the arbitration, as determined by the arbitrator, shall be entitled to
recover his or its reasonable attorneys  fees and costs, including the costs or
fees charged by the arbitrator and AAA. In disputes where Executive asserts a
Statutory Discrimination Claim, reasonable attorneys  fees shall be awarded by
the arbitrator based on the same standard as such fees would be awarded if the
Statutory Discrimination Claim had been asserted in state or federal court.
Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator s decision in any court having
jurisdiction. 

14.               Certain Definitions .
For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms will have the meaning set
forth below: 

(a)               Cause .
   Cause    means that Executive has: (i) committed
an act of dishonesty, fraud or breach of trust involving the business of Focus;
(ii) willfully failed to follow any material policy or material
instructions of Focus, his or her supervisor or its CEO provided such are lawful
and not a violation of public policy; (iii) been indicted for or convicted
of any felony; (iv) engaged in any gross misconduct, such as sexual
harassment, material violations of applicable law or defalcations in the
performance of or in connection with the Executive s duties or employment by
Focus; or (v) otherwise breached material obligations under this
Agreement. 

(b)               Change
in Control .    Change in Control    means a change
in control of Focus of a nature that would be required to be reported on form 8-K
under SEC regulations pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the    Exchange Act   
 provided , that, without limiting the foregoing, a  Change in Control 
shall be deemed to have occurred at such times as (i) any person is or becomes
a  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act),
directly or indirectly, of fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting
power of Focus  outstanding securities ordinarily possessing the right to vote
for the election of directors; (ii) there ceases to be a majority of the
Board of Directors comprised of the individuals described in the next sentence,
or (iii) Focus disposes of all or substantially all of its assets. For
purpose of this paragraph,    Board of Directors   
shall mean individuals who on the date hereof constituted the Board of
Directors and any new directors who subsequently are elected or nominated for
election by majority of the directors who held such office immediately prior to
Change in Control. The foregoing shall not apply to an internal reorganization
of the Company. 

A-7  

(c)               Disability .
   Disability    means that Executive
satisfies the conditions to be eligible for benefits under the disability plan
maintained by Focus, whether or not Executive is then covered by such plan. 

(d)               Good
Reason .    Good Reason    means Focus, without
Executive s consent: (i) during the Term of his employment at Focus,
requires Executive to relocate his principal residence more then fifty (50)
miles from such officer s principal residence on the Commencement Date of this
Agreement; or (ii) a substantial change in Executive s duties and
responsibilities; or (iii) at any time reduces Executive s base
compensation or material reduction in benefits in a manner which does not
proportionally apply to other senior executives; or (iv) at any time
otherwise materially breaches its obligations under this Agreement;  provided ,
 however , that upon notification of a  Good Reason  event, Focus shall have
thirty (30) days from its receipt of notice of such Good Reason to remedy and
cure such event, in which case of remedy or cure, the Good Reason shall be
deemed to be null and void. 

15.               Miscellaneous . 

(a)               Entire
Agreement . This Agreement, and any other agreement specifically referenced
herein, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to
its subject matter, and supersedes, merges and voids all previous agreements,
representations and warranties, written or oral, between the parties with
respect to such subject matter. All other prior employment agreement(s) between
Executive and Focus are hereby terminated and of no further force or effect.
Except as otherwise provided herein to Executive s benefit, this Agreement
shall not amend, modify, supersede or otherwise affect the terms of any stock
or option agreement(s), stock sale or sale restriction agreement(s) and any
confidentiality, non-disclosure, non-competition and inventions agreement(s) to
which Executive is a party with Focus. 

(b)               No
Oral Modifications . This Agreement may only be modified in a writing signed
by the Executive and an officer of Focus expressly authorized by Focus to
modify this Agreement. 

(c)               Personal
Agreement . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of
Focus. This Agreement shall be binding upon Executive, his heirs and personal
and legal representative. This Agreement may not be assigned by Executive. 

(d)               No
Waiver . No failure by either party to exercise, and no delay in exercising,
any right or remedy under this Agreement will operate as a waiver; nor will any
single or partial exercise of any right or remedy preclude any other or further
exercise of any right or remedy. The covenants and agreements set forth herein
may be waived only by a written instrument executed by the party waiving
compliance. Any such waiver shall only be effective in the specific instance
and for the specific purpose for which it was given and shall not be deemed a
waiver of any other provision hereof or of the same breach or default upon any
recurrence thereof. 

(e)               Specific
Performance . The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the
event that any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than the payment of 

A-8  

money for the
Executive s  Term of employment, were not performed in accordance with their
specific terms or are otherwise breached or threatened to be breached. In the
event of any breach or threatened breach, Executive acknowledges that damages
will be insufficient remedy to Focus in the event of a violation of Section 9,
10, 11 and/or 12 of this Agreement, and in the event of such breach or
threatened breach of this Agreement, Focus shall be entitled to seek injunctive
relief, without the necessity of posting bond, through a court of competent
jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of such Sections in addition to any
other rights or remedies available to Focus.  

(f)                Successors
and Assigns . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding
upon the Company, its successors and assigns and any such successor or assignee
shall be deemed substituted for the Company under the terms of this Agreement
for all purposes. As used herein,  successor  and  assignee  shall include any
person, firm, corporation or other business entity which at any time, whether
by purchase, merger or otherwise, directly or indirectly acquires the Company
or to which the Company assigns the Agreement by operation of law or otherwise. 

(g)               Survival .
Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Agreement, upon termination or
expiration of this Agreement for any reason, the covenants and obligations set
forth in Sections 6, 8 (including the applicability thereto of
Sections 3 and 4), 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 shall survive any
termination of this Agreement or Executive s employment hereunder until such
covenants and agreements are fully satisfied and require no further performance
or forbearance, or the rights of a party expire on the specific date by the
terms hereof. 

(h)               Adjustment
of Restrictions . If any provision of Section 9, 10, 11 and/or 12 of
this Agreement is found by a court or arbitrator to be unenforceable under
applicable law because one or more provisions are over broad or otherwise not
enforceable in the form as set forth herein, then the court or arbitrator shall
have the power to revise the terms of this Agreement to the extent necessary to
make the provisions hereof enforceable. 

(i)                Governing
Law . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
California without giving effect to the conflicts of law provisions of any
jurisdiction which would cause this Agreement to be governed by the laws of any
jurisdiction other than those of the State of California. 

(j)                Counterparts
and Facsimile Signatures . This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. The counterparts of this
Agreement and any schedules and exhibits hereto, if any, may be executed and
delivered by facsimile signature by any of the parties to any other party and
the receiving party may rely on the receipt of such document so executed and
delivered by facsimile as if the original had been received. 

(k)               Construction .
The parties have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this
Agreement. In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation
arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by both
parties, and no 

A-9  

presumption or
burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the
authorship of any of the provisions of this Agreement.  

[SIGNATURE
PAGE FOLLOWS]   

A-10  

IN WITNESS OF THIS AGREEMENT  ,
the parties have signed below. 

A-11  

</EX-10.47>

<EX-10.48>
 7
 a06-2037_1ex10d48.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.48   

EXECUTIVE
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   

This   EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   (   Agreement   ) is made effective as of the
24th day of February 2005 by and between   Focus
Enhancements Inc  , a Delaware corporation, with its principal offices
in Campbell, California (hereinafter    Focus   
or the    Company   ), and Michael
Conway an individual and a resident of California (   Executive   ).  

RECITALS    

A.             Executive
is currently employed by Focus and either (i) does not have an employment
agreement with the Company, or (ii) is willing to terminate and supercede
such employment agreement to enter into this Agreement in consideration of the
additional rights and benefits set forth herein. 

B.             Focus
desires to enter into this Agreement on and pursuant to the terms of this Agreement
to secure the additional covenants of Executive as set forth herein and to
provide the additional rights and benefits to Executive in consideration of
Executive s obligations hereunder. 

AGREEMENT    

NOW,
THEREFORE  , the parties, in consideration of the foregoing
Recitals, each of which is incorporated by this reference as an essential term,
the covenants, conditions and other terms hereof, and other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged,
agree as follows: 

1.               Employment . Focus
shall employ Executive and Executive accepts full time employment as Senior
Vice President of Strategy and Business Development   Systems Group for the
term of this Agreement and on the terms and conditions set forth herein. 

2.               Duties and
Responsibilities . During the term of this Agreement, Executive shall devote
substantially all of his time, energy and skills to performing the duties and
responsibilities as Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Development
  Systems Group and such other duties as the Chief Executive Officer or Board
of Directors may require from time to time. Executive shall work faithfully and
to the best of his ability and efforts promoting the business interests of
Focus. Executive will discharge his duties at all times in accordance with any
and all policies of Focus and will report to, and be subject to the direction
of, the Chief Executive Officer or President of Focus, except that it is
understood Executive shall also work independently with the Board of Directors
as required by the Board. Executive shall be considered a key employee of the
Company. 

3.               Compensation .
Executive s base annual salary upon signing this Agreement shall be
$163,350. Executive s performance shall be reviewed annually thereafter.
Adjustments in salary may be made from time to time in the sole discretion of
the Board of Directors. Salary shall be paid in arrears in accordance with
Company s standard pay policy. 

4.               Bonus Compensation .
Executive shall be eligible to earn bonus compensation in each fiscal year
ending December 31 during the term. Subject to the achievement of the
goals 

A-1  

identified
in    Exhibit A    as determined by
Company in its reasonable discretion, the bonus compensation shall be
calculated and paid in accordance with    Exhibit A   .
Executive s target bonus compensation shall be 30% of Executive s annual base
salary, in proportion of Executive s period of employment during the applicable
year (measured on a 365 day/year basis).    Exhibit A   
shall be revised by the Company for each such fiscal year during the term of
this Agreement;  provided ,  however , once the Board of Directors
establishes a bonus compensation plan with respect to Executive for any fiscal
year, no revision shall thereafter occur without the written consent of the
Executive. All bonus payments shall be verified against and payable one week
following publication of the Company s quarterly earnings release or Form 10-K
(Q). The parties expressly contemplate that    Exhibit A   
will change from year to year. Each new    Exhibit A   
shall be attached hereto. To be eligible for payment, Executive must be
employed by Focus on the date the bonus payment is due;  provided ,  however ,
if Executive is not employed on the date the bonus is due because of (i) Executive s
voluntary termination, or (ii) Executive s involuntary termination by
Focus for Cause, then the bonus will be paid but only in proportion to
Executive s period of employment during the applicable year in relation to a
365 day year. In addition, for purposes of this provision, termination of
employment due to Executive s death shall be deemed an involuntary termination
without Cause.  

5.               Executive Benefits . 

(a)             Vacation .
Executive shall receive a minimum of 20 business days of paid vacation and
thereafter consistent with the Company s vacation policy, during each year of
this Agreement (pro rata). Executive may be absent from his employment for
vacation only at such times the Executive notifies the Employer s President and
CEO of the planned vacation at least 10 (ten) days in advance. Unused vacation
will carry over from one year to the next but the maximum amount of vacation,
which can accrue (unused) at any one time, shall not exceed 20 business days.
Unused vacation will not be paid in the form of cash, except upon termination
of employment. 

(b)             Benefits .
Executive shall be eligible to participate in any and all benefit plans
generally provided by the Company, on the same basis as same are made available
to other executives, including health, disability and life insurance coverage
should Executive elect to participate in any such plans. 

6.               Expenses . Focus shall
reimburse Executive for all reasonable business expenses incurred by Executive
pursuant to Company policies (as adopted from time to time); provided that
Executive complies with any established policy and procedure for the
reimbursement of such expenses, including, but not limited to, submitting an
appropriate expense report. 

7.               Term and Termination . 

(a)             Specified
Period . The Initial Term of this Agreement shall be one year starting on
the Commencement Date. ( Initial Term ) 

(b)             Succeeding
Term . This Agreement shall automatically renew without lapse, after the
Initial Term for additional one-year periods (each a  Succeeding Term ), unless
(i) written notice of non renewal is given by Focus to Executive at least
thirty (30) days before such applicable anniversary or (ii) unless earlier
(a) terminated upon the written 

A-2  

mutual agreement
of the Executive and Focus, or (b) pursuant to the events and/or
occurrences set forth below. Collectively, the Initial Term and Succeeding Term
are referred to as the  Term.  This Agreement and Executive s employment may be
terminated:  

(i)             By
Executive for  Good Reason  (as defined below) upon thirty (30) days prior
written notice to Focus; 

(ii)            By
Executive at any time without Good Reason upon fourteen (14) days advance
written notice; 

(iii)           By
Focus for  Cause  (as defined below) immediately upon written notice to
Executive; 

(iv)           By
Focus in the event of Executive s  Disability  (as defined below); 

(v)            Automatically
upon Executive s death; 

(vi)           By
Focus at any time, with or without notice, as specified by Focus, for any
reason other than termination for Cause or Disability ( without Cause ). 

8.               Consequences of
Termination . 

(a)             Termination
for Cause or Resignation Without Good Reason . If (i) Executive s
employment is terminated by Focus for  Cause  or (ii) Executive resigns
without Good Reason, then (x) Focus shall pay the Executive his base salary, as
described in Section 3 above, to the date of termination, and commissions
earned through the date of termination as defined by the applicable commission
plan then in effect and (y) Executive shall not be entitled to any other
salary, bonus compensation or fringe benefits after the date of termination,
except the right to receive benefits which have become vested under any benefit
plan or to which Executive is entitled as a matter of law. 

(b)             Resignation
for Good Reason or Termination Without Cause . If Executive (i) resigns
his employment for Good Reason or (ii) is terminated by Company without
Cause, and (iii) executes the Company s standard release of claims agreement,
then, immediately following the date of Executive s termination of employment
and the exhaustion of any revocation period contained in said release, Company
will continue payment of Executive s Salary (at the same rate existing prior to
the termination) for a period of six (6) months ( the Severance Period )
pursuant to Focus  normal payroll practices. In addition, (i) Focus shall
either pay directly or reimburse Executive for premiums incurred in connection
with continuation of coverage under the Company s health, dental, disability
and life insurance plans to which Executive is entitled in accordance with
applicable law for the Severance Period and (ii) Focus shall pay Executive
all bonus compensation otherwise due for the applicable fiscal year of termination,
prorated to the date of termination of employment;  provided ,  however ,
such bonus compensation shall be payable only in accordance with and at the
times of the regularly scheduled bonus compensation payment that Executive
would have otherwise been subject to prior to termination and (iii) any
and all unvested stock options and/or restricted stock in 

A-3  

Executive s name
shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable, provided that,
regardless of the terms of any option or stock purchase agreement between the
Company and Executive, absent a separate signed written agreement between
Company and Executive which specifically references this provision of this
Agreement, no exercise shall occur more than six months after such termination
and in no event after the expiration of such option. In the event of Executive s
subsequent death after his termination by Focus without Cause or by Executive
or for Good Reason, Focus shall continue to pay the same payments and benefits
as to which Executive was entitled at the date of his death to Executive s
surviving spouse, or if Executive is unmarried at the time, then to Executive s
estate.  

(c)             Termination
in the Event of Death or Disability . If Executive s employment terminates
due to Executive s death or if Focus terminates Executive s employment due to
Executive s Disability, then Focus will pay Executive s salary to Executive or
his legal representative for the remainder of the month in which his employment
is so terminated. In the circumstance described in the immediately preceding
sentence, Executive, his estate or his qualified representative(s) will be
entitled to receive all applicable Disability and other benefits, such as
continued health or Disability coverage or life insurance proceeds, provided in
accordance with the terms and conditions of any health, life, disability, or
other Company benefit plans or in accordance with applicable law. In addition,
bonus compensation shall be calculated and paid in the manner described in Section 8(b) above. 

(d)             Suspension
of Payment . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if Executive
is in violation of any provision of Section 9, 10, 11 or 12 below, Focus
shall have no obligation to make payment(s) under Section 8(b) of
this Agreement if Focus has determined in good faith that such a violation(s)
has occurred or is occurring. If it is later established through arbitration or
other judicial proceeding that no such violation occurred, Focus shall agree to
pay to Executive any such amount withheld from or not paid during such period. 

(e)             No
Mitigation . Executive will be under no obligation to mitigate damages by
seeking other employment, and there will be no offset against the amounts due
Executive under this Agreement, except as specifically provided in Section 8(d) above
or for any other claims which Focus may have against Executive. 

(f)              Change
of Control . If (A) there is a  Change of Control  of Focus, as defined
in this Agreement, and (B) (i) Executive is terminated by Focus for
any reason other than for  Cause,  or (ii) Executive terminates his
employment for  Good Reason,  in each case within twelve (12) months of the
date of such Change of Control transaction, then Executive shall, after the
execution of the Company s standard release of claims agreement and the
exhaustion of any revocation period contained in such release, be entitled to a
continuation of salary, bonus compensation and full benefits for six (6) full
months following the effective date of such termination ( the Change of Control
Severance Period ). Upon such termination, notwithstanding any provision of any
other agreement between Company and Executive, any and all unvested Company
stock or options in Executive s name shall immediately vest in full and be
exercisable, provided that, regardless of the terms of any option or stock
purchase agreement between the Company and Executive, absent a separate signed
written agreement between Company and 

A-4  

Executive which
specifically references this provision of this Agreement, no exercise shall
occur more than six months after such termination and in no event after the
expiration of such option. All salary, bonus, other Company compensation payments
and other benefits shall be made or provided, as applicable, in accordance with
the existing payment and benefit schedules or policies of Focus at the time of
such termination. For purposes of this Change of Control provision, during the
Change of Control Severance Period, Executive shall not be obligated to perform
any duties but he shall remain bound by all of his other common law and
contractual obligations hereunder.  

(g)             Survival
of Provisions . The obligations of confidentiality and assignment of inventions
under Section 9 and the obligations of Confidential Information and
assignment of inventions, non-solicitation and non-disparagement under
Sections 9, 10, 11 and/or 12 hereof shall survive the termination of this
Agreement for any reason. 

9.               Confidential Information
and Assignment of Inventions . 

(a)            Executive
will not disclose to a third party or use for his personal benefit confidential
information of Focus.    Confidential Information   
means any information used or useful in Focus  business that is not generally
known outside of Focus and that is proprietary to Focus relating to any aspect
of Focus  existing or reasonably foreseeable business which is disclosed to
Executive or conceived, discovered or developed by Executive. Confidential
Information includes, but is not limited to: product designs including drawings
and sketches, manufacturing materials, plant layouts, tooling, sales marketing
plans or proposals, customer information, customer lists, raw material sources,
manufacturing processes, price, financial, accounting and cost information,
clinical data, administrative techniques and documents and information
designated by Focus as  Confidential.  Executive shall also comply with the
terms of any Confidentiality Agreement by which Focus is bound to a third party
as well as the Company s Confidential Information and Invention Assignment
Agreement. 

(b)            Executive
grants to Focus the exclusive ownership of all reports, drawings, blueprints,
data writings, and technical information made by Executive alone or with others
during the term of his employment, whether or not made or prepared in the
course of his employment, that relate to apparatus, compositions of matter or
methods pertaining to Focus business. Executive acknowledges that all such reports,
drawings, blueprints, data writings and technical information are the property
of Focus. 

(c)            Executive
will promptly disclose to Focus in writing all inventions and proprietary
information which he alone or with others conceives, generates, or reduces to
practice, during or after working hours while an employee of Focus and for six (6) months
following Executive s termination of employment with respect to work performed
by Executive for Focus. All such inventions and proprietary information shall
be the exclusive property of Focus and are assigned to Focus. This Agreement
shall not apply to any invention for which no equipment, supplies, facility, or
trade secret information of Focus was used, and which was developed entirely on
Executive s time, and (1) which does not relate (a) directly to the
business of Focus, or (b) to Focus  actual or demonstrably anticipated
research or development, or (2) which does not result from any work
performed by Executive for Focus. 

A-5  

(d)            At
Focus  expense, Executive shall give Focus all assistance it reasonably
requires to perfect, protect, and use its rights to inventions and proprietary
information. In particular, but without limitation, Executive will sign all
documents, do all things, and supply all information that Focus may deem
necessary or desirable to (1) transfer or record the transfer of Executive s
entire right, title and interest in inventions and proprietary information; and
(2) enable Focus to obtain patent, copyright, or trademark protection for
inventions anywhere in the world. Executive understands that the provisions of
this Section 9 do not apply to any invention which qualifies fully under
the provisions of California Labor Code Section 2870 (attached hereto as    Exhibit B   ). 

10.             Non-Competition . During
the Term, Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, either as an Executive,
consultant, agent, principal, partner, stockholder (except in a publicly held
company), corporate officer, director, or in any other individual or
representative capacity, engage or participate in any business that is in
competition in any manner whatsoever with the then current or anticipated
business of Focus. 

11.             Non-Solicitation . In
addition to any obligations Executive may have under separate written agreement
with Company attached hereto as   Exhibit C  ,
during the Term of his employment with Focus and any Severance Period or Change
of Control Severance Period, and for a period of one (1) year after
termination of such employment or end of any Severance Period or Change of
Control Severance Period, whichever is later, Executive will not, directly or
indirectly, solicit, hire or otherwise engage, on his own behalf or on behalf
of another person or entity, the services of any person who is an employee of
Focus. 

12.             Non-Disparagement .
During and after the termination or expiration of this Agreement, Executive
shall not make any negative or disparaging remarks or comments (either oral or
written) about Focus, its affiliated or related companies, or any other
foregoing entity s directors, officers, employees, agents, services or
products, and Focus agrees not to make any negative or disparaging remarks or
comments (either oral or written) about Executive. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
each of the parties is entitled accurately to describe their past relationship
to potential employers, partners or affiliates of Executive or potential
partners or affiliates of Focus. 

13.             Arbitration . 

(a) Any controversy between Focus and Executive
involving the construction or application of any of the terms, provisions or
conditions of this Agreement or the breach thereof shall be settled by final and binding arbitration by a single
arbitrator to be held in Santa Clara, California, in accordance with the
National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American
Arbitration Association (AAA Rules) then in effect. The arbitrator selected
shall have the authority to grant Executive or the Company or both all remedies
otherwise available by law, including injunctions.  

(b)               Notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in the AAA Rules, the arbitration shall provide (i) for
written discovery and depositions adequate to give the Parties access to
documents and witnesses that are essential to the dispute and (ii) for a
written decision by the arbitrator that includes the essential findings and
conclusions upon which the decision is based. Consistent with applicable law,
Executive and the Company  

A-6  

shall each bear his or its own costs and
attorneys  fees incurred in conducting the arbitration and, except in such
disputes where Executive asserts a claim otherwise under a state or federal
statute prohibiting discrimination in employment ( a Statutory Discrimination
Claim ), or where otherwise required by law, shall split equally the fees and
administrative costs charged by the arbitrator and AAA. In disputes where
Executive asserts a Statutory Discrimination Claim against the Company, or
where otherwise required by law, Executive shall be required to pay only the
AAA filing fee to the extent such filing fee does not exceed the fee to file a
complaint in state or federal court. The Company shall pay the balance of the
arbitrator s fees and administrative costs.  

(c)            The decision of
the arbitrators will be final, conclusive and binding on the Parties to the
arbitration. The prevailing party in the arbitration, as determined by the
arbitrator, shall be entitled to recover his or its reasonable attorneys  fees
and costs, including the costs or fees charged by the arbitrator and AAA. In
disputes where Executive asserts a Statutory Discrimination Claim, reasonable
attorneys  fees shall be awarded by the arbitrator based on the same standard
as such fees would be awarded if the Statutory Discrimination Claim had been
asserted in state or federal court. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator s
decision in any court having jurisdiction. 

14.             Certain Definitions .
For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms will have the meaning set
forth below: 

(a)             Cause .
   Cause    means that Executive has: (i) committed
an act of dishonesty, fraud or breach of trust involving the business of Focus;
(ii) willfully failed to follow any material policy or material instructions
of Focus, his or her supervisor or its CEO provided such are lawful and not a
violation of public policy; (iii) been indicted for or convicted of any
felony; (iv) engaged in any gross misconduct, such as sexual harassment,
material violations of applicable law or defalcations in the performance of or
in connection with the Executive s duties or employment by Focus; or (v) otherwise
breached material obligations under this Agreement. 

(b)             Change
in Control .    Change in Control    means a change
in control of Focus of a nature that would be required to be reported on form 8-K
under SEC regulations pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the    Exchange Act   
 provided , that, without limiting the foregoing, a  Change in Control  shall
be deemed to have occurred at such times as (i) any person is or becomes a
 beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act),
directly or indirectly, of fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting
power of Focus  outstanding securities ordinarily possessing the right to vote
for the election of directors; (ii) there ceases to be a majority of the
Board of Directors comprised of the individuals described in the next sentence,
or (iii) Focus disposes of all or substantially all of its assets. For
purpose of this paragraph,    Board of Directors   
shall mean individuals who on the date hereof constituted the Board of
Directors and any new directors who subsequently are elected or nominated for
election by majority of the directors who held such office immediately prior to
Change in Control. The foregoing shall not apply to an internal reorganization
of the Company. 

A-7  

(c)             Disability .
   Disability    means that Executive
satisfies the conditions to be eligible for benefits under the disability plan
maintained by Focus, whether or not Executive is then covered by such plan. 

(d)             Good
Reason .    Good Reason    means Focus, without
Executive s consent: (i) during the Term of his employment at Focus,
requires Executive to relocate his principal residence more then fifty (50)
miles from such officer s principal residence on the Commencement Date of this
Agreement; or (ii) a substantial change in Executive s duties and
responsibilities; or (iii) at any time reduces Executive s base
compensation or material reduction in benefits in a manner which does not
proportionally apply to other senior executives; or (iv) at any time
otherwise materially breaches its obligations under this Agreement;  provided ,
 however , that upon notification of a  Good Reason  event, Focus shall
have thirty (30) days from its receipt of notice of such Good Reason to remedy
and cure such event, in which case of remedy or cure, the Good Reason shall be
deemed to be null and void. 

15.             Miscellaneous . 

(a)             Entire
Agreement . This Agreement, and any other agreement specifically referenced
herein, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to
its subject matter, and supersedes, merges and voids all previous agreements,
representations and warranties, written or oral, between the parties with
respect to such subject matter. All other prior employment agreement(s) between
Executive and Focus are hereby terminated and of no further force or effect.
Except as otherwise provided herein to Executive s benefit, this Agreement
shall not amend, modify, supersede or otherwise affect the terms of any stock
or option agreement(s), stock sale or sale restriction agreement(s) and any
confidentiality, non-disclosure, non-competition and inventions agreement(s) to
which Executive is a party with Focus. 

(b)             No
Oral Modifications . This Agreement may only be modified in a writing signed
by the Executive and an officer of Focus expressly authorized by Focus to
modify this Agreement. 

(c)             Personal
Agreement . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of
Focus. This Agreement shall be binding upon Executive, his heirs and personal
and legal representative. This Agreement may not be assigned by Executive. 

(d)             No
Waiver . No failure by either party to exercise, and no delay in exercising,
any right or remedy under this Agreement will operate as a waiver; nor will any
single or partial exercise of any right or remedy preclude any other or further
exercise of any right or remedy. The covenants and agreements set forth herein
may be waived only by a written instrument executed by the party waiving
compliance. Any such waiver shall only be effective in the specific instance
and for the specific purpose for which it was given and shall not be deemed a
waiver of any other provision hereof or of the same breach or default upon any
recurrence thereof. 

(e)             Specific
Performance . The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the
event that any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than the payment of 

A-8  

money for the
Executive s  Term of employment, were not performed in accordance with their
specific terms or are otherwise breached or threatened to be breached. In the
event of any breach or threatened breach, Executive acknowledges that damages
will be insufficient remedy to Focus in the event of a violation of Section 9,
10, 11 and/or 12 of this Agreement, and in the event of such breach or
threatened breach of this Agreement, Focus shall be entitled to seek injunctive
relief, without the necessity of posting bond, through a court of competent
jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of such Sections in addition to any
other rights or remedies available to Focus.  

(f)              Successors
and Assigns . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding
upon the Company, its successors and assigns and any such successor or assignee
shall be deemed substituted for the Company under the terms of this Agreement
for all purposes. As used herein,  successor  and  assignee  shall include any
person, firm, corporation or other business entity which at any time, whether
by purchase, merger or otherwise, directly or indirectly acquires the Company
or to which the Company assigns the Agreement by operation of law or otherwise. 

(g)             Survival .
Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Agreement, upon termination or
expiration of this Agreement for any reason, the covenants and obligations set
forth in Sections 6, 8 (including the applicability thereto of
Sections 3 and 4), 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 shall survive any
termination of this Agreement or Executive s employment hereunder until such
covenants and agreements are fully satisfied and require no further performance
or forbearance, or the rights of a party expire on the specific date by the
terms hereof. 

(h)             Adjustment
of Restrictions . If any provision of Section 9, 10, 11 and/or 12 of
this Agreement is found by a court or arbitrator to be unenforceable under
applicable law because one or more provisions are over broad or otherwise not
enforceable in the form as set forth herein, then the court or arbitrator shall
have the power to revise the terms of this Agreement to the extent necessary to
make the provisions hereof enforceable. 

(i)              Governing
Law . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
California without giving effect to the conflicts of law provisions of any
jurisdiction which would cause this Agreement to be governed by the laws of any
jurisdiction other than those of the State of California. 

(j)              Counterparts
and Facsimile Signatures . This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. The counterparts of this
Agreement and any schedules and exhibits hereto, if any, may be executed and
delivered by facsimile signature by any of the parties to any other party and
the receiving party may rely on the receipt of such document so executed and delivered
by facsimile as if the original had been received. 

(k)             Construction .
The parties have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this
Agreement. In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation
arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by both
parties, and no 

A-9  

presumption or
burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the
authorship of any of the provisions of this Agreement.  

[SIGNATURE
PAGE FOLLOWS]   

A-10  

IN
WITNESS OF THIS AGREEMENT  , the parties have signed below. 

A-11  

</EX-10.48>

<EX-10.49>
 8
 a06-2037_1ex10d49.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.49   

EXECUTIVE
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   

This   EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   (   Agreement   ) is made effective as of the
24th day of February 2005 by and between   Focus
Enhancements Inc  , a Delaware corporation, with its principal offices
in Campbell, California (hereinafter    Focus   
or the    Company   ), and Peter Mor
an individual and a resident of California (   Executive   ).  

RECITALS    

A.               Executive
is currently employed by Focus and either (i) does not have an employment
agreement with the Company, or (ii) is willing to terminate and supercede
such employment agreement to enter into this Agreement in consideration of the
additional rights and benefits set forth herein. 

B.               Focus
desires to enter into this Agreement on and pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement to secure the additional covenants of Executive as set forth herein
and to provide the additional rights and benefits to Executive in consideration
of Executive s obligations hereunder. 

AGREEMENT    

NOW,
THEREFORE  , the parties, in consideration of the foregoing
Recitals, each of which is incorporated by this reference as an essential term,
the covenants, conditions and other terms hereof, and other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged,
agree as follows: 

1.                 Employment .
Focus shall employ Executive and Executive accepts full time employment as
Senior Vice President of Engineering and Operations   Systems Group for the
term of this Agreement and on the terms and conditions set forth herein. 

2.                 Duties and
Responsibilities . During the term of this Agreement, Executive shall devote
substantially all of his time, energy and skills to performing the duties and
responsibilities as Senior Vice President of Research and Development and
Operations   Systems Group and such other duties as the Chief Executive Officer
or Board of Directors may require from time to time. Executive shall work
faithfully and to the best of his ability and efforts promoting the business
interests of Focus. Executive will discharge his duties at all times in
accordance with any and all policies of Focus and will report to, and be
subject to the direction of, the Chief Executive Officer or President of Focus,
except that it is understood Executive shall also work independently with the Board
of Directors as required by the Board. Executive shall be considered a key
employee of the Company. 

3.                 Compensation .
Executive s base annual salary upon signing this Agreement shall be
$200,000. Executive s performance shall be reviewed annually thereafter.
Adjustments in salary may be made from time to time in the sole discretion of
the Board of Directors. Salary shall be paid in arrears in accordance with
Company s standard pay policy. 

4.                 Bonus Compensation .
Executive shall be eligible to earn bonus compensation in each fiscal year
ending December 31 during the term. Subject to the achievement of the
goals 

A-1  

identified
in    Exhibit A    as determined by
Company in its reasonable discretion, the bonus compensation shall be
calculated and paid in accordance with    Exhibit A   .
Executive s target bonus compensation shall be 25% of Executive s annual base
salary, in proportion of Executive s period of employment during the applicable
year (measured on a 365 day/year basis).    Exhibit A   
shall be revised by the Company for each such fiscal year during the term of
this Agreement;  provided ,  however , once the Board of Directors
establishes a bonus compensation plan with respect to Executive for any fiscal
year, no revision shall thereafter occur without the written consent of the
Executive. All bonus payments shall be verified against and payable one week
following publication of the Company s quarterly earnings release or Form 10-K
(Q). The parties expressly contemplate that    Exhibit A   
will change from year to year. Each new    Exhibit A   
shall be attached hereto. To be eligible for payment, Executive must be
employed by Focus on the date the bonus payment is due;  provided ,  however ,
if Executive is not employed on the date the bonus is due because of (i) Executive s
voluntary termination, or (ii) Executive s involuntary termination by
Focus for Cause, then the bonus will be paid but only in proportion to
Executive s period of employment during the applicable year in relation to a
365 day year. In addition, for purposes of this provision, termination of
employment due to Executive s death shall be deemed an involuntary termination
without Cause.  

5.                 Executive Benefits . 

(a)               Vacation .
Executive shall receive a minimum of 15 business days of paid vacation and
thereafter consistent with the Company s vacation policy, during each year of
this Agreement (pro rata). Executive may be absent from his employment for
vacation only at such times the Executive notifies the Employer s President and
CEO of the planned vacation at least 10 (ten) days in advance. Unused vacation
will carry over from one year to the next but the maximum amount of vacation,
which can accrue (unused) at any one time, shall not exceed 20 business days.
Unused vacation will not be paid in the form of cash, except upon termination
of employment. 

(b)               Benefits .
Executive shall be eligible to participate in any and all benefit plans
generally provided by the Company, on the same basis as same are made available
to other executives, including health, disability and life insurance coverage
should Executive elect to participate in any such plans. 

6.                 Expenses .
Focus shall reimburse Executive for all reasonable business expenses incurred
by Executive pursuant to Company policies (as adopted from time to time);
provided that Executive complies with any established policy and procedure for
the reimbursement of such expenses, including, but not limited to, submitting
an appropriate expense report. 

7.                 Term and
Termination . 

(a)               Specified
Period . The Initial Term of this Agreement shall be one year starting on
the Commencement Date. ( Initial Term ) 

(b)               Succeeding
Term . This Agreement shall automatically renew without lapse, after the
Initial Term for additional one-year periods (each a  Succeeding Term ), unless
(i) written notice of non renewal is given by Focus to Executive at least
thirty (30) days before such applicable anniversary or (ii) unless earlier
(a) terminated upon the written 

A-2  

mutual agreement
of the Executive and Focus, or (b) pursuant to the events and/or
occurrences set forth below. Collectively, the Initial Term and Succeeding Term
are referred to as the  Term.  This Agreement and Executive s employment may be
terminated:  

(i)               By
Executive for  Good Reason  (as defined below) upon thirty (30) days prior
written notice to Focus; 

(ii)              By
Executive at any time without Good Reason upon fourteen (14) days advance
written notice; 

(iii)             By
Focus for  Cause  (as defined below) immediately upon written notice to
Executive; 

(iv)             By
Focus in the event of Executive s  Disability  (as defined below); 

(v)              Automatically
upon Executive s death; 

(vi)             By
Focus at any time, with or without notice, as specified by Focus, for any
reason other than termination for Cause or Disability ( without Cause ). 

8.                 Consequences of
Termination . 

(a)               Termination
for Cause or Resignation Without Good Reason . If (i) Executive s
employment is terminated by Focus for  Cause  or (ii) Executive resigns
without Good Reason, then (x) Focus shall pay the Executive his base salary, as
described in Section 3 above, to the date of termination, and commissions
earned through the date of termination as defined by the applicable commission
plan then in effect and (y) Executive shall not be entitled to any other
salary, bonus compensation or fringe benefits after the date of termination,
except the right to receive benefits which have become vested under any benefit
plan or to which Executive is entitled as a matter of law. 

(b)               Resignation
for Good Reason or Termination Without Cause . If Executive (i) resigns
his employment for Good Reason or (ii) is terminated by Company without
Cause, and (iii) executes the Company s standard release of claims
agreement, then, immediately following the date of Executive s termination of
employment and the exhaustion of any revocation period contained in said
release, Company will continue payment of Executive s Salary (at the same rate
existing prior to the termination) for a period of six (6) months ( the
Severance Period ) pursuant to Focus  normal payroll practices. In addition, (i) Focus
shall either pay directly or reimburse Executive for premiums incurred in
connection with continuation of coverage under the Company s health, dental,
disability and life insurance plans to which Executive is entitled in
accordance with applicable law for the Severance Period and (ii) Focus
shall pay Executive all bonus compensation otherwise due for the applicable
fiscal year of termination, prorated to the date of termination of employment;  provided ,
 however , such bonus compensation shall be payable only in accordance
with and at the times of the regularly scheduled bonus compensation payment
that Executive would have otherwise been subject to prior to termination and (iii) any
and all unvested stock options and/or restricted stock in 

A-3  

Executive s name
shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable, provided that,
regardless of the terms of any option or stock purchase agreement between the
Company and Executive, absent a separate signed written agreement between
Company and Executive which specifically references this provision of this
Agreement, no exercise shall occur more than six months after such termination
and in no event after the expiration of such option. In the event of Executive s
subsequent death after his termination by Focus without Cause or by Executive
or for Good Reason, Focus shall continue to pay the same payments and benefits
as to which Executive was entitled at the date of his death to Executive s
surviving spouse, or if Executive is unmarried at the time, then to Executive s
estate.  

(c)               Termination
in the Event of Death or Disability . If Executive s employment terminates
due to Executive s death or if Focus terminates Executive s employment due to
Executive s Disability, then Focus will pay Executive s salary to Executive or
his legal representative for the remainder of the month in which his employment
is so terminated. In the circumstance described in the immediately preceding
sentence, Executive, his estate or his qualified representative(s) will be
entitled to receive all applicable Disability and other benefits, such as
continued health or Disability coverage or life insurance proceeds, provided in
accordance with the terms and conditions of any health, life, disability, or
other Company benefit plans or in accordance with applicable law. In addition,
bonus compensation shall be calculated and paid in the manner described in Section 8(b) above. 

(d)               Suspension
of Payment . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if Executive
is in violation of any provision of Section 9, 10, 11 or 12 below, Focus
shall have no obligation to make payment(s) under Section 8(b) of
this Agreement if Focus has determined in good faith that such a violation(s)
has occurred or is occurring. If it is later established through arbitration or
other judicial proceeding that no such violation occurred, Focus shall agree to
pay to Executive any such amount withheld from or not paid during such period. 

(e)               No
Mitigation . Executive will be under no obligation to mitigate damages by
seeking other employment, and there will be no offset against the amounts due
Executive under this Agreement, except as specifically provided in Section 8(d) above
or for any other claims which Focus may have against Executive. 

(f)                Change
of Control . If (A) there is a  Change of Control  of Focus, as defined
in this Agreement, and (B) (i) Executive is terminated by Focus for
any reason other than for  Cause,  or (ii) Executive terminates his
employment for  Good Reason,  in each case within twelve (12) months of the
date of such Change of Control transaction, then Executive shall, after the
execution of the Company s standard release of claims agreement and the
exhaustion of any revocation period contained in such release, be entitled to a
continuation of salary, bonus compensation and full benefits for six (6) full
months following the effective date of such termination ( the Change of Control
Severance Period ). Upon such termination, notwithstanding any provision of any
other agreement between Company and Executive, any and all unvested Company
stock or options in Executive s name shall immediately vest in full and be
exercisable, provided that, regardless of the terms of any option or stock
purchase agreement between the Company and Executive, absent a separate signed
written agreement between Company and 

A-4  

Executive which
specifically references this provision of this Agreement, no exercise shall
occur more than six months after such termination and in no event after the
expiration of such option. All salary, bonus, other Company compensation
payments and other benefits shall be made or provided, as applicable, in
accordance with the existing payment and benefit schedules or policies of Focus
at the time of such termination. For purposes of this Change of Control
provision, during the Change of Control Severance Period, Executive shall not
be obligated to perform any duties but he shall remain bound by all of his
other common law and contractual obligations hereunder.  

(g)               Survival
of Provisions . The obligations of confidentiality and assignment of inventions
under Section 9 and the obligations of Confidential Information and
assignment of inventions, non-solicitation and non-disparagement under
Sections 9, 10, 11 and/or 12 hereof shall survive the termination of this
Agreement for any reason. 

9.                 Confidential
Information and Assignment of Inventions . 

(a)              Executive
will not disclose to a third party or use for his personal benefit confidential
information of Focus.    Confidential Information   
means any information used or useful in Focus  business that is not generally
known outside of Focus and that is proprietary to Focus relating to any aspect
of Focus  existing or reasonably foreseeable business which is disclosed to
Executive or conceived, discovered or developed by Executive. Confidential
Information includes, but is not limited to: product designs including drawings
and sketches, manufacturing materials, plant layouts, tooling, sales marketing
plans or proposals, customer information, customer lists, raw material sources,
manufacturing processes, price, financial, accounting and cost information,
clinical data, administrative techniques and documents and information
designated by Focus as  Confidential.  Executive shall also comply with the
terms of any Confidentiality Agreement by which Focus is bound to a third party
as well as the Company s Confidential Information and Invention Assignment
Agreement. 

(b)              Executive
grants to Focus the exclusive ownership of all reports, drawings, blueprints,
data writings, and technical information made by Executive alone or with others
during the term of his employment, whether or not made or prepared in the
course of his employment, that relate to apparatus, compositions of matter or
methods pertaining to Focus business. Executive acknowledges that all such
reports, drawings, blueprints, data writings and technical information are the
property of Focus. 

(c)              Executive
will promptly disclose to Focus in writing all inventions and proprietary
information which he alone or with others conceives, generates, or reduces to practice,
during or after working hours while an employee of Focus and for six (6) months
following Executive s termination of employment with respect to work performed
by Executive for Focus. All such inventions and proprietary information shall
be the exclusive property of Focus and are assigned to Focus. This Agreement
shall not apply to any invention for which no equipment, supplies, facility, or
trade secret information of Focus was used, and which was developed entirely on
Executive s time, and (1) which does not relate (a) directly to the
business of Focus, or (b) to Focus  actual or demonstrably anticipated
research or development, or (2) which does not result from any work
performed by Executive for Focus. 

A-5  

(d)              At
Focus  expense, Executive shall give Focus all assistance it reasonably
requires to perfect, protect, and use its rights to inventions and proprietary
information. In particular, but without limitation, Executive will sign all
documents, do all things, and supply all information that Focus may deem
necessary or desirable to (1) transfer or record the transfer of Executive s
entire right, title and interest in inventions and proprietary information; and
(2) enable Focus to obtain patent, copyright, or trademark protection for
inventions anywhere in the world. Executive understands that the provisions of
this Section 9 do not apply to any invention which qualifies fully under
the provisions of California Labor Code Section 2870 (attached hereto as    Exhibit B   ). 

10.               Non-Competition .
During the Term, Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, either as an
Executive, consultant, agent, principal, partner, stockholder (except in a
publicly held company), corporate officer, director, or in any other individual
or representative capacity, engage or participate in any business that is in
competition in any manner whatsoever with the then current or anticipated
business of Focus. 

11.               Non-Solicitation .
In addition to any obligations Executive may have under separate written
agreement with Company attached hereto as   Exhibit C  ,
during the Term of his employment with Focus and any Severance Period or Change
of Control Severance Period, and for a period of one (1) year after
termination of such employment or end of any Severance Period or Change of
Control Severance Period, whichever is later, Executive will not, directly or
indirectly, solicit, hire or otherwise engage, on his own behalf or on behalf
of another person or entity, the services of any person who is an employee of
Focus. 

12.               Non-Disparagement .
During and after the termination or expiration of this Agreement, Executive
shall not make any negative or disparaging remarks or comments (either oral or
written) about Focus, its affiliated or related companies, or any other
foregoing entity s directors, officers, employees, agents, services or
products, and Focus agrees not to make any negative or disparaging remarks or
comments (either oral or written) about Executive. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, each of the parties is entitled accurately to describe their past
relationship to potential employers, partners or affiliates of Executive or
potential partners or affiliates of Focus. 

13.               Arbitration . 

(a) Any controversy between Focus and Executive
involving the construction or application of any of the terms, provisions or
conditions of this Agreement or the breach thereof shall be settled by final and binding arbitration by a single
arbitrator to be held in Santa Clara, California, in accordance with the
National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American
Arbitration Association (AAA Rules) then in effect. The arbitrator selected
shall have the authority to grant Executive or the Company or both all remedies
otherwise available by law, including injunctions.  

(b)               Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the AAA Rules,
the arbitration shall provide (i) for written discovery and depositions
adequate to give the Parties access to documents and witnesses that are
essential to the dispute and (ii) for a written decision by the arbitrator
that includes the essential findings and conclusions upon which the decision is
based. Consistent with applicable law, Executive and the Company  

A-6  

shall each bear his or its own costs and
attorneys  fees incurred in conducting the arbitration and, except in such
disputes where Executive asserts a claim otherwise under a state or federal
statute prohibiting discrimination in employment ( a Statutory Discrimination
Claim ), or where otherwise required by law, shall split equally the fees and
administrative costs charged by the arbitrator and AAA. In disputes where
Executive asserts a Statutory Discrimination Claim against the Company, or
where otherwise required by law, Executive shall be required to pay only the
AAA filing fee to the extent such filing fee does not exceed the fee to file a
complaint in state or federal court. The Company shall pay the balance of the
arbitrator s fees and administrative costs.  

(c)              The decision of the arbitrators will be final,
conclusive and binding on the Parties to the arbitration. The prevailing party
in the arbitration, as determined by the arbitrator, shall be entitled to
recover his or its reasonable attorneys  fees and costs, including the costs or
fees charged by the arbitrator and AAA. In disputes where Executive asserts a
Statutory Discrimination Claim, reasonable attorneys  fees shall be awarded by
the arbitrator based on the same standard as such fees would be awarded if the
Statutory Discrimination Claim had been asserted in state or federal court.
Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator s decision in any court having
jurisdiction. 

14.               Certain Definitions .
For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms will have the meaning set
forth below: 

(a)               Cause .
   Cause    means that Executive has: (i) committed
an act of dishonesty, fraud or breach of trust involving the business of Focus;
(ii) willfully failed to follow any material policy or material
instructions of Focus, his or her supervisor or its CEO provided such are
lawful and not a violation of public policy; (iii) been indicted for or
convicted of any felony; (iv) engaged in any gross misconduct, such as
sexual harassment, material violations of applicable law or defalcations in the
performance of or in connection with the Executive s duties or employment by
Focus; or (v) otherwise breached material obligations under this
Agreement. 

(b)               Change
in Control .    Change in Control    means a change
in control of Focus of a nature that would be required to be reported on form 8-K
under SEC regulations pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the    Exchange Act   
 provided , that, without limiting the foregoing, a  Change in Control 
shall be deemed to have occurred at such times as (i) any person is or
becomes a  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange
Act), directly or indirectly, of fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined
voting power of Focus  outstanding securities ordinarily possessing the right
to vote for the election of directors; (ii) there ceases to be a majority
of the Board of Directors comprised of the individuals described in the next
sentence, or (iii) Focus disposes of all or substantially all of its assets.
For purpose of this paragraph,    Board of Directors   
shall mean individuals who on the date hereof constituted the Board of
Directors and any new directors who subsequently are elected or nominated for
election by majority of the directors who held such office immediately prior to
Change in Control. The foregoing shall not apply to an internal reorganization
of the Company. 

A-7  

(c)               Disability .
   Disability    means that Executive
satisfies the conditions to be eligible for benefits under the disability plan
maintained by Focus, whether or not Executive is then covered by such plan. 

(d)               Good
Reason .    Good Reason    means Focus, without
Executive s consent: (i) during the Term of his employment at Focus, requires
Executive to relocate his principal residence more then fifty (50) miles from
such officer s principal residence on the Commencement Date of this Agreement;
or (ii) a substantial change in Executive s duties and responsibilities;
or (iii) at any time reduces Executive s base compensation or material
reduction in benefits in a manner which does not proportionally apply to other
senior executives; or (iv) at any time otherwise materially breaches its
obligations under this Agreement;  provided ,  however , that upon
notification of a  Good Reason  event, Focus shall have thirty (30) days from
its receipt of notice of such Good Reason to remedy and cure such event, in
which case of remedy or cure, the Good Reason shall be deemed to be null and
void. 

15.               Miscellaneous . 

(a)               Entire
Agreement . This Agreement, and any other agreement specifically referenced
herein, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to
its subject matter, and supersedes, merges and voids all previous agreements,
representations and warranties, written or oral, between the parties with
respect to such subject matter. All other prior employment agreement(s) between
Executive and Focus are hereby terminated and of no further force or effect.
Except as otherwise provided herein to Executive s benefit, this Agreement
shall not amend, modify, supersede or otherwise affect the terms of any stock
or option agreement(s), stock sale or sale restriction agreement(s) and any
confidentiality, non-disclosure, non-competition and inventions agreement(s) to
which Executive is a party with Focus. 

(b)               No
Oral Modifications . This Agreement may only be modified in a writing signed
by the Executive and an officer of Focus expressly authorized by Focus to
modify this Agreement. 

(c)               Personal
Agreement . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of
Focus. This Agreement shall be binding upon Executive, his heirs and personal
and legal representative. This Agreement may not be assigned by Executive. 

(d)               No
Waiver . No failure by either party to exercise, and no delay in exercising,
any right or remedy under this Agreement will operate as a waiver; nor will any
single or partial exercise of any right or remedy preclude any other or further
exercise of any right or remedy. The covenants and agreements set forth herein
may be waived only by a written instrument executed by the party waiving
compliance. Any such waiver shall only be effective in the specific instance
and for the specific purpose for which it was given and shall not be deemed a
waiver of any other provision hereof or of the same breach or default upon any
recurrence thereof. 

(e)               Specific
Performance . The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the
event that any of the provisions of this Agreement, other than the payment of 

A-8  

money for the
Executive s  Term of employment, were not performed in accordance with their
specific terms or are otherwise breached or threatened to be breached. In the
event of any breach or threatened breach, Executive acknowledges that damages
will be insufficient remedy to Focus in the event of a violation of Section 9,
10, 11 and/or 12 of this Agreement, and in the event of such breach or
threatened breach of this Agreement, Focus shall be entitled to seek injunctive
relief, without the necessity of posting bond, through a court of competent
jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of such Sections in addition to any
other rights or remedies available to Focus.  

(f)                Successors
and Assigns . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding
upon the Company, its successors and assigns and any such successor or assignee
shall be deemed substituted for the Company under the terms of this Agreement
for all purposes. As used herein,  successor  and  assignee  shall include any
person, firm, corporation or other business entity which at any time, whether
by purchase, merger or otherwise, directly or indirectly acquires the Company
or to which the Company assigns the Agreement by operation of law or otherwise. 

(g)               Survival .
Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Agreement, upon termination or
expiration of this Agreement for any reason, the covenants and obligations set
forth in Sections 6, 8 (including the applicability thereto of
Sections 3 and 4), 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 shall survive any
termination of this Agreement or Executive s employment hereunder until such
covenants and agreements are fully satisfied and require no further performance
or forbearance, or the rights of a party expire on the specific date by the
terms hereof. 

(h)               Adjustment
of Restrictions . If any provision of Section 9, 10, 11 and/or 12 of
this Agreement is found by a court or arbitrator to be unenforceable under
applicable law because one or more provisions are over broad or otherwise not
enforceable in the form as set forth herein, then the court or arbitrator shall
have the power to revise the terms of this Agreement to the extent necessary to
make the provisions hereof enforceable. 

(i)                Governing
Law . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
California without giving effect to the conflicts of law provisions of any
jurisdiction which would cause this Agreement to be governed by the laws of any
jurisdiction other than those of the State of California. 

(j)                Counterparts
and Facsimile Signatures . This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. The counterparts of this
Agreement and any schedules and exhibits hereto, if any, may be executed and
delivered by facsimile signature by any of the parties to any other party and
the receiving party may rely on the receipt of such document so executed and
delivered by facsimile as if the original had been received. 

(k)               Construction .
The parties have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this
Agreement. In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation
arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by both
parties, and no 

A-9  

presumption or
burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the
authorship of any of the provisions of this Agreement.  

[SIGNATURE
PAGE FOLLOWS]   

A-10  

IN WITNESS OF THIS AGREEMENT  ,
the parties have signed below. 

A-11  

</EX-10.49>

<EX-10.50>
 9
 a06-2037_1ex10d50.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.50   

Managing Director Agreement    

between  

COMO Computer   Motion GmbH,
Lise-Meitner-Str.15, 24223 Raisdorf/ Germany, represented by its sole
shareholder, FOCUS Enhancements Inc., 1370 Dell Ave., Campbell CA 95008 USA,
who is represented by Mr Brett Moyer, President and Chief Executive Officer  

-
hereinafter referred to as  Company  -  

and  

Mr Norman Schlomka  

-
hereinafter referred to as  Managing Director  -  

Preamble   

The shareholders at the shareholder s meeting
of the Company have resolved:  

The individual appointed as Managing Director
shall be Mr Norman Schlomka, born on [omitted], 1964 in [omitted], residing in [omitted].  

He is entitled to exercise
sole decision-making authority, subject to the terms of this Agreement, whether
or not other managing directors are appointed. He shall be entitled to use the
title:  Managing Director and Senior Vice President of COMO Computer and
Motions GmbH; a Focus Enhancements Company .  

The parties to this employment contract resolve
the following which shall replace the existing version of the Managing Director
Agreement between the parties dated February 27, 2004 (including all
Addendums to this Agreement) and become effective between the parties as of January 1,
2006:  

1   

    Duties and Responsibilities    

1.                                The Managing Director is justified
and required to exercise sole authority to represent the Company and to direct
the affairs of the Company, as stipulated in this Agreement, the Articles of
Association and Bylaws of the Company and under German law. He is also required
to follow the directions and decisions arrived at by the shareholders  meeting. 

2.                                Within the
scope of management duties, the Managing Director is responsible for carrying
out the economic, financial, and organizational interests of the Company to the
best of his ability. 

3.                                 It is incumbent upon the Managing
Director to exercise due care of a reasonable and responsible businessperson.  

4.                                 The Managing Director shall be present at
shareholder s meetings if requested, he shall present a business report at such
shareholder s meeting, and, if requested, shall provide interim reports orally
and/or in writing.  

2   

    Duty of Loyalty, Trade Secrets    

1.                                The
Managing Director has the duty of the strictest confidentiality vis- -vis third
parties with regard to all matters entrusted to him and any business, Company,
or technical information and undertakings of an internal or confidential nature
that affect the Company that he has knowledge of. This duty exists beyond
termination of the employment relationship, including resignation or retirement 

2.                                Business
and Company related materials and information of all kinds (i.e., oral
information, documents, contracts, notes, correspondence, reports, recipes,
proceedings, calculations, among other materials, whether or not in their
original, carbon, duplicate, or in draft form) including personal business
notes may be used only in business matters for business purposes. In
particular, it is prohibited, outside of the Company, to 

2  

manufacture, to use,
or to transfer to third parties calculations of costs, statistics, drafts,
among other items, in the form of duplicates, copies, or excerpts.  

3.                               Documents
and other information referred to in Par. 2, which the Managing Director possesses
within the scope of his working relationship with the Company, shall be stored
with care, and shall be available at the request of the shareholders at any
time, but shall in any case be returned to the Company no later than the termination
of the employment relationship. The same principle applies for other objects in
the possession or ownership of the Company. 

4.                                The
Managing Director does not have the authority to validate any rights of
retention concerning the aforementioned materials and information. 

3   

    Legal Transactions Requiring Official Approval    

1.                                The Managing Director must obtain
approval from the shareholders at the shareholder s meeting for the following
activities: 

a)                               Purchase, sale and/or mortgaging of
any real property or buildings 

b)                              Opening or closing of any branch
offices 

c)                               Participation in other enterprises,
sale or lease of the Company or essential parts of the Company to third parties 

d)                              Entering into a loan agreement or extension
of credit 

e)                               Entering into any rental or lease
agreement for a term of more than one year or with a price term of more than
EUR 15,000.00 per year. 

f)                                 Appointment of holders of general
powers of attorney or authorized agents 

3  

g)                              Entering into employment contracts
with employees that provide for monthly wages exceeding EUR 6,000.00 or that
guarantee a percentage of company profits 

h)                              For all activities that exceed the
boundaries of the normal course of business of the company, pursuant to the
parameters laid out by   116 HGB 

i)                                  Entering into any agreement purchase
services or purchase inventory that exceeds EUR 25,000.00. 

2.                                The shareholders may at any time
eliminate or reduce the above-mentioned restrictions or restrict the Managing
Director further. 

4   

    Performance, Secondary Occupations    

1.                                Managing Director shall devote the
full extent of his capacity for work, his knowledge, and his experiences to the
Company. 

2.                                 The Managing Director is not bound by
certain working hours; however, he should devote a minimum number of 8 working
hours per day to the business of the Company. The Managing Director is
obligated, at any time, and whenever and to what extent the best interests of
the Company require it, to be available to fulfil his role as Managing Director.  

3.                                 The assumption of secondary roles in the
employment field, whether compensated or uncompensated, of honorary posts,
supervisory board membership, or other authorized seats requires the
pre-approval of the shareholders at the shareholders  meeting.  

The
same principle applies to publications and lectures which are related to the
field of activity of the shareholders.  

4  

4.                                 The Managing Director, throughout the
term of his employment contract, may not participate in any other venture that
competes with the Company or engage in any business relationship with such
competitor, whether self-employed or in the employment of another, whether
directly or indirectly, nor on a foreign account, whether occasionally or
professionally. The above principles apply also to participation or
under-participation in an enterprise, a silent partnership, a consulting
relationship, a favour or accommodation, a supervisory board (committee) involvement,
or honorary post that competes with the Company. The non-compete provision
shall not apply in the event of the Managing Director s participation in
securities ventures which are publicly traded and are obtained for the purpose
of capital investment.  

5   

    Post-employment Non-Competition Agreement    

1.                                The
Managing Director is obligated, for a period of one year after the termination
of the employment relationship to refrain from participating in any enterprise
which is a competitor of the Company or any enterprise that is connected to
such competitor, whether self-employed or in the employment of another, whether
directly or indirectly, nor on a foreign account, whether occasionally or
professionally. The above principles apply also to participation or under-participation
in an enterprise, a silent partnership, a consulting relationship, a favour or
accommodation, a supervisory board (committee) involvement, or honorary post
that competes with the Company. 

2.                                This
non-compete provision shall not apply if this Agreement terminates upon
extraordinary termination by the Managing Director caused by the Company or
Focus Enhancements Inc. The non-compete provision shall also not apply in the
event of the Managing Director s participation in securities ventures which are
publicly traded and are obtained for the purpose of capital investment. 

5  

3.                                During the
non-competition period stipulated in Par. 1 the Company shall pay compensation
to the Managing Director in an amount equal to 50% of his average annual income
over the previous year. This compensation shall be paid during the one year
term of the non-compete agreement in monthly instalments. The amount of
compensation shall be reduced by an amount equal gained by the Managing
Director from the provision of his services to third parties during such
non-compete period to the extent stipulated in Sec. 74c HGB. The card
indicating the income tax/ social security contributions made by the Company
must be presented by the Managing Director. If it is not presented, the aforementioned
compensation of the Managing Director can not be claimed from the Company. 

4.                                The
Company is entitled to waive its non-compete rights stipulated in this   5
in accordance with Sec. 75a HGB. 

5.                                For each
violation of the non-compete agreement, the Managing Director must pay a
penalty for breach of contract in an amount equal to two times his earnings
over the previous month. If no longer employed by the Company, the last monthly
payment he received will serve the same purpose. In the event of a continuous
breach of the non-compete agreement, each prohibited activity during a month
will count as a separate breach of contract within the meaning of Par. 1. 

6   

    Earnings    

1.                                The
Managing Director shall receive as compensation for services rendered an annual
gross salary of EUR 85,000.00 the net amount of which shall be paid in 12 equal
monthly instalments. The annual salary includes Christmas and vacation bonuses. 

2.                                Managing
Director shall be eligible to earn bonus compensation in each fiscal year
ending each December 31 during the Term as defined in   10. This
bonus is subject to the achievement of the goals determined by the 

6  

shareholders  meeting
in its reasonable discretion which will take place in each January of a
respective calendar year during the Term of this Agreement. Managing Director s
maximum target bonus compensation shall be 30% of Managing Director s annual
base salary in proportion of Managing Director s period of employment during
the applicable year (measured on a 365 day/year basis). This bonus shall be
revised by the Company for each such fiscal year during the Term of this
Agreement. The parties expressly contemplate that the bonus will change from
year to year.  

If Managing Director
is not employed on the date the commission or bonus payment is due because of (i) Managing
Director s voluntary termination, or (ii) Managing Director s involuntary
termination by the Company for cause, then no commission or bonus payment shall
be due. In addition, for purposes of this provision, termination of employment
due to Managing Director s death shall be deemed an involuntary termination
without cause.  

3.                                All
payments stipulated in this   6 will be paid only in proportion to
Managing Director s period of employment during the applicable year in relation
to a 365 day year. 

4.                                The
Managing Director is not entitled to receive compensation for hours worked, on
Sundays, holidays, or any other time beyond normal working hours (overtime). 

7   

    Vacation    

1.                                The Managing Director is entitled to
an annual vacation of 30 working days, where Saturdays are not considered
working days. The Managing shall take vacation with consideration of the
Company s business interests. 

7  

2.                                Vacation
not taken in any calendar year may only be carried forward to the next calendar
year with the approval of the shareholders  meeting, or if the vacation could
not be taken in the preceding year due to the business of the Company requiring
the presence of the Managing Director. Vacation carried forward must be taken by
March 31 of the following calendar year. If vacation carried forward is
not taken by March 31 of the aforementioned following calendar year, up to
a maximum of 2 weeks (=10 working days) of such unused vacation will be paid
out by the Company to the Managing Director based on his daily equivalent salary
stipulated in   6 Par.1. 

8   

    Other Benefits    

1.                                 The Company shall provide the Managing Director with a
company car, chosen by the shareholders  meeting, the make and model of which
shall be, respectively, medium-sized, which also is intended for personal use.
Any taxes, i.e. personal income taxes related to the convenience of operating
the company car for personal use are the responsibility of the Managing Director.  

2.                                 Should the Managing Director be recalled from his
position and/or is released from his duties as Managing Director or his
employment relationship is terminated by expiration of the employment term, the
Company is entitled to demand the return of the company car, without the
obligation of compensating the Managing Director for any monetary expenses he
incurred as a result of retaining the benefit of using the company car for
personal purposes. The Managing Director does not have any legal right of
retention in relation to the Company.  

8  

9   

    Expenses    

1.                                 The Company shall reimburse the Managing Director for
travel expenses at the maximum rate permitted by taxes.  

2.                                 The Managing Director must be able to verify his
expenses, in a manner and to the extent that expenses are usually verified.  

10   

    Term of Agreement    

1.                               The term of this Agreement shall be two years after
the Commencement Date ( Term ) unless earlier terminated by either party,
giving a three-month written notice until the end of each calendar month;
notwithstanding each party s right to terminate this Agreement for cause.  

2.                                 Notice of termination must be given in writing. A
revocation of appointment as Managing Director shall at the same time be deemed
as termination of this Contract with notice period, provided that no
termination for cause is made.  

3.                                 If Managing Director s employment terminates due to
Managing Director s death, the Company will pay the Managing Director s
compensation to his legal heirs for a period of six months. Such compensation
shall be calculated and paid in the manner described in   6 of this Agreement.  

4.                                 In case of a termination of this Agreement by the
Company without cause or in the event the Agreement is not renewed at its Term,
the Managing Director will in addition to any other payments stipulated in this
Agreement receive a severance payment in a total amount equivalent to 3 months
basic salary as stipulated in   6 Par. 1 of this Agreement which is to be
paid by the Company in 3 equal monthly instalments each of them falling due on
the last working day of each respective month following the termination.  

9  

11   

    Final Provisions    

1.                                This
Agreement, and any other agreement specifically referenced herein, constitutes
the entire agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter,
and supersedes, merges and voids all previous agreements, representations and
warranties, written or oral, between the parties with respect to such subject
matter. It replaces the Managing Director Agreement entered into on February 27,
2004 between the parties. 

2.                                This
Agreement may only be modified in writing. Any changes to this Agreement
require the written and express consent of the shareholders at a shareholder s
meeting. 

3.                                 If one of the provisions of this
Agreement is held to be invalid, the remaining provisions shall remain valid,
and the invalid provision shall be replaced by such valid one which has the
closest admissible economic effect. The same shall apply in the event that the
Contract is found to be incomplete.  

4.                                 In the event of disputes in connection
with this Agreement the place of jurisdiction shall be the corporate seat of
the Company.  

5.                                 This Agreement shall be governed and
construed in accordance with the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany.  

10  

</EX-10.50>

<EX-10.51>
 10
 a06-2037_1ex10d51.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

EXHIBIT 10.51   

BASE
SALARIES OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

As of February 1, 2006, the Compensation
Committee of Focus Enhancements Inc. (Focus) set the following base salaries
(on an annual basis) for our named executive officers:   

* Mr. Hamilton s base salary was not adjusted. Mr. Hamilton s
salary is scheduled to be reviewed in July 2006.  

Each of the named executive officers will be
eligible to receive a discretionary bonus for 2006 between 25% and 50% of their
base salary.  

Like all employees of Focus, each of the named
executive officers is also eligible to receive an allocation pursuant to Focus 
401(k) Plan.  

Each of the named executive officers is also
eligible to participate in Focus  Stock Incentive Plans.  

</EX-10.51>

<EX-10.52>
 11
 a06-2037_1ex10d52.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.52   

FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS, INC.   

2000 Plan - Executive Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement    

FOCUS
ENHANCEMENTS, INC., a Delaware Corporation (the   Company   ) hereby
grants to               
(the   Optionee )  on this the                                 a
Non-Qualified Stock Option to purchase                                 (###)
shares (the   Option Shares )  of Common Stock, $0.01 par value (the  Common
Stock ), at a price per share equaling the closing price of the Company s
common stock on its principle market on a per share basis on the date that the
Plan (defined later herein) is approved by the shareholders of the Company.
Both parties acknowledge that the Company previously entered an Executive
Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement with Optionee having the same effective
date and granting the right to purchase the same amount of shares of Company s
common stock ( Original Agreement ) where such Original Agreement contained
language regarding the price of the option which was inconsistent with the intent
of the parties. This Agreement shall replace the Original Agreement and upon
execution hereof, and such Original Agreement shall immediately become null and
void without recourse.  

NOW,
THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is
hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Optionee hereby agree as follows:  

1.                                               Grant as Non-Qualified Option;
Other Options.        This Option is intended to
be a Non-Qualified Option (rather than an incentive stock option), and the
Board of Directors intends to take appropriate action, if necessary, to achieve
this result. This Option is in addition to any other options heretofore or
hereafter granted to the Optionee by the Company, but a duplicate original of
this instrument shall not affect the grant on another option. This Agreement
shall be subject in all respects to shareholder approval of the underlying
option plan ( Plan ). If, for any reason, the Plan is not approved by the
shareholders, this grant shall be voidable at the sole option of the Company. 

2.                                               Vesting of Options.        If the Optionee continues to serve the
Company as an employee, officer, director, agent, advisor or consultant,
including services as a member of the board of Advisors of the Company (such
service is described herein as maintaining or being involved in a  Business
Relationship  with the Company), then at the end of the first calendar month
from the Granting Date, the Option shall vest to the extent of one thirty-sixth
(1/36) of the Optioned Shares for each such one calendar month period that
elapses from the Granting Date. Notwithstanding the cancellation of the
Original Agreement, vesting shall begin on the effective date hereof. 

The
foregoing notwithstanding, this Option shall become immediately exercisable
with respect to all the Option Shares purchasable hereunder if while the
Optionee continues to maintain a Business Relationship with the Company in the
event of a change of control as defined herein. For purposes of this agreement
a  change in control  shall mean: (x) a merger or consolidation of the Company
with or into, or the acquisition of the Company by, another entity (y) the sale
of all or substantially all of the stock or assets of the Company in a
transaction or series of related transactions such that the stockholders of the
Company immediately prior to such event do not immediately after giving effect
to such event beneficially own voting securities representing in the aggregate
more than 80% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the
surviving entity or the entity purchasing such stock or assets (the  Surviving
Entity ) or the members of the Board of Directors of the Company immediately
prior to such event do not immediately after giving effect to such event
constitute a majority of the Board of Directors of the Surviving Entity.  

3                                                Termination of Business
Relationship.        If the Optionee ceases to
maintain a Business 

1  

Relationship with the Company (or any affiliated
corporation) for any reason, no further installments of this Option shall
become exercisable except as set forth in Section 2 above, and this Option
shall terminate 90 days after the date the Business Relationship ceases, but in
no event later than the scheduled expiration date. In such a case, the Optionee s
only rights to exercise options hereunder shall be those which are properly
exercisable before the termination of this Option, and the Optionee may
exercise this Option for the number of Option Shares which have vested and
become exercisable prior to the date of termination.  

4.                                             Death: Disability.        If the Optionee dies while involved in a
Business Relationship with the Company (or any affiliated corporation), this
Option may be exercised, to the extent of the number of Option Shares with
respect to which the Optionee could have exercised it on the date of his or her
death, by his or her estate, personal representative or beneficiary to whom
this Option has been assigned pursuant to Section 9, at any time within
180 days after the date of death, but not later than the scheduled expiration
date. If the Optionee s Business Relationship with the Company is terminated by
reason of his disability, this Option may be exercised, to the extent of the
number of Option Shares with respect to which the Optionee could have exercised
it on the date the Business Relationship was terminated, at any time within 180
days after the date of such termination, but not later than the scheduled
expiration date. At the expiration of such 180-day period or the scheduled
expiration date, whichever is the earlier, this Option shall terminate and the
only rights hereunder shall be those as to which the Option was properly
exercised before such termination. For the purposes of this Option, the term   disability  
shall mean  permanent and total disability  as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code or successor statute. 

5.                                             Partial Exercise.        Exercise of this Option up to the extent
above stated may be made in part at any time and from time to time within the
above limits, except that this Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a
share unless such exercise is with respect to the final installment of Option
Shares subject to this Option and a fractional share (or cash in lieu thereof)
must be issued to permit the Optionee to exercise completely such final
installment. Any fractional share with respect to which an installment of this
Option cannot be exercised because of the limitation contained in the preceding
sentence shall remain subject to this Option and shall be available for later
purchase by the Optionee in accordance with the terms hereof. 

6.                                               Payment of Price.        The Option price is payable in United States
dollars only and must be paid: 

a.                                          in cash or by personal check, or any
combination of the foregoing, equal in amount to the Option price; or 

b.                                         in the discretion of the Board of Directors,
in cash, by personal check, by delivery of shares of the Company s Common Stock
having a fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors) equal as
of the date of exercise to the Option price, by delivery of a personal recourse
promissory note, through the delivery of an assignment to the Company of a
sufficient amount of the proceeds from the sale of the Common Stock acquired
upon exercise of the Option and an authorization to the broker or selling agent
to pay that amount to the Company, which sale shall be at the Optionee s
direction at the time of exercise, or by any combination of the foregoing,
equal in amount to the Option Price. 

If the Optionee delivers shares of Common Stock held
by the Optionee (the   Old Stock )  to the Company in full or partial
payment of the option price, and the Old Stock so delivered is subject to
restrictions or limitations imposed by agreement between the Optionee and the
Company, the Common Stock received by the Optionee on the exercise of this
Option shall be subject to all  

2  

restrictions
and limitations applicable to the Old Stock to the extent that the Optionee paid
for such Commons Stock or Preferred Stock by delivery of Old Stock, in addition
to any restrictions or limitations imposed by this Agreement.  

7.                                          Agreement to Purchase for
Investment.        By acceptance of this
Option, the Optionee agrees that a purchase of Option Shares under this Option
will not be made with a view to their distribution, as that term is used in the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the   Securities  Act ), unless in the
opinion of counsel to the Company such distribution is in compliance with or
exempt from the registration and prospectus requirements of the Securities Act
and applicable state securities laws, and the Optionee agrees to sign a
certificate to such effect at the time of exercising this Option and agrees
that the certificate for the Option Shares so purchased may be inscribed with a
legend to ensure compliance with the Securities Act and applicable state
securities laws. 

8.                                          Method of Exercising Option.        Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, this Option may be exercised by written notice to the address of the
Company, at its Wilmington, Massachusetts office, in the form attached hereto
as Exhibit A. Such notice shall state the election to exercise this Option
and the number of Option Shares in respect of which it is being exercised and
shall be signed by the person or persons so exercising this Option. Such notice
shall be accompanied by payment of the full purchase price of such Option
Shares, and the Company or its transfer agent shall deliver a certificate or certificates
representing such Option Shares as soon as practicable after the notice shall
be received. The certificate or certificates for the Option shares as to which
this Option shall have been so exercised shall be registered in the name of the
person or persons so exercising this Option (or, if this Option shall be
exercised by the Optionee and if the Optionee shall so request in the notice
exercising this Option, shall be registered in the name of the Optionee and
another person jointly, with right of survivorship) and shall be delivered as
provided above to or upon the written order of the person or persons exercising
this Option. In the event this Option shall be exercised, pursuant to Section 4
hereof, by any person or persons other than the Optionee, such notice shall be
accompanied by appropriate proof of the right of such person or persons to
exercise this Option. All Option Shares that shall be purchased upon the
exercise of this Option as provided herein shall be fully paid and
nonassessable. 

9.                                          Option Not Transferable.    

a.                                          This Option is not transferable or assignable
except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. During the Optionee s
lifetime only the Optionee can exercise this Option. 

b.                                         In the event the Option Shares shall be community
property, and in the event of a divorce between the Optionee and said Optionee s
spouse, then any transfer of the Option Shares (whether to said Optionee s
spouse or otherwise), shall be a prohibited transfer. 

10.                                        No Obligation to Exercise Option.        The grant and acceptance of this Option
imposes no obligation on the Optionee to exercise it. 

11.                                        No Obligation to Continue
Business Relationship.        The Company and any
affiliated corporations are not, as a result of the grant and acceptance of
this Option, obligated in any manner to continue to maintain a Business
Relationship with the Optionee. 

12.                                        No       Rights as Stockholder
until Exercise.        The Optionee shall have no
rights as a stockholder with respect to the Option Shares subject to this
Agreement until a stock certificate therefor has been issued to the Optionee
and is fully paid for by the Optionee. No adjustment shall 

3  

be made, except adjustments for changes in
capitalization pursuant to Section 13 hereof, for dividends (whether in cash,
securities or other property) or distributions or other similar rights for
which the record date is prior this date such stock certificate is issued.  

13.                                        Capital Changes and Business
Successions.        It is the purpose of this
Option to encourage the Optionee to work for the best interests of the Company
and its stockholders. Because, for example, that might require the issuance of
a stock dividend or a merger with another corporation, the purpose of this
Option would not be served if such a stock dividend, stock split, merger or
similar occurrence would cause the Optionee s rights hereunder to be diluted or
terminated and thus be contrary to the Optionee s interest. Therefore, if the
Company is to be consolidated with or acquired by another entity in a merger,
sale of all or substantially all of the Company s assets or otherwise (an   Acquisition ), 
the Board or the board of directors of any entity assuming the obligations of
the Company hereunder (the   Successor Board ),  may, as to outstanding
Options, take one or more of the following actions: (i) make appropriate
provision for the continuation of such Options by substituting on an equitable
basis for the shares then subject to such Options the consideration payable
with respect to the outstanding shares of Common Stock in connection with the
Acquisition; or (ii) make appropriate provision for the continuation of
such Options by substituting on an equitable basis for the shares then subject
to such Options any equity securities of the successor corporation; or (iii) upon
written notice to the Optionee, provide that all Options must be exercised, to
the extent than exercisable, within a specified number of days of the date of
such notice, at the end of which period the Options shall terminate; or (iv) terminate
all Options in exchange for a cash payment equal to the excess of the fair
market value of the shares subject to such Options (to the extent then
exercisable) over the exercise price thereof; or (v) terminate all Options
in exchange for the right to participate in any stock option or other employee
benefit plan of any successor corporation (giving proper credit to any Optionee
for that portion of any Option which has otherwise vested and become
exercisable prior to the Acquisition). 

14.                                      Withholding Taxes.        The Optionee hereby agrees that the Company
may withhold from the Optionee s wages or other remuneration the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes attributable to the Optionee s
exercise of any installment of this Option. At the Company s discretion, the
amount required to be withheld may be withheld in cash from such wages or other
remuneration, or in kind from the Common Stock otherwise deliverable to the
Optionee on exercise of this Option. The Optionee further agrees that, if the
Company does not withhold an amount from the Optionee s wages or other
remuneration sufficient to satisfy the Company s withholding obligation, the
Optionee will reimburse the Company on demand, in cash, for the amount
underwithheld. 

15.                                        No Exercise of Option if
Engagement or Employment Terminated for Cause.        If the employment or engagement of the
Optionee is terminated for  Cause,  this Option shall terminate on the date of
such termination and this Option shall thereupon not be exercisable to any
extent whatsoever.   Cause   is conduct, as determined by the Board of
Directors, involving one or more of the following: (i) gross misconduct by
the Optionee which is materially injurious to the Company; or (ii) the
commission of an act of embezzlement, fraud or deliberate disregard of the rules or
polices of the Company which results in material economic loss, damage or
injury to the Company; or (iii) the unauthorized disclosure of any trade
secret or confidential information of the Company or any third party who has a
business relationship with the Company or a violation of any noncompetition
covenant or assignment of inventions obligation with the Company; or (iv) the
commission of an act which induces any customer or prospective customer of the
Company to break a contract with the Company or to decline to do business with
the Company; or (v) the conviction of the Optionee of a felony involving
any financial impropriety or which would materially interfere with the Optionee s
ability to perform his or her services or otherwise be injurious to the
Company; 

4  

or
(vi) the failure of the Optionee to perform in a material respect his or
her employment of engagement obligations without proper cause. In making such
determination, the Board of Directors shall act fairly and in good faith.  

16.                                        Stock Certificate Legend.        Because the Optionee is an  affiliate  of the
Company (as defined in Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act), all
stock certificates representing shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the
Option shall have affixed thereto legends substantially in the following form: 

The
shares represented by this certificate have not been registered under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Act ), and may not be sold,
transferred or assigned unless such shares are registered under the Act or an
opinion of counsel, satisfactory to the corporation, is obtained to the effect
that such sale, transfer or assignment is exempt from the registration
requirements of the Act.   

17.                                        Release.        Optionee, for itself and his/her respective
trustees and beneficiaries, hereby releases, remises and forever discharges
Focus Enhancements, Inc., its respective, subsidiaries, affiliates,
officers, directors, employees, agents, trustees, beneficiaries, successors and
assigns (collectively referred to hereinafter as  Company ) of and from any and
all claims, suits, demands, liabilities, sums, dues, actions and causes of
action that Optionee has had, now has, or can, shall or may have against
Company, or any of them, from the beginning of the world until this date
related to the Original Agreement ( Claims ). 

The Optionee hereby acknowledges and assumes all risk, chance, hazard,
likelihood or possibility, however large or remote, that the Claims may be or
become greater or more extensive than is now known, anticipated or expected,
that no promise or inducement has been made to the Optionee except the
consideration recited herein, and that in executing this Agreement the Optionee
does not rely on and will not claim reliance on any statement or representation
of the Company or any of them concerning the nature or extent of any Claims.  

From the date Optionee receives this Agreement, Optionee has twenty-two
(22) days to consider it. Should Optionee decide to sign the Agreement,
Optionee has seven (7) days following the signing to revoke the Agreement,
and the Agreement will not become effective and enforceable until that seven (7) day
revocation period has expired. Should Optionee either decide not to sign this
Agreement or should Optionee sign it and elect to revoke it during the seven- (7) day
period, then this Agreement shall be null and void.  

The Optionee acknowledges that by the signing hereof the Optionee admits
to reading and understanding each and every line and the contents and effect of
this Release, that the Optionee has had an opportunity to have this document
reviewed by an attorney and to give the Optionee legal advice pertaining to
this Agreement prior to the Optionee signing this Agreement, and that the
signing hereof is the free act and deed of the Optionee or her duly authorized
representative.  

18.                                      Governing Law.        This Agreement shall be governed by and
interpreted in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware. 

19.                                      Miscellaneous.    

a.                                               Notices.   Any notices or communication provided for
herein shall be given in writing by first class mail, electronic facsimile
transmission, or overnight courier service, which shall be in the case of the Optionee
to his or her residence, or to such other address as may be 

5  

designated by such Optionee.  

b.                                               Amendment of Agreement.   The provisions of this Agreement may be
waived, altered, amended, or repealed, in whole or in part, only on the written
consent of all parties to this Agreement. 

c.                                               Severability.   In the event that any provisions of this
Agreement shall be held to be invalid, the remaining Paragraphs shall remain in
full force and effect. 

d.                                               Attorney s Fees.   In the event of any dispute, claim,
arbitration or legal proceeding arising out of this Agreement, the successful
or prevailing party shall be entitled to reimbursement from the other of all
costs, expenses and attorney s fees. 

e.                                               Necessary Acts.   Each party agrees to perform any further acts
and execute and deliver any documents which may be reasonably necessary to
carry out provisions of this Agreement. 

f.                                                 Persons Bound.   This Agreement shall be binding upon the
parties hereto, their respective spouses, heirs, legatees, executors,
administrators, permitted transferees and legal successors. This Agreement
shall also be binding upon the distribution of any estate or trust which may be
a Optionee. At the request of the Company, any such transferees, distributees,
assignees, or successors in interest who shall be personally bound by this
Agreement shall execute a counterpart of this Agreement. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF the Company and the Optionee have caused this instrument to be
executed, as of the date first written above, and the Optionee whose signature
appears below acknowledges receipt of a copy of the 10A Prospectus and
acceptance of an original copy of this Agreement.  

EMPLOYEE  

FOCUS
  ENHANCEMENTS INC.  

Name  

By:  

Street
  Address  

City,
  State, Zip Code  

6  

</EX-10.52>

<EX-10.53>
 12
 a06-2037_1ex10d53.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.53   

FOCUS
ENHANCEMENTS, INC. 
EXECUTIVE 
RESTRICTED STOCK 
 AGREEMENT    

We are pleased
to notify you that FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the  Company )
hereby grants to you a restricted stock award ( Award ) under the Focus Enhancements, Inc.
Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) to receive the
shares of the Common Stock of the Company (the  Award Shares ) as described in
your Notice of Award of Restricted Stock and this Restricted Stock Agreement.  

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY
SET FORTH IN THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT, THE AWARD IS SUBJECT TO AND MAY BE
EXECUTED ONLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PLAN. 
ONLY CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN ARE SUMMARIZED IN THIS RESTRICTED
STOCK AGREEMENT.  THE TERMS OF THE PLAN
ARE INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE.  IN
THE EVENT OF ANY CONFLICT BETWEEN THE PROVISIONS IN THIS RESTRICTED STOCK
AGREEMENT AND THE PLAN, THE PROVISIONS IN THE PLAN SHALL GOVERN.  A COPY OF THE PLAN IS ATTACHED AND IS
AVAILABLE FOR YOUR INFORMATION FROM THE COMPANY.  

1.                 Grant
of Award .  Subject to the terms of
this Restricted Stock Agreement and the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you
the Award for that number of shares of restricted stock set forth in the Notice
of Award of Restricted Stock. 

2.                 Nontransferability
of Award and Shares .  The Award shall
not be transferable (including by sale, assignment, pledge or hypothecation)
other than by will or the laws of intestate succession.  The designation of a beneficiary does not
constitute a transfer.  You shall not sell,
transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the shares subject to the Award
until all vesting requirements have been met. 

3.                 Shareholder
Rights .  Except as provided in Section 2,
you shall have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company, including the
right to vote the shares and receive dividends and other distributions provided
that distributions in the form of stock shall be subject to the same
restrictions as the underlying restricted stock. 

4.                 Vesting
and Earning of Award . 

(a)                                     If you continue to
serve the Company as an employee, officer, or director (such service is
described herein as maintaining or being involved in a  Service Relationship 
with the Company), then the Award shall vest in accordance with the Notice of
Award of Restricted Stock. 

The foregoing
notwithstanding, this Award shall become immediately vested with respect to all
the Award Shares hereunder if while you continue to maintain a Service
Relationship with the Company a change of control as defined herein occurs.  For purposes of this Restricted Stock
Agreement a  change in control  shall mean: (i) any  person,  as such term
is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of  

1  

the Exchange
Act (other than the Company or any trustee or other fiduciary holding
securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company), is or becomes the  beneficial
owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or
indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 50% or more of the
combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; (ii) during
any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such
period constitute the Board of Directors, and any new director (other than a
director designated by a person who has entered into an agreement with the
Company to effect a transaction described in clause (i), (iii) or (iv) of
this definition) whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for
election by the Company s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least
two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were
directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for
election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at
least a majority thereof; (iii) the shareholders of the Company approve a
merger or consolidation of the Company with any other entity, other than (1) a
merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the
Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either
by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the
surviving entity) more than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately
after such merger or consolidation or (2) a merger or consolidation
effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar
transaction) in which no  person  (as hereinabove defined) acquires more than
50% of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities;
or (iv) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete
liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the
Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets.  

(b)                                    The Committee has sole
authority to determine whether and to what degree the Award has vested and been
earned and is payable and to interpret the terms and conditions of this
Restricted Stock Agreement and the Plan. 

5.                 Termination
of Employment .  In the event that
your Service Relationship with the Company is terminated for any reason, other
than death or disability as set forth in Section 6, and you have not yet
earned all or part of the Award pursuant to Section 4, then the Award, to
the extent not earned as of your termination date, shall be forfeited
immediately upon such termination, and you shall have no further rights with
respect to the Award or the Award Shares underlying that portion of the Award
that have not yet been earned and vested. 
You expressly acknowledge and agree that the termination of your Service
Relationship with the Company shall result in forfeiture of the Award and the
Award Shares to the extent the Award has not been earned and vested as of the
date of his termination of service or employment. 

6.                 Death
or Permanent Disability .  In the
event of a participant s retirement, death or disability prior to the end of
the Restriction Period for a participant who has satisfied the one year
employment requirement of Section 10(b)(2) of the Plan with respect
to an award prior to retirement, death or disability, or as otherwise
determined by the Committee, the participant, or the participant s estate,
shall be entitled to receive that proportion (to the nearest whole share) of 

2  

the number of shares subject to the award
granted as the number of months of the Restriction Period which have elapsed
since the award date to the date at which the participant s retirement, death
or disability occurs, bears to the total number of months in the Restriction
Period.  The participant s right to
receive any remaining shares shall be canceled and forfeited and the shares
will be deemed to be reacquired by the Company.  

7.                 Settlement
of Award .  The Company shall not be
obligated to deliver any shares hereunder for such period as may be required by
it in order to comply with applicable federal or state statutes, laws and
regulations. 

8.                 No
Acquired Rights .  You agree and
acknowledge that: 

(a)                                     the Plan is
discretionary in nature and that the Company can amend, cancel, or terminate it
at any time; 

(b)                                    the grant of this
Award under the Plan is voluntary and occasional and does not create any
contractual or other right to receive future grants of any Awards or benefits
in lieu of any Awards, even if Awards have been granted repeatedly in the past
and regardless of any reasonable notice period mandated under local law; 

(c)                                     the value of this
Award is an extraordinary item of compensation which is outside the scope of
your employment contract, if any; 

(d)                                    this Award is not part
of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but
not limited to, calculating termination, severance, resignation, redundancy,
end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension, retirement
benefits, or similar payments; 

(e)                                     this Award shall
expire upon termination of your Service Relationship with the Company for any
reason except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan and this
Restricted Stock Agreement; 

(f)                                       the future value of
the shares awarded under the Plan is unknown and cannot be predicted with
certainty; 

(g)                                    no claim or
entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the termination of this
Award or diminution in value of this Award or Award Shares purchased under the
Plan and you irrevocably release the Company from any such claim; and 

(h)                                    your participation in
the Plan shall not create a right to further employment with the Company and
shall not interfere with the ability of the Company to terminate your
employment relationship at any time, with or without cause. 

9.                 Tax
Withholding .  At the election of the
restricted stockholder, the withholding obligation may be satisfied: (a) through
payment in United States dollars in cash or check, (b) through the
restricted stockholder s surrender of shares of Common Stock that the
restricted stockholder had owned for more than six (6) months prior to the
date of such transfer, (c) 

3  

through the Company s retention of shares of
Common Stock which would otherwise be issued as a result of the exercise of the
option or the award of the restricted stock.  

10.               Fractional
Award Shares .  In the event that the Award is settled in shares as set
forth in Section 7 and in the event that you are vested in a fractional
portion of an Award Share (a    Fractional Portion   ), such Fractional Portion
shall not be converted into a share or issued to you.  Instead, the
Fractional Portion shall remain unconverted until the final vesting date for
the Award Shares;   provided, however,  
if a subsequent Fractional Portion        is received by you prior
to the final vesting date for the Award Shares, it may be added to an existing    Fractional
Portion    accrued by you     under this Award such that the
resulting sum would be equal to or greater than a    whole        Share,
then such Fractional Portions shall be converted into one share;   provided, further,   that following such
conversion, any remaining Fractional Portion shall remain unconverted.  Upon the final vesting date, the value of any
remaining Fractional Portion(s) shall be paid in cash to you at the same time
as the conversion of the remaining Award Shares. 

11.               Certificates .
As soon as practicable after the Notice of Award of Restricted Stock, the
Company shall issue stock certificates or request its transfer agent to hold
the shares in restricted book entry format with respect to the Award Shares
which will be registered in your name, and shall bear whatever legend or
restriction the Committee shall determine. Such Award Shares shall be held by
the Company or its transfer agent pending vesting. To the extent the Award
Shares become vested, the Company shall promptly provide you (or in the case of
your death, your designated beneficiary) the certificates for the appropriate
number of shares of Common Stock. 

12.               Administration .  The authority to construe and interpret this
Restricted Stock Agreement and the Plan, and to administer all aspects of the
Plan, shall be vested in the Committee (as such term is defined in the Plan),
and the Committee shall have all powers with respect to this Restricted Stock
Agreement as are provided in the Plan. 
Any interpretation of the Restricted Stock Agreement by the Committee
and any decision made by it with respect to the Restricted Stock Agreement is
final and binding. 

13.               Adjustments
Upon Changes in Capitalization .  In
the event of any change in the outstanding Common Stock of the Company by
reason of stock dividends, recapitalization, mergers, consolidations, split-up,
combinations or exchanges of shares and the like, the aggregate number or class
of shares subject to this Award immediately prior to such event shall be
appropriately adjusted by the Board of Directors in accordance with the terms of
the Plan, and such adjustment shall be conclusive. 

14.               Superseding
Agreement; Binding Effect .  This
Restricted Stock Agreement supersedes any statements, representations or
agreements of the Company with respect to the grant of the Award or any related
rights, and you hereby waive any rights or claims related to any such
statements, representations or agreements. 
This Restricted Stock Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to
the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective executors, administrators,
next-of-kin, successors and assigns. 

4  

15.               Governing
Law .  Except as otherwise provided in
the Plan or herein, this Restricted Stock Agreement shall be construed and
enforced according to the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the
conflict of laws provisions of any state. 

16.               Amendment
and Termination; Waiver .  Subject to
the terms of the Plan, this Restricted Stock Agreement may be modified or
amended only by the written agreement of the parties hereto.  The waiver by the Company of a breach of any
provision of the Restricted Stock Agreement by you shall not operate or be
construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by you. 

17.               Notices .  Except as may be otherwise provided by the
Plan, any written notices provided for in this Restricted Stock Agreement or
the Plan shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficiently given if either
hand delivered or if sent by fax or overnight courier, or by postage paid first
class mail.  Notices sent by mail shall
be deemed received three business days after mailed but in no event later than
the date of actual receipt.  Notice may
also be provided by electronic submission, if and to the extent permitted by the
Committee.  Notices shall be directed, if
to you, at your address indicated by the Company s records, or if to the
Company, at the Company s principal office, attention Secretary. 

18.               Severability .  The provisions of this Restricted Stock
Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions may be determined to
be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining
provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable. 

19.               Counterparts;
Further Instruments . This Restricted Stock Agreement may be executed in two
or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of
which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.  The parties hereto agree to execute such
further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary
to carry out the purposes and intent of this Restricted Stock Agreement. 

5  

In signing
below, you hereby agree to the terms of this Restricted Stock Agreement and the
Plan and acknowledge receipt of a copy of the Plan.  

EMPLOYEE:  

(signature)  

Name:  

(print)  

Address:  

6  

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.54>
 13
 a06-2037_1ex10d54.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.54   

EXECUTIVE 
NONSTATUTORY STOCK OPTION 
 ACCEPTANCE LETTER    

We are pleased to notify
you that FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the  Company )
hereby grants to you a nonstatutory option ( Option ) under the Focus
Enhancements, Inc. 2002 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (the  Plan ) to
purchase all or any part of the shares (although no fractional shares may be
purchased) of the Common Stock of the Company (the  Optioned Shares ) as
described in your Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement which
this letter is incorporated into and made part of (the Notice and this Letter,
collectively, the  Acceptance Letter ). 
A Nonstatutory Stock Option shall mean an option not described in Section 422
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, (the  Code ).  

This Option cannot be
exercised unless you first sign this document in the place provided and return
it to the Secretary of the Company, Gary Williams.  However, your signing and delivering this
letter will not bind you to purchase any of the shares subject to the
Option.  Your obligation to purchase
shares can arise only when you exercise this Option in the manner set forth in
Paragraph 1 below.  

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET
FORTH IN THIS ACCEPTANCE LETTER, THIS OPTION IS SUBJECT TO AND MAY BE
EXERCISED ONLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PLAN. 
ONLY CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN ARE SUMMARIZED IN THIS LETTER.  A COPY OF THE PLAN IS ATTACHED AND IS
AVAILABLE FOR YOUR INFORMATION FROM THE COMPANY.  

1.                 Term
of Option and Exercise of Option . 
Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the terms and conditions of
this Acceptance Letter, this Option can be exercised by you during a period of
ten (10) years from the Grant Date. 

Any portion of this
Option that you do not exercise shall accumulate and can be exercised by you at
any time prior to the expiration of ten (10) years from the Grant Date.  

This Option may be
exercised by delivering to the Secretary of the Company full consideration for
an amount equal to the total option price of such shares, and a written notice
in a form satisfactory to the Company, signed by you specifying the number of
options you then desire to exercise.  

Upon receipt of your
notice to exercise options, the Company will advise you of any additional
amount which may be due for federal and state taxes on the difference between
your option price and the current fair market value of the Company s stock on
the exercise date.  

Certificates for shares
so purchased will be issued as soon as practicable, but no fractional shares
shall be delivered.  As a holder of an
Option, you shall have the rights of a shareholder with respect to the shares
subject to this Option only after such shares shall have been issued to you
upon the exercise of this Option.  

The Company shall not be
obligated to deliver any shares hereunder for such period as may be required by
it with reasonable diligence to comply with applicable federal or state
statutes, laws and regulations.  

2.                 Vesting
of Options .  If you continue to serve
the Company as an employee, officer, director, agent, advisor or consultant,
including services as a member of the board of advisors of the Company (such
service is described herein as maintaining or being involved in a  Business
Relationship  with the Company), then the Option shall vest in accordance with
the Notice of Grant of Stock Options. 

The foregoing
notwithstanding, this Option shall become immediately exercisable with respect
to all the Option Shares purchasable hereunder if while the Optionee continues
to maintain a Business Relationship with the Company in the event of a change
of control as defined herein.  For
purposes of this agreement a  change in control  shall mean: (x) a merger or
consolidation of the Company with or into, or the acquisition of the Company
by, another entity (y) the sale of all or substantially all of the stock or
assets of the Company in a transaction or series of related transactions such
that the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such event do not
immediately after giving effect to such event beneficially own voting
securities representing in the aggregate more than 50% of the combined voting
power of the voting securities of the surviving entity or the entity purchasing
such stock or assets (the  Surviving Entity ) or the members of the Board of
Directors of the Company immediately prior to such event do not immediately
after giving effect to such event constitute a majority of the Board of
Directors of the Surviving Entity.  

3.                 Termination
of Business Relationship .  Except as
set forth in this Letter and the Plan, if your Business Relationship with the
Company is terminated for any reason other than death or permanent disability,
this Option may be exercised within ninety (90) days of such event to the
extent that it was vested on the date of termination, but in no event may this
Option be exercised after ten (10) years from the Grant Date.  

4.                 Death
or Permanent Disability .  If you die
or are permanently disabled while employed by the Company, this Option shall be
immediately and automatically accelerated and become fully vested and all
unexercised options shall be exercisable in whole or in part by the duly
authorized executor of your last Will or by the duly authorized administrator
or special administrator of your estate as the case may be within a period of
one (1) year, or for such longer period as the board may fix, but in no
event after ten (10) years from the Grant Date.  Your estate shall mean yourself or your legal
representative or any person who acquires the right to exercise an option, as
the case may be, by reason of your death or permanent disability. 

5.                 Non-transferability
of Option .  This Option shall not be
transferable except by Will or the laws of descent and distribution, and this
Option may be exercised during your lifetime only by you.  Any purported transfer or assignment of this
Option shall be void and of no effect, and shall give the Company the right to
terminate this Option as of the date of such purported transfer or assignment. 

6.                 Method
of Exercise .  This Option may be
exercised with respect to all or any part of any vested options by giving the
Company written notice of such exercise This written notice 

2  

must be accompanied by payment, which may be (a) in United States
dollars in cash or by check, (b) in whole or in part shares of the Common
Stock of the Company already owned by the person or persons exercising the
option or (c) through the delivery of an assignment to the Company of a
sufficient amount of the proceeds from the sale of shares at the time of such
exercise.  

As soon as practical
after receipt of such notice, and payment of any taxes due, the Company shall,
without transfer or issue tax or other incidental expense to you or your
successor, transfer and deliver thereto at the office of the Company or such
other place as may be mutually agreeable a certificate or certificates for such
shares of its common stock; provided, however, that the time of such delivery
may be postponed by the Company for such period as may be required for it with
reasonable diligence to comply with applicable registration requirements under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, any applicable listing
requirements of any national securities exchange, and requirements under any
other laws or regulations applicable to the issuance or transfer of such
shares.  

7.                 Adjustments
Upon Changes in Capitalization .  In
the event of any change in the outstanding Common Stock of the Company by
reason of stock dividends, recapitalization, mergers, consolidations, split-up,
combinations or exchanges of shares and the like, the aggregate number or class
of shares subject to this Option immediately prior to such event shall be
appropriately adjusted by the Board of Directors in accordance with the terms
of the Plan, and such adjustment shall be conclusive. 

8.                 Tax
Status .  Your treatment of shares
purchased pursuant to the exercise of the Option thereafter may have
significant tax consequences.  The
Company may withhold from your wages or other remuneration the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes attributable to your exercise of any
installment of this Option.  You may wish
to consult your tax advisor with respect to the tax consequences to you upon
exercise of the Option or sale of the stock that you acquire pursuant to this
Option. 

9.                 No
Exercise of Option if Engagement or Employment Terminated for Cause .   If
your Business Relationship is terminated for  Cause,  this Option shall
terminate on the date of such termination and this Option shall thereupon not
be exercisable to any extent whatsoever. 
  Cause   is conduct, as determined by the Board of Directors,
involving one or more of the following:  (i) gross
misconduct by you that is materially injurious to the Company; or (ii) the
commission of an act of embezzlement, fraud or deliberate disregard of the rules or
polices of the Company that results in material economic loss, damage or injury
to the Company; or (iii) the unauthorized disclosure of any trade secret or
confidential information of the Company or any third party who has a business
relationship with the Company or a violation of any noncompetition covenant or
assignment of inventions obligation with the Company; or (iv) the
commission of an act (other than voluntary resignation)  that induces any customer or prospective
customer of the Company to break a contract with the Company or to decline to
do business with the Company; or (v) the conviction of you of a felony
involving any financial impropriety or which would materially interfere with
your ability to perform your services or otherwise be injurious to the Company;
or (vi) your failure to follow any material policy or material
instructions of the Company, your supervisor or the Company s CEO provided such
are 

3  

lawful and not a violation of public policy. In making such
determination, the Board of Directors shall act fairly and in good faith.  

In signing below, you
hereby agree to the terms of this Acceptance Letter and the Plan and
acknowledge receipt of a copy of the Plan.  

EMPLOYEE:  

(signature)  

Name:  

(print)  

Address:  

4  

</EX-10.54>

<EX-10.55>
 14
 a06-2037_1ex10d55.htm
 MATERIAL CONTRACTS

Exhibit 10.55   

FOCUS
ENHANCEMENTS, INC. 
EXECUTIVE 
RESTRICTED STOCK 
 AGREEMENT    

We are pleased
to notify you that FOCUS ENHANCEMENTS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the  Company )
hereby grants to you a restricted stock award ( Award ) under the Focus Enhancements, Inc.
2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) to receive the shares of the Common
Stock of the Company (the  Award Shares ) as described in your Notice of Award
of Restricted Stock and this Restricted Stock Agreement.  

EXCEPT AS
EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT, THE AWARD IS SUBJECT TO
AND MAY BE EXECUTED ONLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PLAN.  ONLY CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE PLAN ARE
SUMMARIZED IN THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT. 
THE TERMS OF THE PLAN ARE INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE.  IN THE EVENT OF ANY CONFLICT BETWEEN THE
PROVISIONS IN THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT AND THE PLAN, THE PROVISIONS IN
THE PLAN SHALL GOVERN.  A COPY OF THE
PLAN IS ATTACHED AND IS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR INFORMATION FROM THE COMPANY.  

1.                 Grant
of Award .  Subject to the terms of
this Restricted Stock Agreement and the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you
the Award for that number of shares of restricted stock set forth in the Notice
of Award of Restricted Stock. 

2.                 Nontransferability
of Award and Shares .  The Award shall
not be transferable (including by sale, assignment, pledge or hypothecation)
other than by will or the laws of intestate succession.  The designation of a beneficiary does not
constitute a transfer.  You shall not
sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the shares subject to the
Award until all vesting requirements have been met. 

3.                 Shareholder
Rights .  Except as provided in Section 2,
you shall have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company, including the
right to vote the shares and receive dividends and other distributions provided
that distributions in the form of stock shall be subject to the same
restrictions as the underlying restricted stock. 

4.                 Vesting
and Earning of Award . 

(a)                                     If you continue to
serve the Company as an employee, officer, or director (such service is
described herein as maintaining or being involved in a  Service Relationship 
with the Company), then the Award shall vest in accordance with the Notice of
Award of Restricted Stock. 

The foregoing
notwithstanding, this Award shall become immediately vested with respect to all
the Award Shares hereunder if while you continue to maintain a Service
Relationship with the Company a change of control as defined herein occurs.  For purposes of this Restricted Stock
Agreement a  change in control  shall mean: (i) any  person,  as such term
is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of  

1  

the Exchange
Act (other than the Company or any trustee or other fiduciary holding
securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company), is or becomes the  beneficial
owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or
indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 50% or more of the
combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities; (ii) during
any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such
period constitute the Board of Directors, and any new director (other than a
director designated by a person who has entered into an agreement with the
Company to effect a transaction described in clause (i), (iii) or (iv) of
this definition) whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for
election by the Company s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least
two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were
directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for
election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at
least a majority thereof; (iii) the shareholders of the Company approve a
merger or consolidation of the Company with any other entity, other than (1) a
merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the
Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either
by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the
surviving entity) more than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately
after such merger or consolidation or (2) a merger or consolidation
effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar
transaction) in which no  person  (as hereinabove defined) acquires more than
50% of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities;
or (iv) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete
liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the
Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets.  

(b)                                    The Committee has sole
authority to determine whether and to what degree the Award has vested and been
earned and is payable and to interpret the terms and conditions of this
Restricted Stock Agreement and the Plan. 

5.                 Termination
of Employment .  In the event that
your Service Relationship with the Company is terminated for any reason, other
than death or disability as set forth in Section 6, and you have not yet
earned all or part of the Award pursuant to Section 4, then the Award, to
the extent not earned as of your termination date, shall be forfeited
immediately upon such termination, and you shall have no further rights with
respect to the Award or the Award Shares underlying that portion of the Award
that have not yet been earned and vested. 
You expressly acknowledge and agree that the termination of your Service
Relationship with the Company shall result in forfeiture of the Award and the
Award Shares to the extent the Award has not been earned and vested as of the
date of his termination of service or employment. 

6.                 Death
or Permanent Disability .  If your
Service Relationship with the Company is terminated due to death or disability
before the first anniversary of the Award Date, the entire Award is
forfeited.  If your employment with the
Company is terminated due to death or disability after the first anniversary of
the Award Date, a pro-rata portion of the Award Shares, to the extent that the
Award Shares are partially vested on the termination date, will be converted 

2  

into Shares and issued to you or your legal
representatives, beneficiaries, or heirs, as the case may be.  In determining the pro-rata portion of the
Award Shares that are vested on the termination date, the Committee will
consider the number of months worked by you during the 12-calendar month period
immediately preceding the next anniversary of the Award Date under the
following formula:  

Number of Award Shares scheduled to vest on the next
  anniversary of the Award Date  

multiplied by  

[Number of calendar months worked by you during the
  12-month period immediately prior to the next anniversary of the Award Date]
  divided by 12  

You will be deemed
to have worked a calendar month if you have worked any portion of that
month.  The Committee s determination of
vested Award Shares shall be in whole Award Shares only and shall be binding on
you.  

7.                 Settlement
of Award .  The Company shall not be
obligated to deliver any shares hereunder for such period as may be required by
it in order to comply with applicable federal or state statutes, laws and
regulations. 

8.                 No
Acquired Rights .  You agree and
acknowledge that: 

(a)                                     the Plan is
discretionary in nature and that the Company can amend, cancel, or terminate it
at any time; 

(b)                                    the grant of this
Award under the Plan is voluntary and occasional and does not create any
contractual or other right to receive future grants of any Awards or benefits
in lieu of any Awards, even if Awards have been granted repeatedly in the past
and regardless of any reasonable notice period mandated under local law; 

(c)                                     the value of this
Award is an extraordinary item of compensation which is outside the scope of
your employment contract, if any; 

(d)                                    this Award is not part
of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but
not limited to, calculating termination, severance, resignation, redundancy,
end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension, retirement
benefits, or similar payments; 

(e)                                     this Award shall
expire upon termination of your Service Relationship with the Company for any
reason except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan and this
Restricted Stock Agreement; 

(f)                                       the future value of
the shares awarded under the Plan is unknown and cannot be predicted with
certainty; 

(g)                                    no claim or
entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the termination of this
Award or diminution in value of this Award or Award Shares purchased under the
Plan and you irrevocably release the Company from any such claim; and 

3  

(h)                                    your participation in
the Plan shall not create a right to further employment with the Company and
shall not interfere with the ability of the Company to terminate your
employment relationship at any time, with or without cause. 

9.                 Tax
Withholding . 

(a)              The
Company will assess its requirements regarding tax, social security, and other
applicable taxes ( Tax Items ) in connection with the Award. These requirements
may change from time to time as laws or interpretations change. Regardless of
the Company s actions in this regard, you acknowledge and agree that the
ultimate liability for Tax Items is your responsibility.  You acknowledge and agree that the Company
and/or your employer: 

(i)               make
no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Items in
connection with any aspect of the Award, including the subsequent sale of Award
Shares acquired under the Plan; and 

(ii)              do
not commit to structure the terms of the Award or any aspect of the Award to
reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax Items. 

(b)              Prior
to the settlement of the Award, you must pay or make adequate provisions for
the withholding of Tax Items.  You
authorize the Company to collect the Tax Items by withholding from the delivery
of the Award Shares a whole number of shares with a value equal to or in excess
of the minimum withholding obligation for Tax Items. The amount withheld in
excess of the minimum withholding obligation for Tax Items should not exceed
the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the vesting date.  The Company or your employer will remit the
total amount withheld for Tax Items to the appropriate tax authorities. You
shall pay to the Company or your employer any amount of any Tax Items that the
Company or your employer may be required to withhold as a result of
participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously
described. 

10.               Fractional
Award Shares .  In the event that the Award is settled in shares as set
forth in Section 7 and in the event that you are vested in a fractional
portion of an Award Share (a    Fractional Portion   ), such Fractional Portion
shall not be converted into a share or issued to you.  Instead, the
Fractional Portion shall remain unconverted until the final vesting date for
the Award Shares;   provided, however,  
if a subsequent Fractional Portion        is received by you prior
to the final vesting date for the Award Shares, it may be added to an existing    Fractional
Portion    accrued by you     under this Award such that the
resulting sum would be equal to or greater than a    whole        Share,
then such Fractional Portions shall be converted into one share;   provided, further,   that following such
conversion, any remaining Fractional Portion shall remain unconverted.  Upon the final vesting date, the value of any
remaining Fractional Portion(s) shall be paid in cash to you at the same time
as the conversion of the remaining Award Shares. 

11.               Certificates .
As soon as practicable after the Notice of Award of Restricted Stock, the
Company shall issue stock certificates or request its transfer agent to hold
the shares in restricted book entry format with respect to the Award Shares
which will be registered in your name, and shall bear whatever legend or
restriction the Committee shall determine. Such Award Shares shall be held by
the Company or its transfer agent pending vesting. To the extent the 

4  

Award Shares become vested, the Company shall
promptly provide you (or in the case of your death,  your designated beneficiary) the certificates
for the appropriate number of shares of Common Stock.  

12.               Administration .  The authority to construe and interpret this
Restricted Stock Agreement and the Plan, and to administer all aspects of the
Plan, shall be vested in the Committee (as such term is defined in the Plan),
and the Committee shall have all powers with respect to this Restricted Stock
Agreement as are provided in the Plan. 
Any interpretation of the Restricted Stock Agreement by the Committee
and any decision made by it with respect to the Restricted Stock Agreement is
final and binding. 

13.               Adjustments
Upon Changes in Capitalization .  In
the event of any change in the outstanding Common Stock of the Company by
reason of stock dividends, recapitalization, mergers, consolidations, split-up,
combinations or exchanges of shares and the like, the aggregate number or class
of shares subject to this Award immediately prior to such event shall be
appropriately adjusted by the Board of Directors in accordance with the terms
of the Plan, and such adjustment shall be conclusive. 

14.               Superseding
Agreement; Binding Effect .  This
Restricted Stock Agreement supersedes any statements, representations or
agreements of the Company with respect to the grant of the Award or any related
rights, and you hereby waive any rights or claims related to any such
statements, representations or agreements. 
This Restricted Stock Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to
the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective executors,
administrators, next-of-kin, successors and assigns. 

15.               Governing
Law .  Except as otherwise provided in
the Plan or herein, this Restricted Stock Agreement shall be construed and
enforced according to the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the
conflict of laws provisions of any state. 

16.               Amendment
and Termination; Waiver .  Subject to
the terms of the Plan, this Restricted Stock Agreement may be modified or
amended only by the written agreement of the parties hereto.  The waiver by the Company of a breach of any
provision of the Restricted Stock Agreement by you shall not operate or be
construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by you. 

17.               Notices .  Except as may be otherwise provided by the
Plan, any written notices provided for in this Restricted Stock Agreement or
the Plan shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficiently given if either
hand delivered or if sent by fax or overnight courier, or by postage paid first
class mail.  Notices sent by mail shall be
deemed received three business days after mailed but in no event later than the
date of actual receipt.  Notice may also
be provided by electronic submission, if and to the extent permitted by the
Committee.  Notices shall be directed, if
to you, at your address indicated by the Company s records, or if to the
Company, at the Company s principal office, attention Secretary. 

18.               Severability .  The provisions of this Restricted Stock
Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions may be determined to
be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining
provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable. 

5  

19.               Counterparts;
Further Instruments . This Restricted Stock Agreement may be executed in two
or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of
which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.  The parties hereto agree to execute such
further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Restricted Stock
Agreement. 

In signing
below, you hereby agree to the terms of this Restricted Stock Agreement and the
Plan and acknowledge receipt of a copy of the Plan.  

EMPLOYEE:  

(signature)  

Name:  

(print)  

Address:  

6  

</EX-10.55>

<EX-23.1>
 15
 a06-2037_1ex23d1.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

Exhibit 23.1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We hereby consent to the incorporation by
reference in the Registration Statements on Forms S-3 (Nos. 333-126629,
333-130217, 333-104568, 333-108134, 333-121206 and 333-115013) and Forms S-8
(Nos. 333-123593, 333-89770, 333-57762, 333-33243, 333-104734, 333-116031 and
333-130215) of Focus Enhancements, Inc. of our report ( which
contains an explanatory paragraph relating to the Company s ability to continue
as a going concern as described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements)  dated February 20,
2006 relating to the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2005, which appears in this Form 10-K. 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 16
 a06-2037_1ex23d2.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

Exhibit 23.2   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following
Registration Statements of our report dated March 15, 2005, relating to the
financial statements of Focus Enhancements, Inc. (which report expresses an
unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the
substantial doubt about the Company s ability to continue as a going concern)
appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Focus Enhancements, Inc. for
the year ended December 31, 2005:  

Registration Statement No. 333-116031 on Form S-8  

  Registration Statement No. 333-130215 on Form S-8  

  Registration Statement No. 333-123593 on Form S-8  

  Registration Statement No. 333-126629 on Form S-3  

  Registration Statement No. 333-130217 on Form S-3  

  Registration Statement No. 333-89770 on Form S-8  

  Registration Statement No. 333-57762 on Form S-8  

  Registration Statement No. 333-33243 on Form S-8  

  Registration Statement No. 333-104734 on Form S-8  

  Registration Statement No. 333-104568 on Form S-3  

  Registration Statement No. 333-108134 on Form S-3  

  Registration Statement No. 333-121206 on Form S-3/A  

  Registration Statement No.   333-115013 on Form S-3/A            

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP  

San Jose, California  

  March 30, 2006  

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 17
 a06-2037_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1   

Certification of the Principal Executive Officer 
(Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)   

I, Brett Moyer, certify that:  

1.        I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Focus Enhancements, Inc.; 

2.        Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.        Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for,
the periods presented in this report; 

4.        The
registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have: 

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;  

5.        The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s Board of
Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and  

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/
  Brett A. Moyer  

Brett
  A. Moyer  

Chief
  Executive Officer  

and
  President  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 18
 a06-2037_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2   

Certification of the Principal Financial Officer 
(Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002)   

I, Gary L. Williams, certify that:  

1.        I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Focus Enhancements, Inc.; 

2.        Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.        Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.        The
registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have: 

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls
and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

(c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;  

5.        The
registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s Board of
Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and  

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/
  Gary L. Williams  

Gary
  L. Williams  

Secretary
  and Chief Financial  

Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 19
 a06-2037_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1   

CEO
CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the Annual
Report of Focus Enhancements, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date here (the  Report ), I, Brett Moyer, Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant
to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

(1)  The Report fully complies with the
requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934; and  

(2)  The information contained in
the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
and result of operations of the Company.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 20
 a06-2037_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.2   

CFO
CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the Annual
Report of Focus Enhancements, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date here (the  Report ), I, Gary L. Williams, Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
  1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, that:  

(1)  The Report fully complies with the
requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934; and  

(2)  The information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result
of operations of the Company.  

</EX-32.2>

