<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_917259_0001104659-06-021362_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1660858</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>133050</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2466</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1100254</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>34</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021362.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331165711
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021362
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION LP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000917259
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				133750642
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-25000
		FILM NUMBER:		06729712

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6TH FL, SOUTH TOWER, M L WORLD HDQR
		STREET 2:		C/O ML FUTURES INVESTMENT PARTNERS INC
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10080-6106
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2122364161

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		C/O MERRILL LYNCH INVESTMENT PARTNERS IN
		STREET 2:		WORLD FINANCIAL CENTER S TOWER 6TH FL
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10080-6106

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION PLUS LP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940616

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SECTOR STRATEGY FUND VII LP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940107

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Eon2ISV+ITWhwczJVjzfFREVxBM6N+frjAWq4Iq9acuUc9CGicprT56ojwXYOaDd
 ER9mZPCwMzf9xSUB+nPacA==

 0001104659-06-021362.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-7497_510k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

Washington, D.C. 20549   

FORM 10-K   

Commission file number:  0-25000   

ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION L.P.   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Delaware   

13-3750642 (Registrant)   

(State or other jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or organization)  

Identification No.)  

c/o Merrill Lynch Alternative Investments LLC   

   Princeton Corporate Campus   

   800 Scudders Mill Road   Section 2-G   

   Plainsboro, New Jersey 08536   

  (Address of principal executive offices)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:    (609) 282-6996    

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
  None    

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   Limited
Partnership Units    

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined by Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.  

Yes    o     No      

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
15 (d) of the Act.  

Yes    o     No      

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  

Yes          No   o  

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Check one:  

Large accelerated filer    o  

Accelerated filer    o  

Non-accelerated filer       

Indicate by check mark
whether registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of
the Act).  

Yes    o     No      

Indicate by check mark
whether registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  

Yes    o     No      

As of February 1,
2006, limited partnership units with an aggregate value of $10,357,809 were
outstanding and held by non-affiliates.  

Documents Incorporated by Reference   

The registrant s 2005
Annual Report and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, the
annual report to security holders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005,
is incorporated by reference into Part II, Item and Part IV hereof and filed as
an Exhibit herewith. The Annual Report is available free of charge by
contacting Merrill Lynch Alternative Investments Client Services at
1-877-465-8435.  

ML
PRINCIPAL PROTECTION L.P.   

ANNUAL REPORT FOR 2005 ON FORM 10-K  

Table of
Contents   

PART I   

Item 1.   

Business   

1  

Item 1A.    

Risk factors   

7  

Item 2.   

Properties   

9  

Item 3.   

Legal Proceedings   

9  

Item 4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
  Holders   

9  

PART II   

Item 5.   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
  Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

10  

Item 6.   

Selected Financial Data   

11  

Item 7.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
  Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

15  

Item 7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
  about Market Risk   

20  

Item 8.   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

21  

Item 9.   

Changes in and Disagreements with
  Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

21  

Item 9A.   

Controls and Procedures   

21  

Item 9B.   

Other Information   

21  

PART III   

Item 10.   

Directors and Executive Officers of the
  Registrant   

22  

Item 11.   

Executive Compensation   

23  

Item 12.   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
  Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

24  

Item 13.   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

24  

Item 14.   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

25  

PART IV   

Item 15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

26  

i  

PART I   

Item 1:         Business   

(a)               General Development
of Business : 

ML Principal Protection L.P. (the  Partnership ) was organized under
the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act on January 3, 1994 and
commenced trading activities on October 12, 1994. The Partnership engages
currently, through an investment in a limited liability company (see below) in
the speculative trading of a portfolio of futures options on futures and
forward contracts on a wide range of commodities. The Partnership s objective
is achieving, through speculative trading, substantial capital appreciation,
over time.  

Merrill Lynch Alternative Investments LLC ( MLAI ) is the general
partner of the Partnership and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Merrill Lynch
Investment Managers LP ( MLIM ) which, in turn, is an indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary of Merrill Lynch   Co. Inc. ( Merrill Lynch ). Prior to December
1, 2005, the general partner of the partnership was Merrill Lynch Investment
Managers LLC ( MLIM LLC ). Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith
Incorporated ( MLPF S ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Merrill Lynch, is the
Partnership s commodity broker.  

The multi-advisor
funds (the  Multi-Advisor Funds ) sponsored by MLAI allocate their assets to a
number of the same independent advisors (the  Advisors ). MLIM (the predecessor
general partner of the Partnership) consolidated the trading accounts of nine
of its Multi-Advisor Funds as of June 1, 1998. The consolidation was achieved
by having these Multi-Advisor Funds close their existing trading accounts and
invest in ML Multi-Manager Portfolio LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,
( MM LLC ) which opened a single account with each Advisor selected.  

Effective after
the close of business on December 31, 2004, MM LLC liquidated and the
Partnership invested in Global Horizons I L.P. formerly ML Global Horizons L.P.
( Global Horizons ). Global Horizons is a MLAI managed limited partnership that
has an investment strategy similar to MM LLC.  

The Units were sold in separate Series, each of which has its own Net
Asset Value. All Series trade pursuant to the same Advisor combination, but
because they begin trading at different times they have different Net Asset
Values and may have different percentages of their capital invested in Global Horizons.  

As of December 31, 2005, the Partnership s capitalization was
$10,232,424 and the Net Asset Value per Series 2005 Unit (the combined initial
Series of Units), originally $1.000 as of January 1, 2005, had fallen to $
0.9621.  

From January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2004, the highest month-end
Net Asset Value of a Series A Unit was  
$1.1504 (February 29, 2004) and the lowest was $1.0196 (March 31, 2003).  

Through December 31, 2002, the highest month-end Net Asset Value of a
Series A Unit before combination was $151.52 (adding back $29.50 in
Distributions) (December 31, 2002) and the lowest was $101.04 (December 31,
1994).  

The Partnership was a  principal protected  commodity pool. Merrill
Lynch provided the guarantee described below under Item 1(c),  Narrative
Description of Business   Merrill Lynch s  Principal Protection  Undertaking to
the Partnership  that all Units of any given Series will have a Net Asset Value
  after payment of all fixed-rate annual as well as discretionary distributions
on such Units, in the case of Units sold on or prior to May 1, 1997   of at
least their initial $100 subscription price as of a specified date after their
issuance (the  Principal Assurance Date  for such Series, seven years after
issuance for all outstanding Series sold before May 1, 1997 and five years
after issuance for all Series sold thereafter). This guarantee did not prevent
substantial losses, but rather serves only as a form of  stop loss,  limiting
the maximum loss which investors who retain their Units until such Units 
Principal Assurance Date can incur. In order to protect Merrill Lynch from any
liability under its guarantee, MLIM LLC imposed substantial opportunity costs
on the Partnership by deleveraging its trading, retaining a substantial portion
of the Partnership s assets in the Partnership rather than investing such
assets in for allocation to trading. If the Net Asset Value per Unit of a
Series declined to 110% or less of the present value of $100, plus any
fixed-rate annual distributions due on such Series, discounted back from the
Principal Assurance Date, MLIM LLC would terminate trading with respect to such
Series altogether in order to ensure that Merrill Lynch incurred no financial
obligation to the Partnership under Merrill Lynch s guarantee of the minimum
Net Asset Value per Unit of such Series. The Principal Assurance Dates for
Series A through S came to term on or before December 31, 2004 and were not
renewed. The  

above Series Units remain
outstanding, with 100% of their assets allocated to trading, without any  principal
protection  feature and no longer pay annual distributions.  

(b)               Financial
Information about Segments : 

The Partnership s business constitutes only one segment for financial
reporting purposes, i.e  .,   a speculative
commodity pool. The Partnership does not engage in sales of goods or services.  

(c)               Narrative
Description of Business : 

General    

The Partnership traded, through its investment in Global Horizons, in
futures, options on futures, and forwards contract in the major sectors of the
world economy with the objective of achieving substantial capital appreciation
over time. For the periods presented prior to the close of business on December
31, 2004, the Partnership traded its investments through MM LLC.  

MLAI is the Partnership s trading manager, with responsibility for
selecting Advisors to manage Global Horizon s assets, allocating and
reallocating Global Horizon s assets among different Advisors.  

Considered as a whole, the Partnership, through its investment in
Global Horizons (and former investment in MM LLC), trades in a diversified
range of international markets. Certain Advisors considered individually,
concentrate primarily on trading in a limited portfolio of markets. The
composition of the  sectors  included in the Partnership s portfolio varies
substantially over time.  

MLAI may, from time to time, direct certain individual Advisors to
manage their Partnership accounts as if they were managing more equity than the
actual capital allocated to them.  

One of the objectives of the Partnership is to provide diversification
for a limited portion of the risk segment of the Limited Partners  portfolios.
Commodity pool performance has historically often demonstrated a low degree of
performance correlation with traditional stock and bond holdings. Since it
began trading, the Partnership s returns have, in fact, frequently been
non-correlated with the United States stock and bond markets.  

2  

Merrill Lynch s  Principal Protection 
Undertaking to the Partnership    

Merrill Lynch agreed to contribute sufficient capital to the
Partnership so that it will have adequate funds, after adjusting for all
liabilities to third parties, that the Net Asset Value per Unit of each Series
will be no less than $100 as of the Principal Assurance Date for such Series
(after the payment of all distributions, if any, on Units of such Series). This
guarantee, which is effective with respect to any given Series as of the
Principal Assurance Date for such Series, is a guarantee only of a return of an
investor s initial investment (plus distributions, if any). It is not a
guarantee against the loss of the time value of such investment or a guarantee
of profit. The Principal Assurance Dates for Series A through S came to term on
or before December 31, 2004, respectively and were not renewed. Currently all
Units have no principal protection feature and no longer pay annual
distributions.  

Operation of a Series after its Principal
Assurance Date    

MLAI may determine to dissolve a Series as of its Principal Assurance
Date, to extend the Merrill Lynch guarantee for a certain period of time
(resetting the minimum Net Asset Value per Unit of such Series guaranteed by
Merrill Lynch) or to continue to operate such Series without a principal
protection feature. Series A through S continue to operate without the  principal
protection  feature.  

Consolidation of Series    

MLIM LLC after
making the previously announced distributions for Series F and prior to the opening
of business on January 2, 2003, consolidated those series that had come to term
on or before December 31, 2002 (Series A through F and K through N) into a new
series, Series A 2003, with a $1.00 per Unit Net Asset Value. The aggregate Net
Asset Value of each investor s new Units was equal to the aggregate Net Asset
Value of their original Units as of December 31, 2002. The consolidation had no
economic effect on the investors. MLIM LLC contributed $5,499 to the
Partnership, the amount necessary due to the effects of rounding, to insure all
investors received Units equal in value to their original holdings at December
31, 2002. The following is a listing of the number of new Series A 2003 Units
each investor received for each Unit of their original series holding.  

Immediately following the distribution announcement and prior to the
opening of business on January 2, 2004, Series G, H, and O through R, those
series that had come to term on or before December 31, 2003, but after December
31, 2002, were consolidated into a new series, Series 2004, with a $1.00 per
Unit Net Asset Value. The aggregate Net Asset Value of each investor s new
Units is equal to the aggregate Net Asset Value of their original Units at
December 31, 2003. The consolidation had no adverse economic effect on the
investors. MLIM LLC contributed $314 to the Partnership, the amount necessary
due to the effects of rounding to insure all investors received Units equal in
value to their original holdings at December 31, 2003. The following is a list
of the number of new Units each investor received of Series 2004 for each Unit
of their original series holding.  

3  

Prior to the opening of business on January 2, 2005, Series A 2003,
Series 2004 and Series S were consolidated into a new series, Series 2005, with
a $1.00 Unit Net Asset Value. The aggregate Net Asset Value of each investor s
new Units is equal to the aggregate Net Asset Value of their original Units at
December 31, 2004. The consolidation had no adverse economic effect on the
investors. MLIM LLC contributed $733 to the Partnership, the amount necessary
due to the effects of rounding, to insure that all investors received Units
equal in value to their original holdings at December 31, 2004. The issuance of
the new series was exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act of 1933. The following is a listing of the number of new Units each
investor received of Series 2005 for each Unit of their original series
holding.  

Use of Proceeds and Interest Income    

Market Sectors  . 

The Partnership trades, through its investment in Global Horizons (and
its former investment in MM LLC), in a diversified group of markets under the
direction of multiple independent Advisors. These Advisors can, and do, from
time to time, materially alter the allocation of their overall trading
commitments among different market sectors. Except in the case of certain
trading programs which are purposefully limited in the markets which they
trade, there is essentially no restriction on the commodity interests which may
be traded by any Advisor or the rapidity with which an Advisor may alter its
market sector allocations.  

Market Types  . 

The Partnership trades, through its investments in Global Horizons (and
its former investment in MM LLC),  on a
variety of United States and foreign futures exchanges. Substantially all of
the Partnership s off-exchange trading takes place in the highly liquid,
institutionally based currency forward markets.  

Many of the Partnership s currency trades are executed in
the spot and forward foreign exchange markets (the  FX Markets ) where there
are no direct execution costs. Instead, the participants, banks and dealers, in
the FX Markets take a  spread  between the prices at which they are prepared to
buy and sell a particular currency and such spreads are built into the pricing
of the spot or forward contracts with the Partnership. In its exchange of
futures for physical ( EFP ) trading, the Partnership acquires cash currency
positions through banks and dealers. The Partnership pays a spread when it
exchanges these positions for futures. This spread reflects, in part, the
different settlement dates of the cash and the futures contracts, as well as
prevailing interest rates, but also includes a pricing spread in favor of the
banks and dealers, which may include a Merrill Lynch entity.   

As in the case of its market sector allocations, the Partnership s
commitments to different types of markets   U.S. and non-U.S., regulated and
non-regulated   differ substantially from time to time as well as over time.  

4  

Custody of Assets  . 

All of the Partnership s assets are currently held in customer accounts
at MLPF S.  

Interest paid by Merrill Lynch on the
Partnership s U.S. Dollar and Non U.S. Dollar Assets    

All
of the Partnership s U.S. dollar assets invested in  Global Horizons were maintained at MLPF S. On assets held in
U.S. dollars, Merrill Lynch credited Global Horizons with interest at the prevailing 91-day U.S.
Treasury bill rate. Global Horizons was
credited with interest on any of its assets and net gains actually held by
Merrill Lynch in non-U.S. dollar currencies at a prevailing local rate received
by Merrill Lynch. Merrill Lynch may derive certain economic benefit, in excess
of the interest, which Merrill Lynch paid to Global Horizons from possession of such assets.  

Merrill Lynch charged the Partnership through Global Horizons, Merrill
Lynch s cost of financing realized and unrealized losses on Global
Horizons,  non-U.S. dollar-denominated
positions  .    

Prior to the opening of business on January 1, 2005, the Partnership
invested through MM LLC. MLPF S s and Merrill Lynch s arrangements with MM
LLC were similar to the arrangements with Global Horizons as outlined in the
preceding two paragraphs.  

Charges    

The following table summarizes the charges incurred by the Partnership
during 2005, 2004, and 2003 allocated from MM LLC.  

The Partnership s average month-end Net Assets during 2005, 2004, and
2003 equaled $11,368,154, $13,826,437, and $16,639,849, respectively.  

During 2005, the Partnership earned directly or primarily through its
investment in Global Horizons $353,414 in interest income, or approximately
3.11% of the Partnership s average month-end Net Assets. During 2004 and 2003,
the Partnership earned directly or primarily through its investment in MM LLC
$173,439 and $180,856 in interest income, or approximately 1.25% and 1.09% of
the Partnership s average month-end Net Assets.  

5  

Description of Current Charges   

Recipient   

Nature
  of Payment   

Amount
  of Payment   

MLPF S  

Brokerage Commissions  

A flat-rate monthly commission of up to 0.604 of 1% (a 7.25% annual
  rate) of the Partnership s month-end assets committed to trading.  

During 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Partnership paid round-turn
  commissions through its investment in Global Horizons and formerly MM LLC.
  The estimated aggregate round turn commission rate for Global Horizons for
  the year ended December 31, 2005 was $39. The estimated aggregate round turn
  commission rate for MM LLC for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 was
  $45 and $53, respectively.  

MLPF S  

Use of Partnership assets  

Merrill Lynch may derive certain economic benefit from the deposit of
  certain of the Partnership s U.S. dollar Available Assets.  

MLAI  

Administrative Fees  

The Partnership pays MLAI a monthly administrative fee equal to 0.021
  of 1% (a 0.25 of 1% annual rate) of the Partnership s month-end total assets.
  MLAI pays the Partnership s routine administrative costs.  

Other Counterparties  

Bid-ask spreads  

Bid-ask spreads on forward and related trades.  

Advisors  

Profit Shares  

All Advisors can receive quarterly or annual Profit Shares ranging
  from 20% to 25% (depending on the Advisor) of any New Trading Profit achieved
  by their Partnership account. Profit Shares are also paid upon the net
  reallocation of assets away from an Advisor and the redemption of Units. New
  Trading Profit is calculated separately in respect of each Advisor,
  irrespective of the overall performance of the Partnership. The Partnership
  may pay substantial Profit Shares during periods when it is incurring
  significant overall losses.  

Advisors  

Consulting Fees  

MLPF S pays the Advisors annual Consulting Fees ranging up to
  2.5% of the Partnership s average month-end assets allocated to them for
  management, after reduction for a portion of the brokerage commissions
  accrued with respect to such assets.  

MLPF  Others  

Extraordinary expenses  

Actual costs incurred; none paid to date.  

6  

Regulation    

MLAI, the Advisors and MLPF S are each subject to regulation by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ) and the National Futures
Association ( NFA ). Other than in respect of its periodic reporting
requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the registration of
the Units for continuous public distribution under the Securities Act of 1933,
the Partnership itself is generally not subject to regulation by the Securities
and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). However, MLAI itself is registered as an  investment
adviser  under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. MLPF S is also
regulated by the SEC and the National Association of Securities Dealers.  

(i) through (xii)   not applicable.  

(xiii)  The Partnership has no
employees.  

(d)              Financial
Information about Geographic Areas : 

The Partnership does not engage in material operations in foreign
countries, nor is a material portion of the Partnership s revenue derived from
customers in foreign countries. However, the Partnership trades through its
investment in Global Horizons (and formerly through MM LLC), on a number of
foreign commodity exchanges. The Partnership does not engage in the sales of
goods or services.  

Item 1A:  Risk
Factors    

Past      Performance Not Necessarily Indicative of Future Results   

Past performance is not necessarily indicative of
future results. Neither the Advisors  nor the Partnership s past performance
may be representative of how they or it, respectively, may trade in the future.  

Volatile Markets; Highly Leveraged Trading   

Futures and forward trading is highly leveraged, and
market price levels are volatile and materially affected by unpredictable
factors such as weather and governmental intervention. The combination of
leverage and volatility creates a high degree of risk.  

Substantial Charges   

The Partnership is subject to substantial charges.  

The incentive compensation paid to the Advisors is
based on the individual performance of each Advisor, not the overall
performance of the Partnership. Historically, the Partnership has paid
substantial incentive compensation to certain Advisors during periods when the
performance of the Partnership as a whole was breakeven or unprofitable.  

Importance   
  of General Market Conditions   

Overall market or economic conditions   which neither
MLAI (the  General Partner ) nor any Advisor can predict or control   have a
material effect on performance. Furthermore, such overall conditions can
adversely affect the performance of numerous Advisors at or about the same
time, despite their implementing different and independent strategies.
Consequently, the multi-Advisor structure of the Partnership does not assure
that its performance will not be adversely affected by future market or
economic conditions.  

Combining Independent Trading Strategies   

Combining independent trading strategies involves
substantial opportunity costs, as one Advisor s profits are frequently offset
by another Advisor s losses. Different Advisors often take opposite positions
for the Partnership, eliminating the profit potential of the combined
positions.  

Systematic   
  Strategies   

Most of the Partnership s assets have been allocated
since inception to Advisors which rely on technical, systematic strategies. The
widespread use of technical trading systems frequently results in numerous
managers attempting to execute similar trades at or about the same time,
altering trading patterns and affecting market liquidity. Furthermore, the  

7  

profit potential of trend-following systems may be
diminished by the changing character of the markets, which may make historical
price data (on which technical programs are based) only marginally relevant to
future market patterns.  

Discretionary   
  Strategies   

Certain of the Partnership s Advisors are
discretionary rather than systematic traders. Discretionary trading managers
may be prone to emotionalism and a lack of discipline in their trading. Relying
on subjective trading judgment may produce less consistent results than those
obtained by more systematic approaches.  

Increased   
  Assets Under Management   

There appears to be a tendency for the rates of return
achieved by managed futures advisors to decline as assets under management increase.
None of the Advisors has agreed to limit the amount of additional equity which
it may manage, and most of them are at or near their all-time high in assets
under management.  

No Assurance of Advisors  Continued Services;
Competition for Advisors   

There is no assurance that any Advisor will be willing
or able to continue to provide advisory services to the Partnership. There is
severe competition for the services of qualified Advisors, and the Partnership
may not be able to retain satisfactory replacement or additional Advisors on
acceptable terms. The General Partner must allocate Advisor availability among
its different partnerships for which the general partner has authority,
including the Partnership, and, accordingly, may not at all times select for
the Partnership those Advisors which the General Partner would otherwise
believe to be in its best interests.  

Changes in Trading Strategy   

An Advisor may make certain changes in its trading
strategies without the knowledge of the General Partner.  

Illiquid Markets   

Certain positions held by the Partnership may become
illiquid, preventing an Advisor from acquiring positions otherwise indicated by
its strategy or making it impossible for an Advisor to close out positions
against which the market is moving.  

Trading on Non-U.S. Exchanges   

The Advisors trade extensively on non-U.S. exchanges.
These exchanges are not regulated by any United States governmental agency. The
Partnership could incur substantial losses trading on foreign exchanges to
which it would not have been subject had the Advisors limited their trading to
U.S. markets.  

The profits and losses derived from trading foreign
futures and options will generally be denominated in foreign currencies;
consequently, the Partnership will be subject to a certain degree of
exchange-rate risk in trading such contracts.  

The Partnership Could Lose Assets and Have Its
Trading Disrupted Due to the Bankruptcy of Brokers   

The Partnership is subject to the risk of its clearing
broker, exchange or clearinghouse insolvency. Partnership assets could be lost
or impounded during lengthy bankruptcy proceedings. Were a substantial portion
of the Partnership s capital tied up in a bankruptcy, the General Partner might
suspend or limit trading, perhaps causing the Partnership to miss significant
profit opportunities. No Partnership managed by the General Partner has ever
lost any assets due to the bankruptcy or default of a broker, exchange or
clearinghouse, but there can be no assurance that this will not happen in the future.  

8  

Item 2:         Properties   

The Partnership does not use any physical properties in the conduct of
its business.  

The Partnership s offices are the offices of MLAI (Merrill Lynch
Alternative Investments LLC, Princeton Corporate Campus, 800 Scudders Mill Road
- - Section 2G, Plainsboro, New Jersey 08536). MLAI performs administrative
services for the Partnership from MLAI s offices.  

Item 3:         Legal
Proceedings   

Neither the Partnership MLIM LLC nor MLAI has ever been the subject of
material litigation. Merrill Lynch is the 100% indirect owner of MLAI, MLIM,
MLPF S and all other Merrill Lynch entities involved in the operation of
the Partnership. Merrill Lynch as well as certain of its subsidiaries and
affiliates have been named as defendants in civil actions, arbitration
proceedings and claims arising out of their respective business activities.
Although the ultimate outcome of these actions cannot be predicted at this time
and the results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, it is
the opinion of management that the result of these matters will not be
materially adverse to the business operations or financial condition of MLAI or
the Partnership.  

Item 4:         Submission of Matters to a
Vote of Security Holders   

None.  

9  

PART II   

Item 5:         Market
for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Securities   

Item 5(a)   

(a)               Market Information : 

There is no established public trading market for the Units, nor is it
anticipated that one will develop. Limited Partners may redeem Units as of the
end of each month at Net Asset Value, subject to certain early redemption
charges. Units redeemed prior to the Principal Assurance Date were not entitled
to any benefits under the Merrill Lynch, Inc. guarantee.  

(b)               Holders : 

As of December 31, 2005, there were 525 holders of Units, including
MLAI.  

(c)               Dividends : 

For Series issued on or prior to May 1, 1997, the Partnership made
annual fixed-rate distributions, payable irrespective of profitability, of
$3.50 per Unit. Discretionary distributions of up to 50% of any Distributable
New Appreciation, as defined, recognized as of each twelve-month anniversary of
the issuance of each Series of Units, subject to an annual limit of 4% of the
Net Asset Value per Unit of each Series as of the beginning of the preceding
twelve-month period could also be made. Distributions, whether fixed-rate or
discretionary, do not reduce the $100 minimum Net Asset Value per Unit assured
to investors as of the Principal Assurance Date for their Series of Units.  

(d)                Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities;
Uses of Proceeds From Registered Securities:   

Not applicable.  

As of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Partnership had made the
following distributions:  

The Partnership does not make any distributions on any Series of Unit
issued subsequent to May 1, 1997.  

(d)               Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans : 

Not applicable.  

Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities; Uses
of Proceeds From Registered Securities.   

Not applicable.  

10  

Item 5(b)   

Not applicable.  

Item 5(c)   

Not applicable.  

Item 6:         Selected Financial Data   

The following selected financial data has been derived from the audited
financial statements of the Partnership:  

11  

(1) Net of aggregate
distribution of $28.00 per unit on Series G Units and $28.00 on Series H Units. 

(2) Net of aggregate distribution of $29.50 per unit on Series A Units,
$31.50 on Series B Units, $28.50 on Series C Units, $26.50 on Series D Units,
$26.50 on Series E Units, $24.75 on Series F Units, $24.50 on Series G Units
and $24.50 on Series H Units.  

(3) Net of aggregate distribution of $29.50 per unit on Series A Units,
$28.00 on Series B Units, $25.00 on Series C Units, $23.00 on Series D Units,
$23.00 on Series E Units, $21.25 on Series F Units, $21.00 on Series G Units
and $21.00 on Series H Units.  

12  

ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION L.P.   

   December 31, 2005   

Type of Pool:   
Multi-Advisor; Selected Advisor/Publicly-Offered/ Principal Protected (1) 

   Inception of Trading:     October 12, 1994 

   Aggregate Subscriptions  :
$164,914,392 

   Current Capitalization:     $10,232,424 

   Worst Monthly Drawdown:(2)     (4.04)% 
(03/03) 

   Worst Peak-to-Valley Drawdown:(3)     (8.76)% 
(03/04-09/04) 

Rates of
Return are presented on a composite, not a Series-by-Series, basis.  

Monthly Rates of Return(4)   

(1) Pursuant to applicable CFTC regulations, a  Multi-Advisor 
Partnership is defined as one that allocates no more than 25% of its Assets to
any single manager. The Partnership does not currently allocate more than 25%
of its Trading Assets to any single Advisor but may do so in the future;
consequently, it is referred to as a Multi-Advisor; Selected Advisor 
Partnership. Certain funds, including funds sponsored by MLAI, are structured
so as to guarantee to investors that their investment will be worth no less
than a specified amount (typically, the initial purchase price) as of a date
certain after the date of investment. The CFTC refers to such funds as  Principal
Protected.   The Merrill Lynch Guarantee
and ML- related deleveraging of the Partnership s trading provides the  Principal
Protection  feature of the Partnership. The  Principal Protection  feature no
longer applies to Series A through S as of December 31, 2004.  

(2) Worst Monthly Drawdown represents the largest negative Monthly Rate
of Return experienced by the Partnership since January 1, 2001; a Drawdown is
measured on the basis of month-end Net Asset Value only, and does not reflect
intra-month figures.  

(3) Worst Peak-to-Valley
Drawdown represents the greatest percentage decline from a month-end cumulative
Monthly Rate of Return since January 1, 2001 without such cumulative Monthly
Rate of Return being equaled or exceeded as of a subsequent month-end. For
example, if the Monthly Rate of Return was (1)% in each of January and
February, 1% in March and (2)% in April, the Peak-to-Valley Drawdown would
still be continuing at the end of April in the amount of approximately (3)%, whereas
if the Monthly Rate of Return had been approximately 3% in March, the Peak-to-Valley
Drawdown would have ended as of the end of February at approximately the (2)%
level. 

(4) Monthly Rate of Return is
the net performance of the Partnership during the month of determination
(including interest income and after all expenses accrued or paid) divided by
the total equity of the Partnership as of the beginning of such month.  

13  

MONTH-END NET ASSET VALUE PER SERIES A
UNIT (SERIES A 2003 FOR JANUARY 1, 2003 THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2004 AND SERIES
2005 THEREAFTER)  

(c) After reduction for the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and
sixth annual distribution and the $3.50 per Series A Unit distribution made on
October 1, 2001.  

(d) After reduction for the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth
and seventh annual distribution and the $3.50 per Series A Unit distribution
made on October 1, 2002.  

14  

Item 7:         Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

Results of Operations    

Advisor Selections   

The Partnership s results
of operations depend on MLAI s ability to select Advisors and the Advisors 
ability to trade profitably. MLAI s selection procedures and trading leveraging
analysis, as well as the Advisors  trading methods, are confidential, so that
substantially the only available information relevant to the Partnership s
results of operations is its actual performance record to date. Because of the
speculative nature of its trading, the Partnership s past performance is not
necessarily indicative of its future results.  

MLAI has made
frequent changes to both trading asset allocations among Advisors and Advisor
combinations as well as from time to time adjusting the percentage of the
Partnership s assets committed to trading.  

MLAI s decision to
terminate or reallocate assets among Advisors is based on a combination of numerous
factors. Advisors are, in general, terminated primarily for unsatisfactory
performance, but other factors   for example, a change in MLAI s or an Advisor s
market outlook, apparent deviation from announced risk control policies,
excessive turnover of positions, changes in principals, commitment of resources
to other business activities, etc.   may also have a role in the termination or
reallocation decision. The market judgment and experience of MLAI s principals
is an important factor in its asset allocation decisions.  

MLAI has no
timetable or schedule for making Advisor changes or reallocations, and
generally makes a medium- to long-term commitment to all Advisors selected.
There can be no assurance as to the frequency or number of Advisor changes that
may take place in the future, or as to how long any of the current Advisors
will continue to manage assets for the Partnership.  

General  

A number of the
Advisors are trend following traders, whose programs do not attempt to predict
price movements. No fundamental economic supply or demand analyses are used by
these Advisors, and no macroeconomic assessments of the relative strengths of
different national economies or economic sectors are evaluated. Instead, the
programs apply proprietary computer models to analyzing past market data, and
from this data alone attempt to determine whether market prices are trending.
These traders base their strategies on the theory that market prices reflect
the collective judgment of numerous different traders and are, accordingly, the
best and most efficient indication of market movements. However, there are
frequent periods during which fundamental factors external to the market
dominate prices.  

If a trend-following
Advisor s models identify a trend, they signal positions, which follow it. When
these models identify the trend as having ended or reversed, these positions
are either closed out or reversed. Due to their trend-following character,
these Advisors  programs do not predict either the commencement or the end of a
price movement. Rather, their objective is to identify a trend early enough to
profit from it and detect its end or reversal in time to close out the
Partnership s positions while retaining most of the profits made from following
the trend.  

In analyzing the
performance of trend-following programs, economic conditions, political events,
weather factors, etc. are not directly relevant because only market data has
any input into trading results. Furthermore, there is no direct connection
between particular market conditions and price trends. There are so many
influences on the markets that the same general type of economic event may lead
to a price trend in some cases but not in others. The analysis is further
complicated by the fact that the programs are designed to recognize only
certain types of trends and to apply only certain criteria of when a trend has
begun. Consequently, even though significant price trends may occur, if these
trends are not comprised of the type of intra-period price movements, which the
programs are, designed to identify, a trend-following Advisor may miss the
trend altogether.  

In the case of the
Advisors who implement strategies, which rely more on discretion and market
judgment, it is not possible to predict, from their performance during past
market cycles, how they will respond to future market events.  

15  

Performance Summary    

This performance summary
is an outline description of how the Partnership performed in the past, not necessarily
any indication of how it will perform in the future. In addition, the general
causes to which certain price movements are attributed may or may not in fact
have caused such movements, but simply occurred at or about the same time.  

The Advisors, as a
group, are unlikely to be profitable in markets in which such trends do not
occur. Static or erratic prices are likely to result in losses. Similarly,
unexpected events (for example, a political upheaval, natural disaster or
governmental intervention) can lead to major short-term losses, as well as
gains.  

While there can be no assurance that any Advisor will be profitable,
under any given market condition, markets in which substantial and sustained
price movements occur typically offer the best profit potential for the
Partnership.  

2005   

Though an overall loss was realized for the year, the Partnership s
overall trading performance was profitable with trading in metals and stock
indices contributing the most profits.  

Trading in the metals sector posted the most profits for the year. Long
positions in base and precious metals contributed to profits early in the year
but detracted from performance in the second quarter. Long metal positions in
the third quarter, specifically copper, contributed to profits as global growth
increased speculation that demand and therefore, prices would increase. Metals
continued their upward trend through the latter part of the year as demand
remained strong for base and precious metals.  

Trading in stock indices posted solid trading profits as well for the
year despite losses posted in the first half of the year. Losses occurred early
in the year due to a trend reversal from long global equities to short global
equities. Trading in stock indices contributed positively to performance in the
second half of the year with long positions in global equities contributing the
most as global markets rallied. Trading in the Nikkei, DAX and European
equities posted strong gains as they rallied at year end.  

The interest rate sector posted gains for the year primarily due to
profits posted in the first half of the year despite this sector detracting
from performance for the Partnership in the second half of the year. In the
beginning of the year the interest rate sector was the best performing sector
as the Partnership benefited from long U.S. dollar positions versus the Euro
and long Euro and Japanese fixed incomes. Long positions in the ten-year German
bund also contributed to gains. Mid-year a rally in bond prices attributed to
losses as did long positions in Japanese and European government bonds. Trading
in German bunds further detracted from performance. Gains were posted in
October primarily due to short exposures to U.S. and European yield curves, as
bond prices fell over concerns that the central banks would continue to raise
rates; however these profits were not enough to outweigh losses posted
throughout the latter part of the fourth quarter. Interest rates detracted as
the U.S. yield curve inverted, resulting in a challenging environment for
trading managers. Additionally, the market perception that the Federal Reserve
would end its interest rate increase sooner rather than later sparked a sell
off of the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, many global long-term interest rates moved
lower, causing negative returns for select short positions, particularly to the
German bund and British gilt.  

Trading in the energy sector also posted gains for the Partnership
despite the sector detracting from performance in the fourth quarter. Gains
were experienced in the energy sector as the Partnership benefited from long
positions in crude oil and gas as these industries profited. During the second
quarter, crude oil and heating oil declined as crude oil fell in price, which
negatively impacted trend followers. Trading in the energy sector posted the
largest gains in the third quarter. Long energy positions in the entire energy
complex, as well as a rally in the energy sector due to Hurricane Katrina
attributed to those gains. Natural gas retreated from its record high prices
set in September, negatively impacting trading managers. Natural gas continued
its decline throughout the fourth quarter detracting from performance.  

Trading in the agricultural sector posted slight losses for the
Partnership for the year, with the first and latter part of the year
contributing to profits and mid-year detracting from performance. During the
first quarter, gains were experienced from long positions in cattle and hog
markets. Gains were posted due to coffee, which experienced a lack of supply
and a growing demand. Gains in exposure to hogs and soybeans were not enough to
offset trading losses in other commodities. Long exposure to soymeal further
attributed to losses. Short exposure to corn and long exposure to London  

16  

coffee detracted from
performance in the third quarter. Agriculture posted small gains at the end of
the year as long sugar positions rallied due to an expectation of reduced
supplies.  

Trading in the currency sector posted the largest losses for the
Partnership for the year, despite small gains posted in the second quarter.
Losses in the beginning of the year were due to a trend reversal from short
U.S. dollar positions to long U.S. dollar positions. Long Japanese yen and
Swiss franc positions also experienced losses. With the U.S. Federal Reserve
expressing concern about inflation, investors predicted that interest rates and
the U.S. dollar would rise. This caused losses as investors fled from emerging
currencies. In the second quarter, long positions in the British pound and the
Australian dollar contributed to gains. Short positions to the British pound
and Swiss franc enabled the Partnership to capitalize on trend reversals in the
market in the latter half of the second quarter. China s revaluation of the
yuan caused volatility across the currency markets. The U.S. dollar weakened
based on higher oil prices and the potential Federal Reserve slowdown in
September. British pounds detracted from performance in the foreign sector. The
U.S. dollar rallied against most major currencies, primarily the yen, which
attributed to losses. Higher yielding carry trades reversed causing losses to
be posted as well. The year ended with currencies on the upswing. Short Euro and
Swiss franc and long Mexican peso positions contributed to performance.  

2004   

During 2004 all of the
Partnership s assets were invested in MM LLC. The Partnership received trading
profits as an investor in MM LLC. The following commentary of 2004 describes
the trading results for MM LLC during the year.  

The Partnership s overall
trading performance was successful with trading in the interest rate sector
proving to be the most profitable.  

The interest rate sector was the most profitable for the Partnership,
despite choppy trading conditions early in the year. Long exposure early in the
year to most of the major global yield curves proved to generate positive
results though overall exposure was light compared to historical exposure. Bond
markets were fairly range bound during the second quarter however, yields on
the U.S. ten-year note reached their highest levels since July 2002. U.S.
Treasury markets reacted to the employment data during the third quarter with a
strong sell-off, which caused the sector to reduce the long exposure to change
to a net short bias. The Federal Reserve raised key interest rates by 25 basis
points on September 21st and softer economic data eventually pushed longer-term
maturities higher by the end of the quarter. The U.S. fixed income markets,
particularly the front end, reversed their sell-off, which started in November,
but rallied during the first week of December, only to reverse that trend
during the last two weeks of the year.  

The energy sector had the second highest gains for this Partnership.
The upward trend in crude oil prices and related products continued in their
secular bull market trend, in a very volatile fashion. Colder than expected
winter months in the Northeast and Midwest U.S., instability with Russian suppliers,
fears of worldwide terrorism, and active hurricane season in the U.S., all
contributed to keeping prices high throughout the year. The end of the year did
see a pull back from the all time highs in energy prices, due to both
fundamental and technical factors, such as increased stockpiles and speculators
trading the market.  

Trading in agricultural commodities posted gains for the Partnership.
In the beginning of the year, the USDA cut its forecast of the crop supply for
both soybeans and corn, which sent prices surging. This long term rally
continued through the second quarter on strong demand from Asia and lower
estimates of supply from South America. Demand from China and diminishing
supplies had kept prices high for quite some time. Small gains were posted in
June, with cotton prices dropping allowing short exposures to generate profits.
Corn also posted a significant decline during the month, which caused the
portfolio to adjust positions from long to short. The USDA gave a low crop
estimate as there were forecasts of an early freeze following a cool summer and
slow crop development all surprising the market and posting losses as the short
positions were covered. Cocoa had a volatile move in November as the political
situation in the Ivory Coast deteriorated. The year ended with fundamental
factors continuing to drive coffee prices higher, reaching over $1 per pound, a
level not seen since July 2000.  

The metals sector was not profitable for the Partnership. Despite gains
in the first quarter and third quarter, the year was not profitable. The second
quarter generated significant losses in both industrial and precious metals.
The U.S. dollar strengthening and the fear of higher interest rates which would
curb growth, caused base and precious metals to sell-off. Industrial metals,
particularly copper, added to performance in the third quarter while exposure
to precious metals contributed a small gain. Copper rallied primarily based on
increasing demand from China and tight supply conditions. The year ended with
the metals sector posting a loss, as gains in long industrials were outweighed
by losses in long precious metal exposure. Gold experienced its first decline
in six months.  

17  

Stock indices posted a loss for the Partnership. The market was choppy
throughout the year making trading difficult. The Partnership was able to
realize some gains in the beginning of the year on long exposure to global
equities from momentum based and fundamental models performing well. However,
stock indices posted a loss that exceeded the gains from earlier in the first
quarter. In April, the Japanese Nikkei experienced a sudden deterioration,
which sent that market plunging approximately 5% in one day. Losses in the U.S.
outweighed moderate gains in some of the international markets late in the
third quarter. However, stock indices posted a strong gain the end of the year,
as markets continued the upward trend on positive economic data, a decline in
energy prices and increased overall confidence. Gains were made across the
U.S., Asia and Europe.  

The currency sector was the least profitable for the Partnership. The
currency markets continued its long trend of a weakening U.S. dollar. However,
trading was very choppy and gains generated in the beginning of the first
quarter were lost. Early U.S. dollar strength reversed towards the end of the
first quarter and at the quarter s close the U.S. dollar fell to a four year
low against the Japanese yen. The U.S. dollar rebounded at the beginning of the
second quarter only to weaken at the end of the quarter. The currency markets
remained range bound versus the U.S. dollar throughout the third quarter. The
year ended with the U.S. dollar continuing to decline against various other currencies.  

2003   

During 2003 all of the
Partnership s assets were invested in MM LLC. The Partnership received trading
profits as an investor in MM LLC. The following commentary of 2003 describes
the trading results for MM LLC during the year.  

The Partnership s overall
trading performance was successful with trading in the currency sector proving
to be the most profitable. The Partnership experienced gains in all sectors.  

The currency sector had
the most significant gains for the year. The weakening U.S. dollar continued to
decline as it has for over a year and the Partnership was well positioned to
capitalize on its U.S. dollar positions against other currencies. The largest
gains versus the U.S. dollar during January and February were with the
Australian dollar and Canadian dollar. In March, on hopes that the war with
Iraq would be short, the U.S. dollar strengthened and returned some of the
profits earned early in the year. The U.S. dollar depreciated against most
major currencies throughout most of the second quarter. The currency markets
judged the developments in the Middle East as negative for the U.S. economy and
trade, and the U.S. dollar sold off against most major currencies. The U.S.
dollar continued to weaken significantly during the month of May when Treasury
Secretary Snow indicated he was comfortable with current declines and that a
cheaper U.S. dollar would increase exports. The U.S. dollar strengthened
against most major currencies late June, reversing some earlier profits. During
the middle of the third quarter, the U.S. dollar appreciated relative to the
European currencies. In the fourth quarter the U.S. dollar declined against
other major currencies, as concerns over the widening trade deficits persisted.
Gains in trading the Australian dollar and Euro outweighed smaller losses in
other markets during the fourth quarter.  

Trading in stock indices
posted a gain for the year. The market was choppy throughout the year making
trading difficult. The Partnership was able to realize some gains in January on
short positions as most indices recorded three-month lows. At the beginning of
the third quarter, the equities were fairly quiet with strong gains being
generated in trading global stock indices, primarily the Nikkei 225. During the
middle of the third quarter, the losses in the S P 500 and Dow Jones
futures outweighed gains in other markets. However, the Japanese Nikkei was the
strongest performer as it gained over 8% on strong economic numbers. In
December, a profit was posted as long exposure to global equities from momentum
based models performed well as equities closed the year out with positive
performance. The main drives to performance in this sector were the DAX and the
S P500.  

The metals sector was
also profitable for the year. Gold drove profits in January as it continued its
run up. The general perception of risks in the financial markets and the
geopolitical situation unfolding was a main driver for the gold market in
January. Gold generated losses in March through June as gold s appeal as a safe
investment diminished. At the closing of the third quarter, both the industrial
and metal complex sectors benefited from increases in valuation. In November,
gold rallied and prices reached a six-year high and was one of the main drivers
of performance for the sector. The year ended with strong physical demand from
Asia accelerating the up trend in base metals, particularly, nickel and copper,
which benefited our long exposure to these markets.  

Interest rate futures
were profitable for the year. Significant gains in February and May as well as
in July due to the massive sell-off in bonds, offset losses throughout the
remainder of the year. U.S. and European bonds rallied until the beginning of
the third quarter when the U.S. bond market suffered losses after the U.S.
government announced its  

18  

intentions to borrow a record amount to finance the
huge deficit. European bonds were weaker, but generally outperformed U.S. bonds
during such period. Despite a record $60 billion refunding program in the U.S.,
bonds managed a timid recovery after making new lows. Trading conditions remain
choppy in this sector and overall exposure continues to remain low, since no
clear trends have emerged at the end of the year.  

Energy was a profitable
sector for the year. In February, the best performing month, natural gas prices
rose nearly 40% in a single day in connection with expected severely cold
weather and supply shortages. This helped the Partnership retain profits as
prices declined in crude oil and natural gas in March. The markets in April and
May were dominated by the developments in the Middle East, especially OPEC s
reaction to the developments in Iraq. Production was not being resumed as
initially estimated even though the destruction of the oilfields was smaller
than expected. Natural gas was very volatile during June. During the middle of
the third quarter, crude oil and most of the other energy markets were almost
unchanged with high volatility throughout this period. The volatility was
mainly due to the uncertainty in supply and estimates of demand that were
projected to increase. This was partly offset by expectations of the possible
resumption of oil production by Iraq. Strong gains were generated trading
unleaded gas and crude oil, only to be reversed in September. The year ended
with losses posted in the fourth quarter primarily due to milder weather in the
U.S., which lead to a downward trend in natural gas. Prices were volatile after
the arrest of Saddam Hussein and by a potential increase of OPEC quotas.  

Trading in agricultural
commodities posted small gains for the year. Livestock markets were off in
February as Russia imposed an import limit to help its domestic production.
Sugar was to blame for losses in March as prices reversed and hit a two-month
low. Gains in April, mainly from soybeans, which rallied due to revisions in
crop estimates and weather overseas, were overshadowed by losses in May and
June due to changes in crop estimates and a volatile livestock market. In the
beginning of the third quarter, short exposure in corn generated strong profits
as the U.S. government forecasted a record crop for this year. Supply and
demand continued to drive the cattle market as prices rose sharply in the
beginning of the third quarter. Weather drove prices up due to very little rain
in the Midwest, where a substantial portion of the U.S. crops grow. By the end
of the third quarter, supply concerns drove the corn and soybean markets due to
the fact the USDA reported a better than expected yield on corn and lower
yields on soybeans. The fourth quarter began with posted gains as grain export
data was very bullish for most grain markets and soybeans. Later in the fourth
quarter, the discovery of the first case of mad cow disease contributed to the
posting of losses.  

Variables
Affecting Performance    

The principal variables, which determine the net performance of the
Partnership, are gross profitability and interest income. Gross profitability
is, in turn, effected by the percentage of the Partnership s assets allocated
to trading.  

During
all periods set forth under  Selected Financial Data,  the interest rates in
many countries were at unusually low levels. The low interest rates in the
United States (although higher than in many other countries) negatively
impacted revenues because interest income is typically a major component of the
Partnership s profitability. In addition, low interest rates are frequently
associated with reduced fixed income market volatility, and in static markets
the Partnership s profit potential generally tends to be diminished. On the
other hand, during periods of higher interest rates, the relative
attractiveness of a high risk investment such as the Partnership may be reduced
as compared to high yielding and much lower risk fixed-income investments.  

The Partnership s Brokerage Commissions and Administrative Fees are a
constant percentage of the Partnership s assets allocated to trading and total
assets, respectively. The only Partnership costs (other than the insignificant
currency trading costs) which are not based on a percentage of the Partnership s
assets (allocated to trading or total) are the Profit Shares payable to the
Advisors on an Advisor-by-Advisor basis. Gross profitability is in turn
effected by the percentages of the Partnership s assets allocated to trading.
During periods when Profit Shares are a high percentage of net trading gains,
it is likely that there has been substantial performance non-correlation among
the Advisors (so that the total Profit Shares paid to those Advisors which have
traded profitably are a high percentage, or perhaps even in excess, of the
total profits recognized, as other Advisors have incurred offsetting losses,
reducing overall trading gains but not the Profit Shares paid to the successful
Advisors)   suggesting the likelihood of generally trendless, non-consensus
markets.  

Unlike many
investment fields, there is no meaningful distinction in the operation of the
Partnership between realized and unrealized profits. Most of the contracts
traded by the Partnership are highly liquid and can be closed out at any time.  

Except in unusual circumstances, factors (e.g. regulatory approvals,
cost of goods sold, employee relations and the like) which often materially
affect an operating business have virtually no impact on the Partnership.  

19  

The Different Series of
Units   

During 2005 all Series of Units were invested in Global Horizons I L.P.
and were subject to the same method of calculating their fees (prior to the
close of business on December 31, 2004, all Series of Units were invested in MM
LLC). Despite these fundamental similarities among the different Series,
because the Series begin trading at different times they are likely, as a
result of trading profits and losses, to pay different Profit Shares (although
to the same group of Advisors) and have different Net Asset Values.  

Liquidity; Capital
Resources   

The Partnership sells no securities other than the Units. The
Partnership borrows, through Global Horizons, only to a limited extent and only
on a strictly short-term basis in order to finance losses on non-U.S. dollar
denominated trading positions pending the conversion of the Partnership s U.S.
dollar deposits. These borrowings are at a prevailing short-term rate in the
relevant currency. They have been immaterial to the Partnership s operations to
date and are expected to continue to be so.  

Substantially all of the Partnership s assets are held in cash, through
Global Horizons. The Net Asset Value of the Partnership s cash is not affected
by inflation. However, changes in interest rates could cause periods of strong
up or down price trends, during which the Partnership s profit potential
generally increases. Inflation in commodity prices could also generate price
movements which the strategies might successfully follow.  

Except in very unusual circumstances, the Partnership should be able to
close out any or all of its open trading positions and liquidate any or all of
its securities holdings quickly and at market prices. This permits an Advisor
to limit losses, as well as reduce market exposure on short notice should its
strategies indicate doing so. In addition, because there generally is a readily
available market value for the Partnership s positions and assets, the
Partnership s monthly Net Asset Value calculations typically are precise, and
investors need only wait ten business days to receive the full redemption
proceeds of their Units.  

(The Partnership has no off-balance sheet arrangements or contractual
obligations of the type described in Items 303(a)(4) and 303(a)(5) of
Regulation S-K.)  

Item 7A:   Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    

Not applicable.  

20  

Item 8:         Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data   

Selected Quarterly Financial Data  

ML Principal
  Protection L.P.  

Net Income by Quarter  

  Eight Quarters through December 31, 2005  

The financial statements
required by this Item are included in Exhibit 13.01. 

The supplementary financial information ( information about oil and gas
producing activities ) specified by Item 302 of Regulation S-K is not
applicable.  

Item 9:         Changes in and Disagreements
with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

There were no changes in
or disagreements with independent auditors on accounting and financial
disclosure.  

Item 9A:  Controls and
Procedures    

Merrill Lynch
Alternative Investments LLC, the General Partner of ML Principal Protection
L.P., with the participation of the General Partner s Chief Executive Officer
and the Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design
and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures with respect to the
Partnership as of the end of the period covered by this annual report, and,
based on their evaluation, have concluded that these disclosure controls and
procedures are effective. Additionally, there were no significant changes in
the Partnership s internal controls or in other factors that could
significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation,
including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and
material weaknesses.  

Item 9B:   Other
Information    

Not applicable.  

21  

PART III   

Item 10:  Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant    

10(a) and 10(b)  Identification of Managers and Executive Officers :  

As a limited partnership, the Partnership itself has no officers or
directors and is managed by MLAI. Trading decisions are made by the Advisors on
behalf of the Partnership. Trading decisions are made by the advisors on behalf
of the Partnership. MLAI promotes the Partnership and its controlling person.  

The managers and executive officers of MLAI and their respective
business backgrounds are as follows.  

Robert M. Alderman   

Chief Executive Officer, President and Manager  

Steven B. Olgin   

Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Manager  

Michael L. Pungello   

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer  

Jeffrey F. Chandor   

Manager  

Mr. Alderman was born in 1960. Mr. Robert M. Alderman is Chief
Executive Officer, President and Manager of MLAI. Mr. Alderman is a Managing
Director of Merrill Lynch Global Private Client and global head of Retail Sales
and Business Management for Alternative Investments. Prior to re-joining
Merrill Lynch and the International Private Client Group in 1999, he was a
partner in the Nashville, Tennessee based firm of J.C. Bradford   Co. where
he was the Director of Marketing, and a National Sales Manager for Prudential
Investments. Mr. Alderman first joined Merrill Lynch in 1987 where he worked
until 1997. During his tenure at Merrill Lynch, Mr. Alderman has held positions
in Financial Planning, Asset Management and High Net Worth Services. He received
his Master s of Business Administration from the Carroll School of Management
Boston College and a Bachelor of Arts from Clark University.  

Steven B. Olgin was born in 1960. Mr. Olgin is Vice President, Chief
Operating Officer and a Manager of MLAI. He joined MLAI in July 1994 and became
a Vice President in July 1995. From 1986 until July 1994, Mr. Olgin was an
associate of the law firm of Sidley   Austin. In 1982, Mr. Olgin graduated
from The American University with a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration
and a Bachelor of Arts in Economics. In 1986, he received his Juris Doctor from
the John Marshall Law School. Mr. Olgin is a member of the Managed Funds
Association s Government Relations Committee and has served as an arbitrator
for the National Futures Association. Mr. Olgin is a member of the Illinois
Bar.  

Michael L. Pungello was born in 1957. Mr. Pungello is a Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of MLAI. He was First Vice President and
Senior Director of Finance for Merrill Lynch s Operations, Services and
Technology Group from January 1998 to March 1999. Prior to that, Mr. Pungello
spent over 18 years with Deloitte   Touche LLP, and was a partner in their
financial services practice from June 1990 to December 1997. He graduated from
Fordham University in 1979 with a Bachelor of Science in Accounting and
received his Master s of Business Administration in Finance from New York
University in 1987.  

Jeffrey F. Chandor was born in 1942. Mr. Chandor is
the Global Sales Director of the General Partner. Mr. Chandor became a Manager
of the General Partner on April 1, 2003. He was a Senior Vice President,
Director of Sales, Marketing and Research and a Director of Merrill Lynch
Investment Partners, Inc., a predecessor to the General Partner. He joined
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated in 1971 and has served
as the Product Manager of International Institutional Equities, Equity
Derivatives and Mortgage-Backed Securities as well as Managing Director of
International Sales in the United States, and Managing Director of Sales in
Europe. Mr. Chandor holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Trinity College,
Hartford, Connecticut.  

22  

As of December 31, 2005, the principals of MLAI had no investment in
the Partnership, and MLAI S general partner interest in the Partnership was
valued at $154,642.  

MLAI acts as the sponsor, general partner or manager to ten public
futures funds whose units of limited partnership or member interests are
registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: Global Horizons I L.P.,
ML Futures Investments L.P., ML JWH Strategic Allocation L.P., ML Select
Futures I L.P, John W. Henry   Co./Millburn L.P., ML Appleton FuturesAccess
LLC, ML Aspect FuturesAccess LLC, ML Cornerstone FuturesAccess LLC, ML Winton
FuturesAccess LLC, and the Partnership. Because MLAI serves as the sponsor,
general partner or manager of each of these funds, the officers and managers of
MLAI effectively manage them as officers and directors of such funds.  

(c)               Identification of
Certain Significant Employees : 

None.  

(d)               Family Relationships : 

None.  

(e)               Business Experience : 

See Item 10(a) and
(b) above.  

(f)                Involvement in
Certain Legal Proceedings : 

None.  

(g)               Promoters and
Control Persons : 

Not applicable.  

(h)               Audit
Committee Financial Expert : 

Not applicable. (Neither the Partnership nor
MLAI has an audit committee.)  

Section 16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance   

Not Applicable.  

Code of Ethics  : 

The Partnership has adopted a code of ethics, as of the end of the
period covered by this report, which applies to the Partnership s (MLAI s)
principal executive officer and principal financial officer or persons
performing similar functions on behalf of the Partnership. A copy of the code
of ethics is available to any person, without charge, upon request by calling 1-877-465-8435.  

Item 11:   Executive
Compensation    

The managers and officers
of MLAI are remunerated by MLAI in their respective positions. The Partnership
does not itself have any officers, directors or employees. The Partnership pays
Brokerage Commissions to an affiliate of MLAI and Administrative Fees to MLAI.
MLAI or its affiliates may also receive certain economic benefits from holding
certain of the Partnership s U.S. dollar Assets in offset accounts, as
described in Item 1(c) above. The directors and officers receive no other
compensation from the Partnership, and the managers receive no compensation for
serving as managers of MLAI. There are no compensation plans or arrangements
relating to a change in control of either the Partnership or MLAI.  

23  

Item 12:   Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

(a)               Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners : 

Not applicable (The Units are non-voting limited partnership interests.
The Partnership is managed by MLAI, its general partner).  

(b)               Security Ownership
of Management : 

As of December 31, 2005, MLAI owned 160,738 Units (Unit-equivalent
general partnership interests), which was approximately 1.48% of the total
Units outstanding.  

(c)               Changes
in Control : 

None.  

(d)              Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans: 

Not applicable.  

Item 13:   Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions    

(a)               Transactions between
Merrill Lynch and the Partnership  

All of the service
providers to the Partnership, other than the Advisors, are affiliates of
Merrill Lynch. Merrill Lynch negotiated with the Advisors over the level of
their advisory fees and Profit Shares. However, none of the fees paid by the
Partnership to any Merrill Lynch party were negotiated, and they are higher
than would have been obtained in arm s-length bargaining.  

The Partnership
indirectly pays Merrill Lynch through MLPF S and MLAI, substantial
Brokerage Commissions and Administrative Fees, respectively, as well as bid-ask
spreads on forward currency trades. The Partnership also pays MLPF S
interest on short-term loans extended by MLPF S to cover losses on foreign
currency positions.  

Within the Merrill Lynch
organization, MLAI is the direct beneficiary of the revenues received by
different Merrill Lynch entities from the Partnership. MLAI controls the
management of the Partnership and serves as its promoter. Although MLAI has not
sold any assets, directly or indirectly, to the Partnership, MLAI makes
substantial profits from the Partnership due to the foregoing revenues.  

No loans have been, are
or will be outstanding between MLAI or any of its principals and the
Partnership.  

MLAI paid substantial selling commissions and trailing commissions to
MLPF S for distributing the Units. MLAI is ultimately paid back for these
expenditures from the revenues it receives from the Partnership.  

(b)               Certain Business
Relationships : 

MLPF S, an affiliate of MLAI, acts as the principal commodity
broker for the Partnership.  

In 2005, Global Horizons expensed directly on behalf of the
Partnership: (i) Brokerage Commissions of $792,797 to MLPF S, which
included $158,576 in consulting fees earned by the Advisors; and (ii)
Administrative Fees of $27,338 to MLIM LLC and MLAI. In addition, MLAI and its
affiliates may have derived certain economic benefit from possession of the
Partnership s assets, as well as from foreign exchange and EFP trading.  

See Item 1(c),  Narrative Description of Business   Charges  and    Description
of Current Charges  for a discussion of other business dealings between MLAI
affiliates and the Partnership.  

24  

(c)               Indebtedness of
Management : 

The Partnership is prohibited from making any loans, to management or
otherwise.  

(d)               Transactions
with Promoters : 

Not applicable.  

Item 14:   Principal Accountant
Fees and Services    

(a)               Audit
Fees  

Aggregate fees billed for
professional services rendered by Deloitte   Touche LLP in connection with
the audit of the Partnership s financial statements as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2005 were $21,500.  

Aggregate fees billed for
these services for the year ended December 31, 2004 were $23,550.  

(b)               Audit-Related Fees  

There were no
other audit-related fees billed for the years ended December 31, 2005 or 2004
related to the Partnership.  

(c)               Tax Fees  

Aggregate fees
billed for professional services rendered by Deloitte Tax LLP in connection
with the tax compliance, advice and preparation of the Partnership s, tax
returns for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $152,000.  

Aggregate fees
billed for these services for the year ended December 31, 2004 were $66,000.  

(d)               All Other Fees  

No fees were
billed by Deloitte   Touche LLP, Deloitte Tax LLP or any member firms of
Delloitte Touche Tohmatsu, and their respective affiliates during the years
ended December 31, 2005 or 2004 for any other professional services in relation
to the Partnership.  

Neither the Partnership nor MLAI has an audit committee to pre-approve
principal accountant fees and services. In lieu of an audit committee, the
managers and the principal financial officer pre-approve all billings prior to
the commencement of the performance of such services.  

25  

PART IV   

Item 15:   Exhibits and
Financial Statement Schedules    

1.                 Financial
Statements (found in Exhibit 13.01) : 

2.                 Financial
Statement Schedules : 

Financial statement schedules not included in this Form 10-K have been
omitted for the reason that they are not required or are not applicable or that
equivalent information has been included in the financial statements or notes
thereto.  

3.                 Exhibits : 

The following exhibits are incorporated by reference or are filed
herewith to this Annual Report on Form 10-K:  

Designation   

Description   

1.01  

Selling Agreement among the Partnership, MLIM LLC, MLPF S, the
  Selling Agent and the Advisors.  

Exhibit 1.01  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 1.01 contained in
  Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement (File No. 33-73914) filed on
  July 14, 1994, on Form S-1 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Registrant s
  Registration Statement ).  

1.01(a)  

Form of Selling Agreement Amendment among the Partnership, MLIM LLC,
  MLPF S, the Selling Agent and the Advisors.  

Exhibit 1.01(a)  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 1.01(a) contained in
  the Registrant s report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

3.01(i)  

Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of the
  Partnership.  

Exhibit 3.01(i)  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 3.01(ii) contained
  in the Registrant s Registration Statement (as Exhibit A).  

3.05(ii)  

Amended and Restated Certificate of Limited Partnership of the
  Partnership, dated July 27, 1995.  

Exhibit 3.05(ii)  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 3.05(ii) contained
  in the Registrant s report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended June 30, 1995.  

26  

10.01(h)  

Form of Advisory Agreement among the Partnership, MLIM LLC,  MLPF S and each Advisor.  

Exhibit 10.01(h)  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.01(h) contained
  in the Registrant s report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended June 30, 1995.  

10.02  

Form of Consulting Agreement between MLPF S and each Advisor.  

Exhibit 10.02  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.02 contained
  in the Registrant s Registration Statement.  

10.03  

Form of Customer Agreement between the Partnership and MLPF S .   

Exhibit 10.03   

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.03 contained in
  the Registrant s Registration Statement (as Exhibit B).  

10.05  

Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. Guarantee.  

Exhibit 10.05  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.05 contained in
  the Registrant s Registration Statement (as Exhibit B).  

10.06  

Form of Subscription Agreement and Power of Attorney.  

Exhibit 10.06  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.06 contained in
  the Registrant s Registration Statement (as Exhibit D).  

10.07(a)  

Foreign Exchange Desk Service Agreement, dated July 1, 1993 among
  Merrill Lynch International Bank, MLAI, MLPF S and various MLIM AS LLC
  funds.  

Exhibit 10.07(a)  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.07 contained in
  the Registrant s Registration Statement (as Exhibit D).  

10.07(b)  

Amendment to Foreign Exchange Desk Service Agreement, dated July 14,
  1994, among Merrill Lynch Investment Bank, MLAI, MLPF S and the
  Partnership.  

Exhibit 10.07(b)  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.07 contained in
  the Registrant s Registration Statement.  

10.08  

Investment Advisory Contract between MLPF S, the Partnership, the
  Trading Partnership and MLIM LLC.  

Exhibit 10.08  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.08 contained in
  the Registrant s Registration Statement.  

10.09(a)  

Form of Advisory and Consulting Agreement Amendment among MLIM LLC,
  each Advisor, the Partnership and MLPF S.  

Exhibit 10.09(a)  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.09(a) contained
  in the Registrant s report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996.  

10.09(b)  

Form of Amendment to the Customer Agreement among the Partnership and
  MLPF S.  

Exhibit 10.09(b)  : 

Is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.09(b) contained
  in the Registrant s report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996.  

27  

28  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION L.P.   

By:   MERRILL LYNCH ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS LLC    

General Partner  

By:  

/s/Robert M. Alderman  

Robert M. Alderman  

Chief Executive Officer, President and Manager  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed on March 31, 2005 by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated.  

Signature   

Title   

Date   

/s/Robert M. Alderman  

Chief Executive Officer, President and Manager  

March 31, 2006  

Robert M. Alderman  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/Steven B. Olgin  

Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Manager  

March 31, 2006  

Steven B. Olgin  

/s/Michael L. Pungello  

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer  

March 31, 2006  

Michael L. Pungello  

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  

/s/Jeffrey F. Chandor  

Manager  

March 31, 2006  

Jeffrey F. Chandor  

(Being the principal executive officer, the principal financial and
accounting officer and a majority of the managers of Merrill Lynch Investment
Managers LLC)  

MERRILL LYNCH ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS LLC   

General Partner of Registrant  

March 31, 2006  

By:  

/s/Robert M. Alderman  

Robert M. Alderman  

Chief Executive Officer, President and Manager  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

29  

ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION L.P.   

ANNUAL
REPORT FOR 2005 ON FORM 10-K  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS   

Exhibit    

Exhibit 13.01  

2005 Annual Report and Report of Independent Registered Public
  Accounting Firm  

Exhibit 13.01(a)  

2005 Annual Report and Report of Independent Registered Public
  Accounting Firm Trading Limited Liability Company sponsored by MLAI:  

Global Horizons I L.P.  

30  

<EX-13.01>
 2
 a06-7497_5ex13d01.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT TO SECURITY HOLDERS

Exhibit 13.01   

ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION L.P.    

(A Delaware Limited
  Partnership)    

Financial Statements for the years ended  

December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and  

Report of Independent Registered  

Public Accounting Firm  

ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION L.P.  

   ( A Delaware
Limited Partnership )  

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM   

To the Partners of  

    ML Principal
Protection L.P.:  

We have audited the accompanying statements of
financial condition of ML Principal Protection L.P. (the  Partnership ) as of December
 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related statements of operations and changes
in partners  capital for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2005 and the financial data highlights for the year ended December 31, 2005.
These financial statements and financial data highlights are the responsibility
of the Partnership s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and financial data highlights based on our audits.  

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements and financial data highlights
are free of material misstatement. The Partnership is not required to have, nor
were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial
reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Partnership s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly,
we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, such financial statements and
financial data highlights present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of ML Principal Protection L.P. as of December 31, 2005
and 2004, and the results of its operations, changes in its partners  capital
and the financial data highlights for each of the periods presented in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.  

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP   

New York, New York  

  March 6, 2006  

ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION L.P.  

   ( A Delaware
Limited Partnership )  

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION  

  DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004  

See notes to
financial statements.  

2  

ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION L.P.  

  ( A Delaware Limited Partnership )  

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  

  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND
2003  

Substantially all items of income and expense are
derived from the investment in Global Horizons for year ended December 31,
2005  

  and MM LLC for the years ended December 31, 2004
and 2003.  

See notes to financial statements.  

3  

ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION L.P.  

  ( A Delaware Limited Partnership )  

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN PARTNERS  CAPITAL  

  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND
2003  

See notes to financial
statements.  

4  

ML PRINCIPAL PROTECTION L.P.  

  ( A Delaware Limited Partnership )  

FINANCIAL DATA HIGHLIGHTS  

  FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005  

The following per Unit data and ratios have been
derived from information provided in the financial statements.  

*Series 2005 units were issued on January 2, 2005 (See Note
7).  

See notes to financial statements.  

5  

ML PRINCIPAL
PROTECTION L.P.  

  ( A Delaware Limited Partnership )  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

1.                  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Organization   

ML Principal Protection L.P (the  Partnership ) was
organized as an open-end fund under the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited
Partnership Act on January 3, 1994 and commenced trading activities on October 12,
1994. The Partnership engages currently, through a limited liability company,
Global Horizons I L.P. ( Global Horizons ) in the speculative trading of
futures, options on futures and forward contracts on a wide range of
commodities. Through December 31, 2004, the Partnership traded, through a
similar limited liability company, ML Multi-Manager Portfolio LLC ( MM LLC ). Effective
December 31, 2004, after the close of business, MM LLC redeemed all of the
Partnership s units and the proceeds were invested in Global Horizons, which
has an investment strategy similar to MM LLC. Merrill Lynch Alternative
Investments LLC ( MLAI ) is the general partner of the Partnership and is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers LP ( MLIM ), which
in turn, is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Merrill Lynch   Co.
Inc. ( Merrill Lynch ). Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith
Incorporated ( MLPF S ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Merrill Lynch, is the
Partnership s commodity broker. Prior to December 1, 2005, Merrill Lynch
Investment Managers LLC ( MLIM LLC ) was the general partner of the
Partnership. All of the Partnership s assets are held in accounts maintained at
MLPF S. MLAI intends to maintain a general partner s interest of at least
1% of the total capital in each series of units. MLAI and the Limited
Partners share in the trading revenues and interest income of the Partnership
in proportion to the respective interests in the Partnership.  

The following notes relate to the operations of the
Partnership through its investments in Global Horizons and MM LLC. As of December 31,
2005, the Partnership s percentage of ownership share of Global Horizons was 3.81%.
As of December 31, 2004 (prior to MM LLC liquidation) and 2003, the
Partnership s percentage of ownership share of MM LLC was 13.44% and 11.02%,
respectively. MLAI selects independent trading advisors ( Advisors ) to manage Global
Horizons  assets, and allocates and reallocates such trading assets among existing,
replacement and additional Advisors.  

Estimates    

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.  

Revenue Recognition   

Commodity futures, options on futures and forwards are
recorded on the trade date and open contracts are reflected in Net unrealized
profit (loss) on open contracts in the Statements of Financial Condition of Global
Horizons (MM LLC as of December 31, 2004) at the difference between the
original contract value and the market value (for those commodity interests for
which market quotations are readily available) or at fair value. The change in
unrealized profit (loss) on open contracts from one period to the next is
reflected in Change in unrealized under Trading profits (losses) in the
Statements of Operations of Global Horizons (MM LLC for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003).  

6  

Foreign Currency Transactions   

The Partnership s functional currency is the U.S.
dollar; however, it transacts business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
Assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are
translated into U.S. dollars at the rates in effect at the dates of the
Statements of Financial Condition. Income and expense items denominated in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the
rates in effect during the period. Gains and losses resulting from the
translation to U.S. dollars are reported in Realized under Trading profit
(loss) on the Statements of Operations of Global Horizons (MM LLC for the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003).  

Operating Expenses and Selling Commissions    

MLAI pays all routine operating costs (including
legal, accounting, printing, postage and similar administrative expenses) of
the Partnership. MLAI receives an administrative fee as well as a portion of the
brokerage commissions paid by the Partnership through Global Horizons
(previously MM LLC).  

No selling commissions have been or are paid directly
by Limited Partners. All selling commissions are paid by MLAI.  

Income Taxes   

No provision for income taxes has been made in the
accompanying financial statements as each Partner is individually responsible
for reporting income or loss based on such Partner s respective share of the
Partnership s income and expenses as reported for income tax purposes.  

Redemptions   

A Limited Partner may redeem some or all of such
Partner s Units at Net Asset Value as of the close of business on the last
business day of any month upon ten calendar days  notice.  

Dissolution of the Partnership   

The Partnership will terminate on December 31,
2024 or at an earlier date if certain conditions occur, as well as under
certain other circumstances as set forth in the Limited Partnership Agreement.  

Indemnifications   

In the normal course of business, the Partnership
enters into contracts and agreements that contain a variety of representations
and warranties and which provide general indemnifications. The Partnership s
maximum exposure under these arrangements is unknown, as this would involve
future claims that may be made against the Partnership that have not yet
occurred. The Partnership expects the risk of any future obligation under these
indemnifications to be remote.  

2.                  INVESTMENT IN GLOBAL
HORIZONS/RECEIVABLE FROM MM LLC 

The financial statements of Global Horizons and MM LLC
for the years ended December 31, 2005 and  

7  

2004, respectively, are bound together with this
report and should be read in conjunction with the Partnership s financial
statements. Effective December 31, 2004, MM LLC liquidated and the fair
value of the Partnership s investment in MM LLC is reflected in Receivable from
MM LLC on the Statement of Financial Condition.  

The investment in Global Horizons as of December 31,
2005 is reflected in the financial statements at fair value based upon the
Partnership s proportionate interest in Global Horizons. Fair value of the
investment in Global Horizons is equal to the market value of the net assets of
Global Horizons allocable to the Partnership as an investor.  

All income and expense for the Partnership was derived
from its investment in Global Horizons or MM LLC, based on the Partnership s
proportionate share of Global Horizons  or MM LLC s revenues and expenses.  

3.                  RELATED PARTY
TRANSACTIONS. 

The Partnership s U.S. dollar assets are maintained at
MLPF S through Global Horizons and previously MM LLC. On assets held in
U.S. dollars, Merrill Lynch credits the Partnership with interest at the
prevailing 91-day U.S. Treasury bill rate. The Partnership is credited with
interest on any of its net gains actually held by Merrill Lynch in non-U.S.
dollar currencies at a prevailing local rate received by Merrill Lynch. Merrill
Lynch may derive certain economic benefits, in excess of the interest,
which Merrill Lynch pays to the Partnership, from possession of such assets. The
Partnership indirectly receives this interest through its investment in Global
Horizons (MM LLC for the years ended December 31, 2004).  

Merrill Lynch charges the Partnership, through its
investment in Global Horizons (MM LLC for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003), Merrill Lynch s cost of financing realized and unrealized
losses on the Partnership s non-U.S. dollar-denominated positions. Such amounts
are netted against interest income. These amounts are not significant to the
financial statements of the Partnership.  

Through its investment in Global Horizons and
previously MM LLC, the Partnership pays brokerage commissions to MLPF S at
a flat monthly rate of .604 of 1% (a 7.25% annual rate) of month-end trading
assets invested in Global Horizons (MM LLC for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003). Through its investment in Global Horizons and previously MM
LLC, the Partnership also pays MLAI, and previously MLIM LLC, a monthly
administrative fee of .021 of 1% (a 0.25% annual rate) of the Partnership s
total month-end trading assets. Assets committed to trading are not reduced for
purposes of calculating brokerage commissions and administrative fees by any
accrued brokerage commissions, administrative fees, Profit Shares or other fees
or charges.  

MLPF S pays the Advisors annual consulting fees up
to 2.50% of the Partnership s average month-end trading assets allocated to a
specific Advisor for management, after reduction for a portion of the brokerage
commissions accrued with respect to such assets.  

8  

4.                  ANNUAL DISTRIBUTIONS 

The Partnership made annual
fixed-rate distributions, payable irrespective of profitability, of $3.50 per
Unit on Units issued prior to May 1, 1997 until the Principal Assurance
Date. No distributions are payable on Units issued after May 1, 1997. For
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Partnership made the
following distributions:  

5.                  ADVISORY AGREEMENTS 

Global Horizons (MM LLC
for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003) and the Advisors have each
entered into Advisory Agreements. These Advisory Agreements generally renew
annually after they are entered into, subject to certain rights exercisable by
the Partnership. The Advisors determine the commodity futures, options on
futures and forwards trades to be made on behalf of their respective accounts,
subject to certain rights reserved by MLAI.  

Profit Shares, generally
ranging from 20% to 25% of any New Trading Profit, as defined, recognized by
each Advisor individually, irrespective of the overall performance of any
series, either as of the end of each calendar quarter or year and upon the net
reallocation of assets away from an Advisor, including Unit redemptions, are
paid by Global Horizons (MM LLC for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003) to the appropriate Advisors to the extent of the applicable percentage of
any New Trading Profit attributable to such Units.  

6.                  COPPER SETTLEMENT 

The
Partnership, as a member of a class of plaintiffs, received a settlement
payment in February 2005 relating to certain copper trades made by a
number of investors, including the Partnership, during a period in the mid-1990s.
Members of the class were those who purchased or sold COMEX, a subsidiary
of the New York Mercantile Exchange, copper futures or options contracts
between June 24, 1993 and June 15, 1996. The amount of the settlement
for the Partnership was $6,070, which is included in Realized under Trading
profits (losses) on the Statement of Operations of the Partnership for the year
ended December 31, 2005.  

9  

7.                  NET ASSET VALUE PER
UNIT 

Prior to the opening of
business on January 2, 2005, Series A 2003, Series 2004 and Series S
were consolidated into a new series, Series 2005, with a $1.00 Unit Net
Asset Value. The aggregate Net Asset Value of each investor s new Units was
equal to the aggregate Net Asset Value of their original Units at December 31,
2004. The consolidation had no adverse economic effect on the investors. MLIM
LLC contributed $733 to the Partnership, the amount necessary due to the
effects of rounding, to insure that all investors received Units equal in value
to their original holdings at December 31, 2004. The following is a
listing of the number of new Units each investor received of Series 2005
for each Unit of their original series holding.  

Prior
to the opening of business on January 2, 2004, Series G, H, and O
through R, were consolidated into a new series, Series 2004, with a $1.00
per Unit Net Asset Value. The aggregate Net Asset Value of each investor s new
Units is equal to the aggregate Net Asset Value of their original Units at December 31,
2003. The consolidation had no adverse economic effect on the investors. MLIM
LLC contributed $314 to the Partnership, the amount necessary due to the
effects of rounding, to insure all investors received Units equal in value to
their original holdings at December 31, 2003. The following is a listing
of the number of new Units each investor received of Series 2004 for each
Unit of their original series holding.  

10  

Prior to the opening of business on January 2,
2003, Series A through F and K through N, were consolidated into a new
series, Series A 2003, with a $1.00 per Unit Net Asset Value. The
aggregate Net Asset Value of each investor s new Units is equal to the
aggregate Net Asset Value of their original Units at December 31, 2002. The
consolidation had no adverse economic effect on the investors. MLIM LLC
contributed $5,499 to the Partnership, the amount necessary due to the effects
of rounding, to insure that all investors received Units equal in value to
their original holdings at December 31, 2002. The following is a listing
of the number of new Units each investor received of Series A 2003 for
each Unit of their original series holding.  

At December 31, 2005, the Net Asset Value of the
Units is as follows:  

At December 31, 2004, the Net Asset Values of
the different series of Units are as follows:  

8.                  WEIGHTED AVERAGE
UNITS 

Weighted average number of Units outstanding is
computed for purposes of computing net income (loss) per weighted average Unit.
The weighted average number of Units outstanding for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 equals the Units outstanding as of such date, adjusted
proportionately for Units redeemed or issued based on the respective length of
time each was outstanding during the year.  

11  

9.                   FAIR VALUE AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK 

The Partnership invests indirectly in derivative
instruments as a result of its investment in Global Horizons (MM LLC as of December 31,
2004), but does not itself hold any derivative instrument positions. The nature
of this Partnership has certain risks, which cannot be presented on the
financial statements.  

Market Risk   

Derivative instruments involve varying degrees of off-balance
sheet market risk. Changes in the level or volatility of interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates or the market values of the financial
instruments or commodities underlying such derivative instruments frequently
result in changes in the Partnership s net unrealized profit on such derivative
instruments as reflected in Statements of Financial Condition of Global
Horizons (MM LLC as of December 31, 2004). The Partnership s exposure to
market risk is influenced by a number of factors, including the relationships
among the derivative instruments held by Global Horizons (MM LLC as of December 31,
2004) as well as the volatility and liquidity of the markets in which such
derivative instruments are traded.  

10.            SUBSEQUENT EVENT 

On February 15, 2006, Merrill Lynch and
BlackRock, Inc ( BlackRock ) announced that they have reached an agreement to
merge the asset management business of MLIM and BlackRock to create a new
independent asset management company. The transaction has been approved by the
boards of directors of both Merrill Lynch and BlackRock and is expected to
close in the third quarter of 2006. As a result of the transaction, the
combined company will become the general partner or sponsor of the Partnership.  

12  

* * * * * * * * * *  

To the best of the knowledge and belief of the  

  undersigned, the
information contained in this  

  report is accurate and
complete.  

Michael Pungello  

  Chief Financial Officer  

  Merrill Lynch Alternative
Investments, LLC  

  General Partner of  

  ML Principal Protection
L.P.  

13  

</EX-13.01>

<EX-13.01(A)>
 3
 a06-7497_5ex13d01a.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 13.01(a)   

GLOBAL HORIZONS I L.P.    

    (A Delaware Limited Partnership)    

Financial Statements for the years ended  

  December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

  And Report of Independent Registered  

  Public Accounting Firm  

GLOBAL
HORIZONS I L.P.  

TABLE
OF CONTENTS  

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

To the Partners of  

  Global Horizons I L.P.:  

We have audited the accompanying statements of
financial condition of Global Horizons I L.P. (the  Partnership ) as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related statements of operations and
changes in partners  capital for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005 and the financial data highlights for the year ended December
31, 2005. These financial statements and financial data highlights are the
responsibility of the Partnership s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and financial data highlights
based on our audits.  

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements and financial data highlights
are free of material misstatement. The Partnership is not required to have nor
were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial
reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial
reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Partnership s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly,
we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, such financial statements and
financial data highlights present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Global Horizons I L.P. as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, and the results of its operations, changes in its partners  capital and
financial data highlights for each of the periods presented in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP   

New York, New York  

  March 6, 2006  

GLOBAL
HORIZONS I L.P.  

  ( A
Delaware Limited Partnership )  

STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION  

  DECEMBER
31, 2005 AND 2004  

See
notes to financial statements.  

  2  

GLOBAL
HORIZONS I L.P.  

  ( A
Delaware Limited Partnership )  

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  

  FOR
THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  

*Calculation of net
income (loss) per weighted average general partner and limited partner unit
excludes net loss allocated to non-unitized interests for the year ended
December 31, 2005.  

See
notes to financial statements.  

3  

GLOBAL
HORIZONS I L.P.  

  ( A
Delaware Limited Partnership )  

STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN PARTNERS  CAPITAL  

  FOR
THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  

See
notes to financial statements.  

4  

GLOBAL
HORIZONS I L.P.  

  ( A
Delaware Limited Partnership )  

FINANCIAL DATA HIGHLIGHTS  

  FOR
THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005  

The
following per Unit data and ratios have been derived from information provided
in the financial statements.  

See
notes to financial statements.  

5  

GLOBAL
HORIZONS I L.P.  

  ( A
Delaware Limited Partnership )  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS  

1.                  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Organization   

Global Horizons I L.P. (the  Partnership ), formerly ML Global
Horizons, LP,  was organized as an
open-end fund under the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act on May
11, 1993 and commenced trading activities on January 4, 1994. The Partnership
engages in the speculative trading of futures, options on futures and forward
contracts on a wide range of commodities. The Partnership issues units of
limited partnership interest ( Units ) at Net Asset Value as of the beginning
of each month. Effective December 1, 2005 Merrill Lynch Alternative Investments
LLC ( MLAI ) became the general partner of the Partnership. Prior to December 1,
2005, Merrill Lynch Investment Managers LLC ( MLIM LLC ) was the general
partner of the Partnership. MLAI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Merrill Lynch
Investment Managers LP ( MLIM ), which in turn, is an indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary of Merrill Lynch   Co. Inc. ( Merrill Lynch ). Trading authority
is delegated to independent trading advisors (the  Advisors ) by MLIM. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated ( MLPF S ), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Merrill Lynch, is the Partnership s commodity broker. MLAI has
agreed to maintain a general partner s interest of at least 1% of the total
capital of the unitized series in the Partnership. MLAI and each Limited
Partner share in the profits and losses of the Partnership in proportion to
their respective interests in the Partnership.  

Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements as well as the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.  

Revenue Recognition   

Commodity futures, options on futures and forward
contract transactions are recorded on trade date and open contracts are
reflected in Net unrealized profit on open contracts in the Statements of
Financial Condition as the difference between the original contract value and
the market value (for those commodity interests for which market quotations are
readily available). The change in unrealized profit on open contracts from one
period to the next is reflected in Change in unrealized in the Statements of Operations.  

Foreign Currency Transactions   

The Partnership s functional currency is the U.S.
dollar; however, it transacts business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
Assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are
translated into U.S. dollars at the rates in effect at the dates of the
Statements of Financial Condition. Income and expense items denominated in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the
rates in effect during the period. Gains and losses resulting from the
translation to U.S. dollars are reported in Realized in the Statements of Operations.  

6  

Cash at Broker   

A portion of the assets maintained at MLPF S is
restricted to meet maintenance requirements. Typically, margin requirements
range from 5% to 25% of the face value of the derivatives traded.  

Operating Expenses, Ongoing Offering Costs and Selling
Commissions    

MLAI pays for all routine operating costs (including
legal, accounting, printing, postage and similar administrative expenses) of
the Partnership, including the costs, if any, of the ongoing offering of the
Units. MLAI receives an administrative fee as well as a portion of the
brokerage commissions paid to MLPF S by the Partnership.  

No selling commissions have been or are paid directly
by Limited Partners. All selling commissions are paid by MLAI.  

Income Taxes   

No provision for income taxes has been made in these
financial statements as each Partner is individually responsible for reporting
income or loss based on such Partner s respective share of the Partnership s
income and expenses as reported for income tax purposes.  

Distributions   

The Limited Partners are entitled to receive, equally
per Unit, any distributions which may be made by the Partnership. No such
distributions have been declared for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 or
2003.  

Subscriptions   

Units are offered as of the close of business at the
end of each month. Units are purchased as of the first business day of any
month at Net Asset Value, but the subscription request must be submitted at
least ten calendar days before the end of the preceding month. Subscriptions
submitted less than ten days before the end of a month will be applied to Unit
subscriptions as of the beginning of the second month after receipt, unless
revoked by MLAI.  

Redemptions   

A Limited Partner may redeem some or all of such
Partner s Units at Net Asset Value as of the close of business on the last
business day of any calendar month upon ten calendar days  notice. Units
redeemed on or prior to the end of the twelfth full month after purchase are
assessed an early redemption charge of 3% of their Net Asset Value as of the
date of redemption.  

Dissolution of the Partnership   

The Partnership will terminate on December 31, 2023 or
at an earlier date if certain conditions occur, as well as under certain other
circumstances as set forth in the Limited Partnership Agreement.  

7  

Indemnifications   

In the normal course of business, the Partnership
enters into contracts and agreements that contain a variety of representations
and warranties and which provide general indemnifications. The Partnership s
maximum exposure under these arrangements is unknown, as this would involve
future claims that may be made against the Partnership that have not yet
occurred. The Partnership expects the risk of any future obligation under these
indemnifications to be remote.  

8  

2.                  CONDENSED
SCHEDULES OF INVESTMENTS 

The Partnership s investments, defined as Net
unrealized profit on open contracts on the Statements of Financial Condition,
as of December 31, 2005, and 2004, are as follows:  

2005   

2004   

No individual contract s unrealized gain or loss
comprised greater than 5% of the Partner s capital as of December 31, 2005 or
2004.  

9  

3.                  RELATED PARTY
TRANSACTIONS 

The
Partnership s U.S. dollar assets are maintained at MLPF S. On assets held in
U.S. dollars, Merrill Lynch credits the Partnership with interest at the
prevailing 91-day U.S. Treasury bill rate. The Partnership is credited with
interest on any of its net gains actually held by MLPF S in non-U.S. dollar
currencies at a prevailing local rate received by Merrill Lynch. Merrill Lynch
may derive certain economic benefit, in excess of the interest which Merrill
Lynch pays to the Partnership, from possession of such assets.   

Merrill Lynch charges the Partnership Merrill Lynch s
cost of financing realized and unrealized losses on the Partnership s non-U.S.
dollar denominated positions. Such amounts are netted against interest income
due to the insignificance of such amounts.  

As of February 1, 2004, the Partnership was made
available for new investment. Series A and F units pay brokerage commissions to
MLPF S at a flat monthly rate of .583 of 1% (a 7.00% annual rate) of the
Series  month-end trading assets. Series I pays brokerage commissions to
MLPF S at a flat monthly rate of .333 of 1% (a 4.00% annual rate) of the
Series  month-end trading assets. The Partnership pays MLAI a monthly
administrative fee of .021 of 1% (a 0.25% annual rate) of the Partnership s
month-end trading assets. Month-end trading assets are not reduced, for
purposes of calculating brokerage commissions and administrative fees, by any
accrued brokerage commissions, administrative fees, Profit Shares or other fees
or charges. Prior to February 1, 2004 the brokerage commissions on Series F was
a monthly rate of .604 of 1% (a 7.25% annual rate). Brokerage commissions for
the non-unitized series range from .604 of 1% (a 7.25% annual rate) to .729 of
1% (a 8.75% annual rate).  

MLAI estimates that the round-turn equivalent
commission rate charged to the Partnership by MLPF S during the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was approximately $39, $90 and $84,
respectively (not including, in calculating round-turn equivalents, forward
contracts on a futures-equivalent basis).  

MLPF S pays the Advisors annual consulting fees
ranging up to 2.00% of the Partnership s average month-end assets allocated to
them for management, after reduction for a portion of the brokerage commissions
accrued with respect to such assets.  

Prior to January 1, 2004, the Partnership paid to MLIM
LLC an Incentive Override equal to 10% of the Net New Gain, as defined. Such
payments were also made to MLIM LLC from the redemption value of Units redeemed
as of the end of interim months during a year, to the extent of any Net New
Gain attributable to such Units when redeemed. For the year ended December 31,
2003, an Incentive Override of $805,634 was paid to MLIM LLC.  

Due to affiliate on the Statement of Financial
Condition relates to cash assets held in accounts relating to a previously
liquidated fund and the general partners investments in that fund. This amount
will be paid to MLAI upon the legal liquidation of the affiliated fund.  

4.                  ADVISORY AGREEMENTS 

The Partnership and the Advisors have each entered
into Advisory Agreements. These Advisory Agreements generally renew one year
after they are entered into, subject to certain renewal rights exercisable by
the Partnership. The Advisors determine the commodity futures, options on
futures and forward contract trades to be made on behalf of their respective
Partnership accounts, subject to certain trading policies and to certain rights
reserved by MLAI.  

10  

Profit Shares, generally ranging from 20% to 25% of
any New Trading Profit, as defined, recognized by each Advisor considered
individually, irrespective of the overall performance of the Partnership, as of
either the end of each calendar quarter or year and upon the net reallocation
of assets away from an Advisor, are paid by the Partnership to each Advisor. Profit
Shares are also paid out in respect of Units redeemed as of the end of interim
months, to the extent of the applicable percentage of any New Trading Profit
attributable to such Units.  

5.                  WEIGHTED AVERAGE
UNITS 

The weighted average
number of Units outstanding is computed for purposes of disclosing net income
(loss) per weighted average Unit. The weighted average number of Units
outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 equals the
Units outstanding as of such date, adjusted proportionately for Units sold and
redeemed based on the respective length of time each was outstanding during the
year.  

6.                  UNITIZED AND
NON-UNITIZED SERIES 

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Net Asset Values of
the different unitized series and the partners holding the non-unitized series
of the Partnership are as follows:  

December 31, 2005  

Unitized Series   

Non-unitized Series   

11  

December 31, 2004  

Effective January 1, 2005, three funds (the  Feeder
Funds ) in which MLAI is general partner or sponsor invested their net assets
in a non-unitized series of the Partnership. The Feeder Funds are all closed to
new investment and are segregated from other subscriptions as the non-unitized
series. At the point of contribution, the total investment by the Feeder Funds
was $97,084,491.  

7.                  COPPER
SETTLEMENT 

The Partnership, as a member of
a class of plaintiffs, received a settlement payment in February 2005 relating
to certain copper trades made by a number of investors, including the Partnership,
during a period in the mid-1990s. Members of the class were those who purchased
or sold Comex copper futures or options contracts between June 24, 1993 and
June 15, 1996. The amount of the settlement for the Partnership was $27,888,
which is included in Realized under Trading profits (losses) on the Statement
of Operations of the Partnership for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

8.                  FAIR VALUE AND OFF-BALANCE
SHEET RISK 

The nature of this
Partnership has certain risks, which cannot all be presented on the financial
statements. The following summarizes some of those risks.  

Market Risk   

Derivative instruments involve varying degrees of
off-balance sheet market risk. Changes in the level or volatility of interest
rates, foreign currency exchange rates or the market values of the financial
instruments or commodities underlying open contracts frequently result in
changes in the Partnership s net unrealized profit on such derivative
instruments as reflected in the Statements of Financial Condition. The
Partnership s exposure to market risk is influenced by a number of factors,
including the relationships among the derivative instruments held by the
Partnership as well as the volatility and liquidity of the markets in which the
derivative instruments are traded.  

MLAI has procedures in place intended to control
market risk exposure, although there can be no assurance that they will, in
fact, succeed in doing so. These procedures focus primarily on monitoring the
trading of the Advisors, calculating the Net Asset Values of the Partnership as
of the close of business on each day and reviewing outstanding positions for
over-concentrations. While MLAI does not itself intervene in the markets to
hedge or diversify the Partnership s market exposure, MLAI may urge the
Advisors to reallocate positions in an attempt to avoid over-concentrations. However,
such interventions are unusual and unless it appears that the Advisors have
begun to deviate from past practice or trading policies or to be trading
erratically, MLAI s basic risk control procedures consist simply of the ongoing
process of advisor monitoring, with the market risk controls being applied by
the Advisors themselves.  

12  

Credit Risk   

The risks associated with exchange-traded contracts
are typically perceived to be less than those associated with over-the-counter
(non-exchange-traded) transactions, because exchanges typically (but not
universally) provide clearinghouse arrangements in which the collective credit
(in some cases limited in amount, in some cases not) of the members of the
exchange is pledged to support the financial integrity of the exchange. In
over-the-counter transactions, on the other hand, traders must rely solely on
the credit of their respective individual counterparties. Margins, which may be
subject to loss in the event of a default, are generally required in exchange
trading, and counterparties may also require margin in the over-the-counter
markets.  

The credit risk associated with these instruments from
counterparty nonperformance is the net unrealized profit on open contracts,
included in the Statements of Financial Condition. The Partnership attempts to
mitigate this risk by dealing exclusively with Merrill Lynch entities as clearing
brokers.  

The Partnership, in its normal course of business,
enters into various contracts with MLPF S acting as its commodity broker. Pursuant
to the brokerage agreement with MLPF S (which includes a netting
arrangement), to the extent that such trading results in receivables from and
payables to MLPF S, these receivables and payables are offset and reported
as a net receivable or payable and included in Net unrealized profit on open
contracts on the Statements of Financial Condition.  

9.                  SUBSEQUENT
EVENT 

On February 15, 2006, Merrill Lynch and BlackRock, Inc
( BlackRock ) announced that they have reached an agreement to merge the asset
management business of MLIM and BlackRock to create a new independent asset
management company. The transaction has been approved by the boards of
directors of both Merrill Lynch and BlackRock and is expected to close in the
third quarter of 2006. As a result of the transaction, the combined company
will become the general partner or sponsor of the Partnership.  

13  

*   *  
*   *   *  
*   *    *  
*   *   *  
*   *  

To the best of the knowledge and belief of the  

  undersigned, the information contained in this  

  report is accurate and complete.  

Michael Pungello  

  Chief Financial Officer  

  Merrill Lynch Alternative Investments LLC  

  General Partner of  

  ML Global Horizons L.P.  

14  

</EX-13.01(A)>

<EX-31.01>
 4
 a06-7497_5ex31d01.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.01   

RULE
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) CERTIFICATIONS    

I, Robert M. Alderman, certify that:  

1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of ML Principal Protection
L.P.;  

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant
as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:  

a) Designed such disclosure controls
and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared;   

b) Evaluated the effectiveness of
the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and   

c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and  

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s
board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a)   All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which
are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and  

b) Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 31, 2006  

By  

/s/ ROBERT M. ALDERMAN  

Robert M. Alderman  

Chief Executive Officer, President and Manager  

(Principal Executive Officer)   

</EX-31.01>

<EX-31.02>
 5
 a06-7497_5ex31d02.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.02   

RULE
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) CERTIFICATIONS    

I, Michael L. Pungello, certify that:  

1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of ML Principal Protection
L.P.;  

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant
as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:  

a) Designed such disclosure controls
and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared;   

b) Evaluated the effectiveness of
the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and   

c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and  

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s
board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,
summarize and report financial information; and  

b) Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 31, 2006  

By  

/s/ MICHAEL L. PUNGELLO  

Michael L. Pungello  

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  

and Treasurer  

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  

</EX-31.02>

<EX-32.01>
 6
 a06-7497_5ex32d01.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.01   

SECTION
1350 CERTIFICATION    

In connection with this annual report of ML Principal
Protection L.P. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof
(this  Report ), I, Robert M. Alderman, Chief Executive Officer, President and
Manager of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

1. This Report containing the financial statements fully complies with
the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934; and  

2. The information contained in this Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.  

Date: March 31, 2006  

By  

/s/ ROBERT M. ALDERMAN  

Robert M. Alderman  

Chief Executive Officer, President and Manager  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

</EX-32.01>

<EX-32.02>
 7
 a06-7497_5ex32d02.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.02   

SECTION
1350 CERTIFICATION    

In connection with this annual report of ML Principal
Protection L.P. ( the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (this  Report ), I, Michael L. Pungello, Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
1350, as adopted pursuant of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

1. This Report containing
the financial statements fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

2. The information contained in this Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.  

Date: March 31, 2006  

By  

/s/ MICHAEL L. PUNGELLO  

Michael L. Pungello  

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  

and Treasurer  

(Principal Financial and Accounting Offi)  

</EX-32.02>

