<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_892222_0000891020-06-000075_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>962830</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>301014</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4978</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>444081</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>62</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000891020-06-000075.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331163011
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000891020-06-000075
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			REDHOOK ALE BREWERY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000892222
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MALT BEVERAGES [2082]
		IRS NUMBER:				911141254
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-26542
		FILM NUMBER:		06729306

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		14300 NE 145TH ST
		STREET 2:		STE 210
		CITY:			WOODINVILLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98072
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4254833232

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		14300 NE 145TH ST
		STREET 2:		STE 210
		CITY:			WOODINVILLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98072

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BHVyInrXOHfred/wSuC1mUlzsO2sOWZdld8qNPxDmm6ufDLmrmiqdE2/UA6h85RO
 FWu8+IyCXmaYicGAqf2OKQ==

 0000891020-06-000075.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 v17800e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form  10-K  

Commission file number 0-26542 

Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

(425) 483-3232 

(Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act: 

None 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act: 

Common Stock, Par Value $0.005 Per Share 

(Title of Class) 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation  S-K  is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this
Form  10-K  or any
amendment to this
Form  10-K.        

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated
filer. Check one:

Large Accelerated
Filer                        Accelerated
Filer                        Non-accelerated
Filer   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange
Act).     Yes              No   

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant as of the last day of the
registrant s most recently completed second quarter on
June 30, 2005 (based upon the closing sale price of the
registrant s Common Stock, as reported by The Nasdaq Stock
Market) was $16,160,927. (1)

The number of shares of the registrant s Common Stock
outstanding as of March 17, 2006 was 8,228,339.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement relating to
the registrant s 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on May 23, 2006 are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Report.

(1)  
     
    Excludes shares held of record on that date by directors and
    executive officers and greater than 10% shareholders of the
    registrant. Exclusion of such shares should not be construed to
    indicate that any such person directly or indirectly possesses
    the power to direct or cause the direction of the management of
    the policies of the registrant. 

Table of Contents   

Explanatory Note 

On March 23, 2006, Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated (the
 Company ) filed a Current Report on
Form  8-K  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, announcing that it would be
restating previously reported financial statements to correct an
error as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004. As
more fully described in Note 2 to the Financial Statements
included in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K,  the
Company inadvertently overstated its net operating tax loss
carryforwards ( NOLs ) with the state of New Hampshire
by recording NOLs in excess of limits prescribed by state law,
leading to an understatement of the Company s income tax
provision and an overstatement of the Company s deferred
tax asset, which was netted against the Company s deferred
income tax liability on the Company s balance sheet. The
disclosure in Items 6, 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  reflects
correction of this overstatement.

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

FORM  10-K  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page    

PART I.   

ITEM 1. 

Business 

1 

ITEM 1A. 

Risk Factors 

19 

ITEM 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

23 

ITEM 2. 

Properties 

24 

ITEM 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

24 

ITEM 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

24 

ITEM 4A. 

Executive Officers of the Company 

25 

PART II.   

ITEM 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters 
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

26 

ITEM 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

27 

ITEM 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition 
    and Results of Operations 

29 

ITEM 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    about Market Risk 

47 

ITEM 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data 

48 

ITEM 9. 

Changes In and Disagreements With
    Accountants on Accounting 
    and Financial Disclosure 

74 

ITEM 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

74 

ITEM 9B. 

Other Information 

75 

PART III.   

ITEM 10. 

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant 

75 

ITEM 11. 

Executive Compensation 

75 

ITEM 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management 
    and Related Stockholders Matters 

76 

ITEM 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions 

76 

ITEM 14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

76 

PART IV.   

ITEM 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules 

76 

SIGNATURES  

82 

EXHIBIT 10.22    
     EXHIBIT 23.1    
     EXHIBIT 23.2    
     EXHIBIT 23.3    
     EXHIBIT 31.1    
     EXHIBIT 31.2    
     EXHIBIT 32.1    
     EXHIBIT 32.2    

i

Table of Contents   

PART I. 

Item 1.  
     
      Business   

Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated ( Redhook  or the
 Company ) has been an independent brewer of craft
beers in the United States since the Company s formation in
1981 and is considered to be one of the pioneers of the domestic
craft brewing segment. Redhook produces its specialty bottled
and draft products in two Company-owned breweries, one in the
Seattle suburb of Woodinville, Washington (the  Washington
Brewery ) and the other in Portsmouth, New Hampshire (the
 New Hampshire Brewery ). By operating its own
small-batch breweries, the Company believes that it is better
able to control the quantities, types and flavors of beer
produced, while optimizing the quality and consistency of its
products. Management believes that the Company s production
capacity is of high quality and that Redhook is the only
domestic craft brewer that owns and operates substantial
production facilities in both the western region and eastern
region of the United States.

The Company currently produces nine styles of beer, marketed
under distinct brand names. The Company s flagship brand is
 Redhook ESB  and its other principal products include
 Redhook India Pale Ale (IPA) ,  Redhook Blonde Ale,
Blackhook Porter, Chinook Copper Ale , and its seasonal
offerings  Redhook Nut Brown Ale, Redhook Sunrye, Autumn Ale
 and  Winterhook.  The Company also produces and sells
 Widmer Hefeweizen  in the midwest and eastern United
States under a 2003 licensing agreement with Widmer Brothers
Brewing Company ( Widmer ). In addition to its
principal products, the Company periodically develops and
markets new products to test and measure consumer response to
varying styles and flavors.

Since July 2004, the Company has distributed its products in the
western United States through Craft Brands Alliance LLC
( Craft Brands ), a joint venture between the Company
and Widmer. See  Product Distribution  
Relationship with Craft Brands Alliance LLC  below. In the
midwest and eastern United States, the Company has continued to
distribute its products through a distribution agreement with
Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated ( A-B ). See
 Product Distribution   Relationship with
Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated  below.

Industry Background 

The Company is a brewer in the relatively small craft brewing
segment of the United States brewing industry. The domestic beer
market is comprised of ales and lagers produced by large
domestic brewers, international brewers and craft brewers.
Although 2005 production and 2004 production of craft beer is
estimated by industry sources to have increased by approximately
9% and 7%, respectively, over the previous year s
production, the share of the domestic beer sales market held by
the craft beer segment remains small. Craft beer shipments in
2005, 2004 and 2003 were approximately 3.5%, 3.2% and 3.2%,
respectively, of total beer shipped in the United States.
Approximately 7.11 million, 6.53 million and
6.56 million barrels were shipped in the U.S. by the
craft beer segment during 2005, 2004 and 2003, while total beer
sold in the U.S., including imported beer, was approximately
205.5 million, 206.1 million and 204.0 million
barrels, respectively. The number of craft brewers in the
U.S. grew dramatically between 1994 and 2000, increasing
from 627 participants at the end of 1994 and peaking at nearly
1,500 in 2000. At the end of 2005, the estimated number of craft
brewers was 1,334.

In the early 1900s, the U.S. brewing industry was comprised
of nearly 2,000 breweries, most of which were small operations
that produced distinctive beers for local markets. Fewer than
1,000 of these breweries reopened following Prohibition. During
the ensuing decades, the beer industry concentrated its
resources primarily on marketing pale lagers and pilsners for
various reasons, including: the desire to appeal to the broadest
possible segment of the population; to benefit from economies of
scale through large-scale production techniques; to prolong
shelf life through use of pasteurization processes; and to take
advantage of mass media advertising reaching consumers
nationwide. At the same time that the beer industry was
narrowing its product offerings to compete more effectively,
there was also extensive consolidation occurring in the
industry, still apparent in today s market composition.
According to industry sources, the three largest domestic
brewers accounted for approximately 79% of total beer shipped in
the United States, including imports, in 2005.

1

Table of Contents   

Annual per capita domestic beer consumption has declined from
the highs experienced in the early 1980s, a result of an
elevated concern over health and safety issues, changing tastes,
and evolving affluence and consumption attitudes of a maturing
generation of beer drinkers born after World War II. Since
the early 1980s, a sizable number of consumers have migrated
away from the major domestic products toward a broader taste and
variety in their malt beverages, mirroring similar trends in
other beverage and cuisine categories. Foreign brewers initially
benefited from these evolving consumption patterns. Despite also
being produced by large brewers, some of the principal European,
Canadian and Mexican imported beers offered a fuller-flavored
alternative to the national brands produced in the United States.

By the latter half of the 1980s, a substantial new domestic
industry segment had developed in response to the increasing
consumer demand for specialty beers. Across the country, a
proliferation of regional specialty brewers (annually selling
more than 15,000 barrels but less than two million barrels
of craft beer brewed at their own facilities), contract brewers
(selling craft beer brewed by a third party to the contract
brewer s specifications), microbreweries (selling less than
15,000 barrels per year), and brewpubs (combination
restaurant-breweries) emerged to form the craft beer industry.
This new segment was able to deliver the fuller flavored
products presented by the imported beers while still offering a
fresher product than most imports and one that could appeal to
local taste preferences. Craft beer producers tend to
concentrate on fuller flavors and less on appealing to mass
markets. The strength of consumer demand has enabled certain
craft brewers, such as the Company, to evolve from
microbreweries into regional and national specialty brewers by
constructing larger breweries while still adhering to the
traditional European brewing methods that typically characterize
the craft brewing segment. Industry sources estimate that craft
beer produced by regional specialty brewers, such as the
Company, accounts for approximately two thirds of total craft
beer sales. Other craft brewers have sought to take advantage of
growing consumer demand and excess industry capacity, when
available, by contract brewing at underutilized facilities.

Since its formation in the 1980s, the rate at which the craft
beer segment has grown has fluctuated. The late 1980s and early
1990s were years of significant growth for the segment, only to
be followed by several years of minimal growth in the late 1990s
and early 2000s. Recent industry reports for 2004 and 2005
performance, however, indicate favorable trends once again. The
craft beer segment s success has been impacted, both
positively and negatively, by the success of the larger
specialty beer category as well as the domestic alcoholic
beverage market. Imported beers have enjoyed a resurgence in
demand since the mid-1990s. Certain national domestic brewers
have increased the competition by producing their own
fuller-flavored products to compete against craft beers. In 2001
and 2002, flavored malt beverages were introduced to the market,
initially gaining significant interest but recently experiencing
smaller returns. Finally, the wine and spirits market has seen a
surge in recent years, attributable to competitive pricing,
television advertising, increased merchandising, and increased
consumer interest in wine and spirits.

Business Strategy 

Redhook strives to be the preeminent specialty craft brewing
company in the United States, producing the highest quality ale
products in company-owned facilities, marketing and selling them
responsibly through its three-tier distribution system.

The central elements of the Company s business strategy
include:

Production of High-Quality Craft Beers.  The Company is
committed to the production of a variety of distinctive,
flavorful craft beers. The Company brews its craft beers
according to traditional European brewing styles and methods,
using only high-quality ingredients to brew in company-owned and
operated brewing facilities. As a symbol of quality, the
Company s products are Kosher certified by the Orthodox
Union, a certification rarely sought by other brewers. The
Company does not intend to compete directly in terms of
production style, pricing or extensive mass-media advertising
typical of large national brands.

Control of Production in Company-Owned Breweries.  The
Company builds, owns and operates its own brewing facilities to
optimize the quality and consistency of its products and to
achieve the greatest control over its production costs.
Management believes that its ability to engage in ongoing
product innovation and to control product quality are critical
competitive advantages. The Company s highly automated
breweries are

2

Table of Contents   

designed to produce beer in small batches, while attaining
production economies through automation rather than scale. The
Company believes that its investment in technology enables it to
optimize employee productivity, to contain related operating
costs, to produce innovative beer styles and tastes, and to
achieve the production flexibility afforded by small-batch
brewing, with minimal loss of efficiency and process reliability.

Strategic Distribution Relationship with Industry Leader. 
Since October 1994, the Company has benefited from a
distribution relationship with A-B, pursuant to which Redhook
distributes its products in substantially all of its markets
through A-B s wholesale distribution network. A-B s
domestic network consists of more than 570 independent wholesale
distributors, most of which are geographically contiguous and
independently owned and operated, and 15 branches owned and
operated by A-B. This distribution relationship with A-B has
offered efficiencies in delivery of product, state reporting and
licensing, billing and collections. The Company believes that
the existence of the distribution relationship with A-B has also
provided the Company with access to A-B distributors at
A-B s distributor conventions, communications about Redhook
in printed distributor materials and A-B-supported opportunities
for Redhook to educate A-B distributors about the Company s
specialty products. The Company believes that the opportunities
to access A-B distributors has benefited the Company by creating
increased awareness of and demand for Redhook products among A-B
distributors. The Company is able to reap the benefits of this
distribution relationship with A-B while, as an independent
company, maintaining control over the production and marketing
of its products.

Sales and Marketing Relationship with Craft Brands Alliance
LLC.  On July  1, 2004, the Company entered into
agreements with Widmer, headquartered in Portland, Oregon, to
form a joint sales and marketing organization that serves both
companies  operations in the western United States. The
joint organization, named Craft Brands Alliance LLC, advertises,
markets, sells and distributes both Redhook s and
Widmer s products to wholesale outlets through a
distribution agreement between Craft Brands and A-B. Management
believes that, in addition to achieving certain synergies, Craft
Brands capitalizes on both companies  sales and marketing
skills and complementary product portfolios. The Company
believes that the combination of the two brewers 
complementary brand portfolios, led by one focused sales and
marketing organization, will not only deliver financial
benefits, but will also deliver greater impact at the point of
sale.

Operation of Regional Brewing Facilities.  Management
believes that, by locating its production facilities in
proximity to the key regional markets it serves, the Company is
able to enjoy distinct competitive advantages. Shortened
delivery times maximize product freshness and reduce shipping
costs. Established brand awareness of the Company s
products and enhanced familiarity with local consumer tastes
enable the Company to offer select products that appeal to
regional preferences. By pursuing this strategy, Redhook
believes that it will be able to preserve its reputation and
prestige as a regional craft brewer.

Promotion of Products.  The Company promotes its products
through a variety of advertising programs with its wholesalers,
by training and educating wholesalers and retailers about the
Company s products, through promotions at local festivals,
venues, and pubs, by utilizing its pubs located at the
Company s two breweries, through price discounting, and,
more recently, through Craft Brands. Craft Brands is responsible
for promotion, advertising and marketing in the western United
States and uses methods similar to the Company in its promotion
of Redhook products. In the midwest and eastern United States,
the Company s principal advertising programs include radio,
billboards and print advertising (magazines, newspapers,
industry publications). The Company also markets its products to
distributors, retailers and consumers through a variety of
specialized training and promotional methods, including training
sessions for distributors and retailers in understanding the
brewing process, the craft beer segment and Redhook products.
Promotional methods directed towards consumers include
introducing Redhook products on draft in pubs and restaurants,
using promotional items including tap handles, glassware and
coasters, and participating in local festivals and sports venues
to increase brand name recognition. In addition, the
Company s prominently located breweries feature pubs and
retail outlets and offer guided tours to further increase
consumer awareness of Redhook.

The Company will occasionally enter into advertising and
promotion programs where the entire program is funded by the
Company but, in recent years, has favored co-operative programs
where the Company s spending is matched with an investment
by a local distributor. Co-operative programs align the
interests of the

3

Table of Contents   

Company with those of the wholesaler whose local market
knowledge contributes to more effective promotions. Sharing
these efforts with a wholesaler helps the Company to leverage
the investment made on programs where the participating
wholesaler has a vested interest in the program s success.

Products 

The Company produces a variety of specialty craft beers using
traditional European brewing methods. The Company brews its
beers using only high-quality hops, malted barley, wheat, rye
and other natural ingredients, and does not use any rice, corn,
sugar, syrups or other adjuncts. The Company s beers are
marketed on the basis of freshness and distinctive flavor
profiles. To help maintain full flavor, the Company s
products are not pasteurized. As a result, it is appropriate
that they be kept cool so that oxidation and heat-induced aging
will not adversely affect the original taste, and that they be
distributed and served as soon as possible, generally within
three months after packaging to maximize freshness and flavor.
The Company distributes its products only in glass bottles and
kegs, and its products are freshness dated for the benefit of
wholesalers and consumers.

The Company presently produces nine principal brands, each with
its own distinctive combination of flavor, color and clarity:

Redhook ESB.  The Company s flagship brand,
 Redhook ESB,  which accounted for approximately 47% of the
Company s sales in 2005, is a full, rich, well-rounded,
amber-colored ale with a sweet toasted malt flavor balanced by a
pleasant floral liveliness derived from German Tettnang hops.

Redhook India Pale Ale (IPA).  A premium English,
pub-style bitter ale,  Redhook IPA,  accounted for
approximately 18% of the Company s sales in 2005.
 Redhook IPA  is pale and aggressively hopped, has a brassy
color imparted by caramelized malt, an herbal aroma
characteristic of Northwest Cascade hops and a crisp finish.

Redhook Blonde Ale.  A delicious, thirst-quenching golden
ale, the combination of lightly roasted barley, subtle hops, and
a touch of wheat creates a perfectly balanced and distinctively
drinkable ale.

Blackhook Porter.  A London-style porter,  Blackhook
 has an ebony tone, a pleasant  toasted  character
produced by highly roasted barley, and a dark malt flavor
suggesting coffee and chocolate, balanced by lively hopping.

Chinook Copper Ale.  Brewed in small batches exclusively
for the Northwest, this ale is lightly unfiltered so beer
drinkers can enjoy the full flavor characteristics.  Chinook
Copper  is appetizingly fruity with light maltiness and a
very pleasant piney hint in the aroma. It has a beautiful
opalescence from a small amount of yeast suspended in the beer.

Nut Brown Ale.  A malty ale with a hint of sweetness in
the finish. The combination of six barley malts and two hop
varieties results in a surprisingly smooth, well-balanced dark
beer.  Nut Brown Ale   is available in the Company s
midwest and eastern markets in late winter and early spring.

Redhook Sunrye Ale.  Gently roasted barley, delicate hops
and a touch of rye combine for a very balanced lighter style
ale. Slightly unfiltered to exude a pearl glow,  Sunrye  is
styled for warm weather refreshment.  Sunrye  is available
from April through September in western markets and April
through July in midwest and eastern markets.

Autumn Ale.  A roasted malt aroma and distinct flavors of
the Northern Brewer and Saaz hops mark this full-bodied ale. The
two row barley foundation malt gives  Autumn Ale  its full
body. The specialty malts    Crystal, German
Smoked Munich, Caramel and Roasted   give it a rich
complexity.  Autumn Ale  is available August to September
in midwest and eastern markets.

Winterhook.  A rich, seasonal holiday ale formulated
specially each year for cold-weather enjoyment,  Winterhook
 typically is deep in color and rich in flavor, with complex
flavors and a warm finish. Typically, the Company changes the
style of this ale each year.  Winterhook  is available
during fall and winter months.

4

Table of Contents   

The Company also produces  Widmer Hefeweizen  in the
midwest and eastern United States under license from Widmer.
 Widmer Hefeweizen  is a golden unfiltered wheat beer and
is one of the leading American style Hefeweizens sold in the
U.S. In 2003, the Company entered into a licensing
agreement with Widmer to produce and sell the  Widmer
Hefeweizen  brand in states east of the Mississippi River. In
March 2005, the  Widmer Hefeweizen  distribution territory
was expanded to include all of the Company s midwest and
eastern markets. Brewing of this product is conducted at the New
Hampshire Brewery under the supervision and assistance of
Widmer s brewing staff to insure their brand s quality
and matching taste profile. The term of this agreement is for
five years, with an additional one-year automatic renewal unless
either party elects to terminate the arrangement. The agreement
may be terminated by either party at any time without cause
pursuant to 150 days notice or for cause by either party
under certain conditions. During the term of this agreement,
Redhook will not brew, advertise, market, or distribute any
product that is labeled or advertised as a
 Hefeweizen  or any similar product in the agreed upon
midwest and eastern territory. Brewing and selling of
Redhook s Hefe-weizen was discontinued in conjunction with
this agreement. The Company believes that the agreement
increases capacity utilization and has strengthened the
Company s product portfolio. The Company shipped 26,000,
18,000 and 12,000 barrels of  Widmer Hefeweizen
 during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively. A licensing fee of $399,000, $266,000 and
$166,000 due to Widmer is reflected in the Company s
statement of operations for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Shipments to the expanded
territory are excluded from the computation of the licensing fee
due to Widmer.

The Company also produces  Pacific Ridge  in the western
United States. In 2003, the Company entered into a purchase and
sale agreement with A-B for the purchase of the  Pacific Ridge
 brand, trademark and related intellectual property. In
consideration, the Company agreed to pay A-B a fee for
20 years based upon the Company s sales of the brand.
The Company shipped 6,000 and 5,400 barrels of  Pacific
Ridge  during 2005 and 2004, respectively. A fee of $83,000
and $80,000 due to A-B is reflected in the Company s
statement of operations for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively.

In an effort to be responsive to varying consumer style and
flavor preferences, the Company periodically engages in the
development and testing of new products. The Company believes
that the continued success of craft brewers will be affected by
their ability to be innovative and attentive to consumer desires
for new and distinctive taste experiences while maintaining
consistently high product quality. The Company s breweries
allow it to produce small-batch experimental ales within three
weeks. Experimental products are periodically developed and
typically produced in draft form only for on-premise test
marketing at the Company s pubs and selected retail sites.
If the initial consumer reception of an experimental brew is
sufficiently positive, then its taste and formula are refined,
as necessary, and a new Redhook brand may be created.  Redhook
IPA, Redhook Blonde Ale  and many of the Company s
seasonal offerings are examples of products that were developed
in this manner.

Brewing Operations 

The Brewing Process.  Beer is made primarily from four
natural ingredients: malted grain, hops, yeast and water. The
grain most commonly used in brewing is barley, owing to its
distinctive germination characteristics that make it easy to
ferment. The Company uses the finest barley malt, using strains
of barley having two rows of grain in each ear. A wide variety
of hops may be used to add seasoning to the brew; some varieties
best confer bitterness, while others are chosen for their
ability to impart distinctive aromas to the beer. Nearly all the
yeasts used to induce or augment fermentation of beer are of the
species  Saccharomyces cerevisiae,  which includes both the
top-fermenting yeasts used in ale production and the
bottom-fermenting yeasts associated with lagers.

The brewing process begins when the malt supplier soaks the
barley grain in water, thereby initiating germination, and then
dries and cures the grain through kilning. This process, known
as malting, breaks down complex carbohydrates and proteins so
that they can be easily extracted. The malting process also
imparts color and flavor characteristics to the grain. The cured
grain, referred to as malt, is then sold to the brewery. At the
brewery, various malts are cracked by milling, and mixed with
warm water. This mixture, or mash, is heated and stirred in the
mash tun, allowing the simple carbohydrates and proteins to be
converted into

5

Table of Contents   

fermentable sugars. Naturally occurring enzymes help facilitate
this process. The mash is then strained and rinsed in the lauter
tun to produce a residual liquid, high in fermentable sugars,
called wort, which then flows into a brew kettle to be boiled
and concentrated. Hops are added during the boil to impart
bitterness, balance and aroma. The specific mixture of hops and
the brewing time and temperature further affect the flavor of
the beer. After the boil, the wort is strained and cooled before
it is moved to a fermentation cellar, where specially cultured
yeast is added to induce fermentation. During fermentation, the
wort s sugars are metabolized by the yeast, producing
carbon dioxide and alcohol. Some of the carbon dioxide is
recaptured and absorbed back into the beer, providing a natural
source of carbonation. After fermentation, the beer is cooled
for several days while the beer is clarified and full flavor
develops. Filtration, the final step for a filtered beer,
removes unwanted yeast. At this point, the beer is in its peak
condition and ready for bottling or keg racking. The entire
brewing process of ales, from mashing through filtration, is
typically completed in 14 to 21 days, depending on the
formulation and style of the product being brewed.

[REDHOOK ALE BREW PROCESS GRAPHIC]

Brewing Equipment.  The Company uses highly automated
small-batch brewing equipment. The Washington Brewery employs a
 100-barrel  mash tun,
lauter tun, wort receiver, wort kettle, whirlpool kettle, five
70,000-pound, one 35,000-pound and two 25,000-pound grain silos,
two  100-barrel, 
fifty-four  200-barrel, 
and ten  600-barrel 
fermenters, and two
 300-barrel  and four
 400-barrel  bright
tanks. The New Hampshire Brewery employs a
 100-barrel  mash tun,
lauter tun, wort receiver, wort kettle, whirlpool kettle, three
70,000-pound and two 35,000-pound grain silos, nine
 100-barrel,  two
200 barrel and eighteen
 400-barrel  fermenters,
two  200-barrel  and two
 400-barrel  bright
tanks, and an anaerobic waste-water treatment facility which
completes the process cycle. Both breweries use advanced
microfiltration technology, including a diatomaceous earth pad
filter and sterile filtration.

Packaging.  The Company packages its craft beers in both
bottles and kegs. Both of the Company s breweries have
fully automated bottling and keg lines. The bottle filler at
both breweries utilizes a carbon dioxide environment during
bottling that is designed to ensure that minimal oxygen is
dissolved in the beer, thereby extending product shelf life.

Quality Control.  The Company monitors production and
quality control at both of its breweries, with central
coordination at the Washington Brewery. Both the Washington and
New Hampshire breweries have an

6

Table of Contents   

on-site  laboratory
where microbiologists and lab technicians supervise
 on-site  yeast
propagation, monitor product quality, test products, measure
color and bitterness, and test for oxidation and unwanted
bacteria. The Company also regularly utilizes outside
laboratories for independent product analysis.

Ingredients and Raw Materials.  The Company currently
purchases a significant portion of its malted barley from a
single supplier and its premium-quality select hops, grown in
the Pacific Northwest, Germany and Czech Republic, from
competitive sources. The Company periodically purchases small
lots of European hops that it uses to achieve a special hop
character in certain of its beers. In order to ensure the supply
of the hop varieties used in its products, the Company enters
into supply contracts for its hop requirements. Redhook believes
that comparable quality malted barley and hops are available
from alternate sources at competitive prices, although there can
be no assurance that pricing would be consistent with the
Company s current arrangements. The Company currently
cultivates its own  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  yeast supply
and maintains a separate, secure supply in-house. The Company
has access to multiple competitive sources for packing
materials, such as bottles, labels, six-pack carriers, crowns
and shipping cases.

Product Distribution 

The Company s products are available for sale directly to
consumers in draft and bottles at restaurants, bars and liquor
stores, as well as in bottles at supermarkets, warehouse clubs,
convenience stores and drug stores. Like substantially all craft
brewers, the Company s products are delivered to these
retail outlets through a network of local distributors whose
principal business is the distribution of beer and, in some
cases, other alcoholic beverages, and who traditionally have
distribution relationships with one or more national beer
brands. To promote and educate the public on the Company s
products, Redhook also offers its products directly to consumers
at the Company s two on-premise retail establishments
located at the Company s breweries, the Forecasters Public
House in Woodinville, Washington and the Cataqua Public House in
Portsmouth, New Hampshire.

Prior to establishing a distribution relationship with A-B in
1994, the Company distributed its products regionally through
distributors, many of which were part of the A-B distribution
network, in eight western states: Washington, California
(northern), Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and
Alaska. In October 1994, the Company entered into a distribution
agreement with A-B ( Distribution Alliance  or the
 Alliance ) pursuant to which the Company began
distributing its products, for any new markets entered,
exclusively through this agreement. Existing wholesalers
continued to distribute the Company s products outside of
the Distribution Alliance. By 2003, 72% of the Company s
sales volume was through Alliance distributors.

On July 1, 2004, the Company entered into a new
distribution agreement with A-B (the  A-B Distribution
Agreement ) pursuant to which the Company continues to sell
its product in the midwest and eastern United States through
sales to A-B and distribute its product through the A-B
distribution network.

On July 1, 2004, the Company also entered into agreements
with Widmer with respect to the operation of their joint venture
sales and marketing entity, Craft Brands. Under their agreements
with Craft Brands, the Company manufactures and sells its
product to Craft Brands at a price substantially below wholesale
pricing levels; Craft Brands, in turn, advertises, markets,
sells and distributes the product to wholesale outlets in the
western United States through a distribution agreement between
Craft Brands and A-B.

Currently, there are no Company products distributed by a
wholesaler that are not distributed pursuant to the A-B
Distribution Agreement or the distribution agreement between
Craft Brands and A-B.

For additional information regarding the Company s
relationship with A-B and Craft Brands, see  Relationship
with Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated  and  Relationship
with Craft Brands Alliance LLC  below.

A-B, whose products accounted for approximately 49.5% of total
beer shipped by volume in the United States in 2005,
including imports, distributes its products throughout the
United States through a network of more than 570 independent
wholesale distributors, most of whom are geographically
contiguous and independently owned and operated, and 15 branches
owned and operated by A-B. The Company believes

7

Table of Contents   

that the typical A-B distributor is financially stable and has
both a long-standing presence and a substantial market share of
beer sales in its territory.

Redhook chose to align itself with A-B through the 1994
Distribution Alliance, and again through the 2004 A-B
Distribution Agreement and Craft Brands  distribution
agreement with A-B, to gain access to quality distribution
throughout the United States. The Company was the first and is
the largest independent craft brewer to have a formal
distribution agreement with a major U.S. brewer. Management
believes that the Company s competitors in the craft beer
segment generally negotiate distribution relationships
separately with distributors in each locality and, as a result,
typically distribute through a variety of wholesalers
representing differing national beer brands with uncoordinated
territorial boundaries. Because A-B s distributors are
assigned territories that generally are contiguous, the
distribution relationship with A-B enables the Company to reduce
the gaps and overlaps in distribution coverage often experienced
by the Company s competitors.

In 2005, the Company sold approximately 85,000 barrels to
A-B through the A-B Distribution Agreement, accounting for
approximately 38% of the Company s sales volume for the
period. During this same period, the Company shipped
approximately 126,000 barrels, or 56% of the Company s
sales volume, to Craft Brands.

During the last six months of 2004, the Company sold
approximately 38,000 barrels to A-B through the A-B
Distribution Agreement, accounting for approximately 36% of the
Company s sales volume for the same period. Also during
this same period, the Company shipped approximately
63,600 barrels, or 61% of the Company s sales volume,
to Craft Brands.

For the six months ended June 30, 2004, the Company shipped
its products to 495 Alliance distribution points, accounting for
84,000 barrels, or 74% of the Company s total sales
volume for the same period. In addition, sales through
wholesalers that were part of the A-B distribution network but
that were not part of the Alliance accounted for an additional
22%, or 24,000 barrels, of the Company s sales volume.

The Company s most significant wholesaler, K&L
Distributors, Inc. ( K ), is responsible for
distribution of the Company s products in most of King
County, Washington, including Seattle, Washington. K&L
accounted for approximately 12%, 13% and 13% of total sales
volume in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Shipments of the
Company s product to K&L during all of 2005 and the
last six months of 2004 were made through Craft Brands. Due to
state liquor regulations, the Company sells its product in
Washington state directly to third-party beer distributors and
returns a portion of the revenue to Craft Brands based upon a
contractually determined formula.

Relationship with Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated 

On July 1, 2004, the Company completed the restructuring of
its ongoing relationship with A-B. Pursuant to an exchange and
recapitalization agreement between the Company and A-B (the
 Exchange and Recapitalization Agreement ), the
Company issued 1,808,243 shares of its common stock
( Common Stock ) to A-B in exchange for
1,289,872 shares of Series B Preferred Stock held by
A-B. The Series B Preferred Stock, reflected in the
Company s July 1, 2004 balance sheet at approximately
$16.3 million, was subsequently cancelled. In connection
with the exchange, the Company also paid $2.0 million to
A-B in November 2004. A-B was also granted certain contractual
registration rights with respect to its shares of the
Company s Common Stock. As of December 31, 2005, A-B
owned approximately 33.6% of the Company s Common Stock.

Additionally, pursuant to the Exchange and Recapitalization
Agreement, A-B is entitled to designate two members of the board
of directors of the Company. A-B also generally has the
contractual right to have one of its designees sit on each
committee of the board of directors of the Company. The Exchange
and Recapitalization Agreement contains limitations on, among
other matters, the Company s ability to issue equity
securities or acquire or sell assets or stock, amend its
Articles of Incorporation or bylaws, grant board representation
rights, enter into certain transactions with affiliates,
distribute its products in the United States other than through
A-B, Craft Brands or as provided in the A-B Distribution
Agreement, voluntarily delist or terminate its listing on the
Nasdaq Stock Market, or dispose any of its interest in Craft
Brands, without the

8

Table of Contents   

prior consent of A-B. Further, if the new A-B Distribution
Agreement described below or the distribution agreement between
Craft Brands and A-B is terminated, or the distribution of
Redhook products is terminated by Craft Brands under the
distribution agreement between Craft Brands and A-B, A-B has the
right to solicit and negotiate offers from third parties to
purchase all or substantially all of the assets or securities of
the Company or to enter into a merger or consolidation
transaction with the Company and the right to cause the board of
directors of the Company to consider any such offer.

On July 1, 2004, the Company also entered into a new A-B
Distribution Agreement. The A-B Distribution Agreement provides
for the distribution of the Company s products in the
midwest and eastern United States (the  Eastern
Territory ), which represents those states not covered by
the supply, distribution and licensing agreement between the
Company and Craft Brands. The structure of the new A-B
Distribution Agreement is substantially similar to the
Company s prior arrangement with A-B. Under the A-B
Distribution Agreement, the Company has granted A-B the first
right to distribute Redhook products, including future new
products, in the Eastern Territory. The Company is responsible
for marketing its products to A-B s distributors in the
Eastern Territory, as well as to retailers and consumers. The
A-B distributors then place orders with the Company, through
A-B, for Redhook products. The Company separately packages and
ships the orders in refrigerated trucks to the A-B distribution
center nearest to the distributor or, under certain
circumstances, directly to the distributor.

The new A-B Distribution Agreement has a term that expires on
December 31, 2014, subject to automatic renewal for an
additional ten-year period unless A-B provides written notice of
non-renewal to the Company on or prior to June 30, 2014.
The A-B Distribution Agreement is also subject to early
termination, by either party, upon the occurrence of certain
events. The A-B Distribution Agreement may be terminated
immediately, by either party, upon the occurrence of any one or
more of the following events:

1)  
     
    a material default by the other party in the performance of any
    of the provisions of the A-B Distribution Agreement or any other
    agreement between the parties, which default is either: 

i)  
     
    curable within 30 days, but is not cured within
    30 days following written notice of default; or 

ii)  
     
    not curable within 30 days and either: 

(1)  
     
    the defaulting party fails to take reasonable steps to cure as
    soon as reasonably possible following written notice of such
    default; or 

(2)  
     
    such default is not cured within 90 days following written
    notice of such default; 

2)  
     
    default by the other party in the performance of any of the
    provisions of the A-B Distribution Agreement or any other
    agreement between the parties, which default is not described in
    (1) above and which is not cured within 180 days
    following written notice of such default; 

3)  
     
    the making by the other party of an assignment for the benefit
    of creditors; or the commencement by the other party of a
    voluntary case or proceeding or the other party s consent
    to or acquiescence in the entry of an order for relief against
    such other party in an involuntary case or proceeding under any
    bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency or similar law; 

4)  
     
    the appointment of a trustee or receiver or similar officer of
    any court for the other party or for a substantial part of the
    property of the other party, whether with or without the consent
    of the other party, which is not terminated within 60 days
    from the date of appointment thereof; 

5)  
     
    the institution of bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency or
    liquidation proceedings by or against the other party without
    such proceedings being dismissed within 90 days from the
    date of the institution thereof; 

6)  
     
    any representation or warranty made by the other party under or
    in the course of performance of the A-B Distribution Agreement
    that is false in material respects; or 

7)  
     
    the distribution agreement between Craft Brands and A-B is
    terminated or the distribution thereunder of the products of
    Redhook is terminated pursuant to its terms. 

9

Table of Contents   

Additionally, the A-B Distribution Agreement may be terminated
by A-B, upon six months  prior written notice to the
Company, in the event:

1)  
     
    the Company engages in certain Incompatible Conduct which is not
    curable or is not cured to
     A-B s  satisfaction
    (in A-B s sole opinion) within 30 days. Incompatible
    Conduct is defined as any act or omission of the Company that,
    in A-B s determination, damages the reputation or image of
    A-B or the brewing industry; 

2)  
     
    any A-B competitor or affiliate thereof acquires 10% or more of
    the outstanding equity securities of the Company, and one or
    more designees of such person becomes a member of the board of
    directors of the Company; 

3)  
     
    the current chief executive officer of the Company ceases to
    function as chief executive officer and within six months of
    such cessation a successor satisfactory in the sole, good faith
    discretion of A-B is not appointed; 

4)  
     
    the Company is merged or consolidated into or with any other
    person or any other person merges or consolidates into or with
    the Company; or 

5)  
     
    A-B or its corporate affiliates incur any liability or expense
    as a result of any claim asserted against them by or in the name
    of the Company or any shareholder of the Company as a result of
    the equity ownership of A-B or its affiliates in the Company, or
    any equity transaction or exchange between A-B or its affiliates
    and the Company, and the Company does not reimburse and
    indemnify A-B and its corporate affiliates on demand for the
    entire amount of such liability and expense. 

Fees   

Generally, the Company pays the following fees to A-B in
connection with the sale of the Company s products:

Margin.  In connection with all sales through the
Distribution Alliance prior to July 1, 2004, the Company
paid a Margin fee to A-B. The Margin did not apply to sales to
wholesalers and others that were part of the A-B distribution
network but that were not part of the Distribution Alliance,
including most sales to Washington state wholesalers, sales to
non-A-B wholesalers, sales by the Company s retail
operations and dock sales. The July 1, 2004 A-B
Distribution Agreement modified the Margin fee structure such
that the Margin per barrel shipped increased and is paid on all
sales through the new A-B Distribution Agreement. The Margin
does not apply to sales to the Company s retail operations
or to dock sales. The Margin also does not apply to the
Company s sales to Craft Brands because Craft Brands pays a
comparable fee on its resale of the product. The A-B
Distribution Agreement also provides that the Company shall pay
an additional fee on shipments that exceed shipments for the
same territory during fiscal 2003 (the  Additional
Margin ). In addition, the Exchange and Recapitalization
Agreement provided that the Margin be retroactively increased to
the rate provided in the A-B Distribution Agreement for all
shipments in June 2004.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Margin was paid
to A-B on shipments totaling 85,000 barrels to 472
distribution points. Because 2005 shipments in the midwest and
eastern United States exceeded 2003 shipments in the same
territory, the Company paid A-B the Additional Margin on
7,000 barrels. For the six month period ended
December 31, 2004, the Margin was paid to A-B on shipments
totaling 38,000 barrels to 371 distribution points, and the
retroactive increase on June 2004 shipments was paid on
approximately 20,000 barrels. For the six months ended
June 30, 2004, the Margin was paid to A-B on shipments
totaling 84,000 barrels to 495 Alliance distribution
points. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Margin
was paid to A-B on shipments totaling 166,000 barrels to
527 Alliance distribution points. The Margin paid is reflected
as a reduction of sales in the Company s statement of
operations.

Invoicing Cost.  Through June 30, 2004, the invoicing
cost was paid on sales through the Distribution Alliance where
the wholesaler placed the order through the A-B order management
system and payment to the Company was processed through A-B.
This cost did not apply to sales to wholesalers that were part
of the

10

Table of Contents   

A-B distribution network but that were not part of the
Distribution Alliance. The basis for this charge was the number
of pallet lifts.

Since July 1, 2004, the invoicing cost is payable on sales
through the new A-B Distribution Agreement. The fee does not
apply to sales by the Company s retail operations or to
dock sales. The fee also does not apply to the Company s
sales to Craft Brands because Craft Brands pays a comparable fee
to A-B.

According to the terms of the A-B Distribution Agreement, the
fee per pallet lift increased on January 1, 2005.

Staging Cost and Cooperage Handling Charge.  The Staging
Cost was paid on all sales through the Distribution Alliance and
is payable on all sales through the A-B Distribution Agreement
that are delivered to an A-B brewery or A-B distribution
facility. The fee does not apply to product shipped directly to
a wholesaler. The Cooperage Handling Charge was paid on all
draft beer sales through the Distribution Alliance and is
payable on all draft sales through the A-B Distribution
Agreement that are delivered to a wholesaler support center or
directly to a wholesaler. The basis for these fees is number of
pallet lifts. According to the terms of the A-B Distribution
Agreement, the staging cost and cooperage handling charge fees
increased on January 1, 2005.

Inventory Manager Fee.  The Inventory Manager Fee is paid
to reimburse A-B for a portion of the salary of a corporate
inventory management employee, a substantial portion of whose
responsibilities are to coordinate and administer logistics of
the Company s product distribution to wholesalers. This fee
decreased in the second half of 2004 because Craft Brands
assumed a portion of the fee.

The Invoicing Cost, Staging Cost, Cooperage Handling Charge and
Inventory Manager Fee are reflected in cost of sales in the
Company s statement of operations. These fees totaled
approximately $249,000 and $406,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Management believes that the benefits of the distribution
arrangement with A-B, particularly the potential for increased
sales volume and efficiencies in delivery, state reporting and
licensing, billing and collections, are significant to the
Company s business. The Company believes that the existence
of the A-B Distribution Agreement, presentations by
Redhook s management at A-B s distributor conventions,
A-B communications about Redhook in printed distributor
materials, and A-B-supported opportunities for Redhook to
educate A-B distributors about its specialty products have
resulted in increased awareness of and demand for Redhook
products among A-B s distributors.

If the A-B Distribution Agreement were terminated early, as
described above, it would be extremely difficult for the Company
to rebuild its distribution network without a severe negative
impact on the Company s sales and results of operations. It
is likely that the Company would need to raise additional funds
to develop a new distribution network. There cannot be any
guarantee that the Company would be able to successfully rebuild
all, or part, of its distribution network or that any additional
financing would be available when needed, or that any such
financing would be on commercially reasonable terms.

The termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement for any reason
would also constitute an event of default under the
Company s bank credit agreement. Upon default, the bank may
declare the entire outstanding term loan balance immediately due
and payable. The Company could seek to refinance its term loan
with one or more banks or obtain additional equity capital;
however, there can be no assurance the Company would be able to
access additional capital to meet its needs or that such
additional capital would be on commercially reasonable terms.

Relationship with Craft Brands Alliance LLC 

On July 1, 2004, the Company entered into agreements with
Widmer with respect to the operation of Craft Brands. Craft
Brands is a joint venture between the Company and Widmer that
purchases products from the Company and Widmer and markets,
advertises, sells and distributes these products in the Western
Territory pursuant to a distribution agreement with A-B (the
 Craft Brands Distribution Agreement ). The Western
Territory includes the following western states: Alaska,
Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho,

11

Table of Contents   

Montana, New Mexico, Nevada, Oregon, Washington and Wyoming. The
Company and Widmer are each a 50% member of Craft Brands and
each has the right to designate two directors to its six member
board. A-B is entitled to designate the remaining two directors.

The Company and Widmer have entered into a restated operating
agreement with Craft Brands (the  Operating
Agreement ) that governs the operations of Craft Brands and
the obligations of its members, including capital contributions,
loans and allocation of profits and losses.

The Operating Agreement requires the Company and Widmer to make
certain capital contributions to support the operations of Craft
Brands. Contemporaneous with the execution of the Operating
Agreement, the Company made a 2004 sales and marketing capital
contribution in the amount of $250,000. The Operating Agreement
designated this sales and marketing capital contribution to be
used by Craft Brands for expenses related to the marketing,
advertising, and promotion of the Company s products
( Special Marketing Expense ). The Operating Agreement
also requires an additional sales and marketing contribution in
2008 if the volume of sales of Redhook products in 2007 in the
Western Territory is less than 92% of the volume of sales of
Redhook products in 2003 in the Western Territory. The 2008
contribution, if one is required, cannot exceed $750,000 and
will be required to be paid by the Company in no more than three
equal installments made on or before February 1, 2008,
April 1, 2008, and July 1, 2008. Widmer has an
identical obligation under the Operating Agreement with respect
to a 2008 sales and marketing capital contribution and sales of
its product. The Operating Agreement also obligates the Company
and Widmer to make other additional capital contributions only
upon the request and consent of the Craft Brands  board of
directors.

The Operating Agreement also requires the Company and Widmer to
make loans to Craft Brands to assist Craft Brands in conducting
its operations and meeting its obligations. To the extent cash
flow from operations and borrowings from financial institutions
is not sufficient for Craft Brands to meet its obligations, the
Company and Widmer are obligated to lend to Craft Brands the
funds the president of Craft Brands deems necessary to meet such
obligations. Contemporaneous with the execution of the Operating
Agreement, the Company made a member loan of $150,000. Craft
Brands repaid this loan plus accrued interest in December 2004.

The Operating Agreement additionally addresses the allocation of
profits and losses of Craft Brands. After giving effect to the
allocation of the Special Marketing Expense, which is allocated
100% to the Company up to the 2004 $250,000 sales and marketing
capital contribution, and after giving effect to income
attributable to the shipments of the Kona brand, which is shared
differently between the Company and Widmer through 2006, the
remaining profits and losses of Craft Brands are allocated
between the Company and Widmer based on the cash flow
percentages of 42% and 58%, respectively. Net cash flow, if any,
will generally be distributed monthly to the Company and Widmer
based upon the cash flow percentages. No distribution will be
made to the Company or Widmer unless, after the distribution is
made, the assets of Craft Brands will be in excess of its
liabilities, with the exception of liabilities to members, and
Craft Brands will be able to pay its debts as they become due in
the ordinary course of business.

The Company also entered into a supply, distribution and
licensing agreement with Craft Brands (the  Supply and
Distribution Agreement ). Under the Supply and Distribution
Agreement, the Company manufactures and sells its product
directly to Craft Brands (except in states where laws require
sales to be made directly from Redhook to wholesalers) and Craft
Brands advertises, markets and distributes the products to
wholesale outlets in the Western Territory through the Craft
Brands Distribution Agreement. The Company has granted Craft
Brands a license to use Redhook intellectual property in
connection with these efforts to advertise, market, sell and
distribute the Company s products in the Western Territory.
The Supply and Distribution Agreement also gives the Company the
right to manufacture certain products of Widmer for sale to
Craft Brands if Widmer is unable to manufacture the quantity
ordered by Craft Brands. In addition, if sales of the
Company s products decrease as compared to previous year
sales, the Company will have an option to manufacture Widmer
products in an amount equal to the lower of (i) the
Company s product decrease or (ii) the Widmer product
increase.

The Supply and Distribution Agreement also provides that Craft
Brands may elect to discontinue distributing a Redhook product
if sales volume of such product declines to less than 20% of the
total volume of

12

Table of Contents   

all Redhook products and the volume of Redhook s product in
the prior year decreased by more than 10% as compared to the
year prior.

The territory covered by the Supply and Distribution Agreement
may be expanded to cover one or more of the following states, at
Craft Brands  request: Arkansas, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana,
Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South
Dakota and Texas.

Widmer has also entered into a supply, distribution and
licensing agreement with Craft Brands upon substantially similar
terms.

The Supply and Distribution Agreement has an indefinite term,
subject to early termination upon the occurrence of certain
events. The Supply and Distribution Agreement may be terminated
immediately, by either party, upon the occurrence of any one or
more of the following events:

1)  
     
    the other party fails to timely make any payment required under
    the Supply and Distribution Agreement for a period of
    60 days following written notice thereof; 

2)  
     
    the other party fails to perform any other material obligation
    under the Supply and Distribution Agreement and such failure
    remains uncured for a period of 60 days following written
    notice thereof; 

3)  
     
    the other party becomes the subject of insolvency or bankruptcy
    proceedings, ceases doing business, makes an assignment of
    assets for the benefit of creditors, dissolves, or has a trustee
    appointed for all or a substantial portion of such party s
    assets; 

4)  
     
    any government authority makes a final decision invalidating a
    substantial portion of the Supply and Distribution Agreement; 

5)  
     
    either party finds that complying with any law or regulation
    relating to fulfilling its obligations under the Supply and
    Distribution Agreement would be commercially unreasonable and
    failure to comply with the law or regulation would subject such
    party or any of its personnel to a monetary or criminal penalty; 

6)  
     
    the Craft Brands Distribution Agreement with A-B terminates for
    any reason; or 

7)  
     
    the Operating Agreement terminates for any reason. 

Additionally, Craft Brands may, upon notice to Redhook,
terminate the Supply and Distribution Agreement if Redhook
causes Craft Brands to be in default in its obligations under
the Craft Brands Distribution Agreement with A-B and Redhook
either (a) fails to take all actions necessary to cause
Craft Brands to cure such default or (b) fails to pay on
demand certain direct or indirect costs arising out of or
related to such default. Craft Brands may also terminate the
Supply and Distribution Agreement and cease advertising,
marketing, or distributing one or more of the Company s
products if an event of default occurs under the Craft Brands
Distribution Agreement that gives A-B the right to terminate
that agreement and Redhook caused such event of default.

If the Supply and Distribution Agreement were terminated early,
as described above, it would be extremely difficult for the
Company to rebuild its distribution network and re-launch its
marketing and advertising activities in the Western Territory
without a severe negative impact on the Company s sales and
results of operations. It is likely that the Company would need
to raise additional funds to develop a new distribution network.
There cannot be any guarantee that the Company would be able to
successfully rebuild all, or part, of its distribution network
or that any additional financing would be available when needed,
or that any such financing would be on commercially reasonable
terms. Additionally, termination of the Supply and Distribution
Agreement could cause a default under the Craft Brands
Distribution Agreement, which could in turn cause the Company to
be in default under the A-B Distribution Agreement.

The Company has assessed its investment in Craft Brands pursuant
to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
( FASB ) Interpretation No. 46 Revised,
 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities   an
Interpretation of ARB No. 51 ,
( FIN No. 46R ) and has concluded that its
investment in Craft Brands meets the definition of a variable
interest entity but that the Company is not the primary
beneficiary.

13

Table of Contents   

In accordance with FIN No. 46R, the Company has not
consolidated the financial statements of Craft Brands with the
financial statements of the Company, but instead accounted for
its investment in Craft Brands under the equity method, as
outlined by Accounting Principle Board ( APB ) Opinion
No. 18,  The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments
in Common Stock.  The Company recognized $2,392,000 and
$1,123,000 of undistributed earnings related to its investment
in Craft Brands for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. The Company received cash distributions of
$2,769,000 and $903,000, representing its share of the net cash
flow of Craft Brands for the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively. The Company s share of the earnings
of Craft Brands contributed a significant portion of income to
the Company s results of operations. Separate financial
statements for Craft Brands are filed with this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  in
Part IV., Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules , in accordance with Rule 3-09 of
Regulation  S-X. 

Sales and Marketing 

The Company promotes its products through a variety of
advertising programs with its wholesalers, by training and
educating wholesalers and retailers about the Company s
products, through promotions at local festivals, venues, and
pubs, by utilizing the pubs located at the Company s two
breweries, through price discounting, and, most recently,
through Craft Brands.

The Company advertises its products by utilizing radio,
billboard and print advertising in key markets and by
participating in a co-operative program with its distributors
whereby the Company s spending is matched dollar for dollar
by the distributor. Since 2000, the Company has allocated a
larger share of its advertising budget each year to these
co-operative programs. The Company believes that the financial
commitment as well as the distributor s knowledge of the
local market result in an advertising and promotion program that
is targeted in a manner that will best promote Redhook and align
the Company s interests with those of its wholesalers. In
2005, the Company reduced the co-op advertising, but continued
its promotion program and limited media advertising in select
eastern United States markets. Expenditures for the co-op
program and media advertising program totaled $533,000, $728,000
and $1.6 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The Company s sales and marketing staff offers education,
training and other support to wholesale distributors of the
Company s products. Because the Company s wholesalers
generally also distribute much higher volume national beer
brands and commonly distribute other specialty brands, a
critical function of the sales and marketing staff is to elevate
each distributor s awareness of the Company s products
and to maintain the distributor s interest in promoting
increased sales of these products. This is accomplished
primarily through personal contact with each distributor,
including  on-site  sales
training, educational tours of the Company s breweries, and
promotional activities and expenditures shared with the
distributors. The Company s sales representatives also
provide other forms of support to wholesale distributors, such
as direct contact with restaurant and grocery chain buyers,
direct involvement in the design of grocery store displays,
stacking and merchandising of beer inventory and supply of
 point-of -sale materials.

The Company s sales representatives devote considerable
effort to the promotion of on-premise consumption at
participating pubs and restaurants. The Company believes that
educating retailers about the freshness and quality of the
Company s products will in turn allow retailers to assist
in educating consumers. The Company considers on-premise product
sampling and education to be among its most effective tools for
building brand awareness with consumers and establishing
 word-of -mouth
reputation. On-premise marketing is also accomplished through a
variety of other
 point-of -sale tools,
such as neon signs, tap handles, coasters, table tents, banners,
posters, glassware and menu guidance. The Company seeks to
identify its products with local markets by participating in or
sponsoring cultural and community events, local music and other
entertainment venues, local craft beer festivals and cuisine
events, and local sporting events.

The Company s breweries also play a significant role in
increasing consumer awareness of the Company s products and
enhancing Redhook s image as a craft brewer. Many visitors
take tours at the Company s breweries. Both of the
Company s breweries have a retail pub
 on-site  where the
Company s products are served. In addition, the breweries
have meeting rooms that the public can rent for business
meetings, parties and holiday events, and that the Company uses
to entertain and educate distributors, retailers and the media

14

Table of Contents   

about the Company s products. See Item 2.
 Properties.  The Company also sells various items of
apparel and memorabilia bearing the Company s trademarks at
its pubs, which creates further awareness of the Company s
beers and reinforces the Company s quality image.

To further promote retail bottled product sales and in response
to local competitive conditions, the Company regularly offers
 post-offs,  or price discounts, to distributors in
most of its markets. Distributors and retailers usually
participate in the cost of these price discounts.

The Craft Brands joint sales and marketing organization serves
the operations of Redhook and Widmer in the Western Territory by
advertising, marketing, selling and distributing both
companies  products to wholesale outlets through a
distribution agreement between Craft Brands and A-B. Similar to
the Company, Craft Brands promotes its products through a
variety of advertising programs with its wholesalers, through
training and education of wholesalers and retailers, through
promotions at local festivals, venues, and pubs, by utilizing
the pubs located at the Company s two breweries, and
through price discounting. Management believes that, in addition
to achieving certain synergies by combining sales and marketing
forces, Craft Brands is able to capitalize on both
companies  sales and marketing skills and complementary
product portfolios. The Company believes that the combination of
the two brewers  complementary brand portfolios, led by one
focused sales and marketing organization, will not only deliver
financial benefits, but will also deliver greater impact at the
point of sale.

Seasonality 

Sales of the Company s products are somewhat seasonal, with
the first and fourth quarters historically being the slowest and
the rest of the year generating stronger sales. The volume of
sales may also be affected by weather conditions. Because of the
seasonality of the Company s business, results for any one
quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may
be achieved for the full fiscal year.

Competition 

The Company competes in the highly competitive craft brewing
market as well as in the much larger specialty beer market,
which encompasses producers of import beers, major national
brewers that have introduced fuller-flavored products, and large
spirit companies and national brewers that produce flavored
alcohol beverages. Beyond the beer market, craft brewers have
also faced competition from producers of wines and spirits. See
 Industry Background. 

Competition within the domestic craft beer segment and the
specialty beer market is based on product quality, taste,
consistency and freshness, ability to differentiate products,
promotional methods and product support, transportation costs,
distribution coverage, local appeal and price.

The craft beer segment is highly competitive due to the
proliferation of small craft brewers, including contract
brewers, and the large number of products offered by such
brewers. Craft brewers have also encountered more competition as
their peers expand distribution. Just as Redhook expanded
distribution of its products to markets outside of its home in
the Pacific Northwest, so have other craft brewers expanded
distribution of their products to other regions of the country,
leading to an increase in the number of craft brewers in any
given market. Competition varies by regional market. Depending
on the local market preferences and distribution, Redhook has
encountered strong competition from microbreweries, from other
regional specialty brewers such as Sierra Nevada Brewing
Company, Deschutes Brewery, Pyramid Breweries and New Belgium
Brewing Company, as well as from contract brewers such as Boston
Beer Company. Because of the large number of participants and
number of different products offered in this segment, the
competition for bottled product placements and especially for
draft beer placements has intensified. Although certain of these
competitors distribute their products nationally and may have
greater financial and other resources than the Company,
management believes that the Company possesses certain
competitive advantages, including its Company-owned production
facilities and its relationship with A-B and Craft Brands.

15

Table of Contents   

The Company also competes against producers of imported beers,
such as Heineken, Corona Extra, Bass and Guinness. Most of these
foreign brewers have significantly greater financial resources
than the Company. Although imported beers currently account for
a greater share of the U.S. beer market than craft beers,
the Company believes that craft brewers possess certain
competitive advantages over some importers, including lower
transportation costs, no importation costs, proximity to and
familiarity with local consumers, a higher degree of product
freshness, eligibility for lower federal excise taxes and
absence of currency fluctuations.

In response to the growth of the craft beer segment, most of the
major domestic brewers have introduced fuller-flavored beers.
While these product offerings are intended to compete with craft
beers, many of them are brewed according to methods used by the
major national brewers. Although increased participation by the
major national brewers increases competition for market share
and can heighten price sensitivity within the craft beer
segment, the Company believes that their participation tends to
increase advertising, distribution and consumer education and
awareness of craft beers, and thus may contribute to further
growth of this industry segment.

In the past few years, several major distilled spirits producers
and national brewers have introduced flavored alcohol beverages.
Products such as Smirnoff Ice, Bacardi Silver and Mike s
Hard Lemonade demonstrate continued growth. Sales of these
products were strong in 2005, increasing 4% compared to 2004
while the overall U.S. alcohol market increased less than 1%.
The producers of these products have significantly greater
financial resources than the Company and these products appear
to draw a portion of overlapping consumers away from imports and
craft beers. The success of the flavored alcohol beverages will
likely subject the Company to increased competition.

Competition for consumers of craft beers has also come from wine
and spirits. Some of the growth in the past five years in the
wine and spirits market, industry sources believe, has been
drawn from the beer market. This growth appears to be
attributable to competitive pricing, television advertising,
increased merchandising, and increased consumer interest in wine
and spirits.

A significant portion of the Company s sales continue to be
in the Pacific Northwest region, which the Company believes is
one of the most competitive craft beer markets in the United
States, both in terms of number of participants and consumer
awareness. The Company faces extreme competitive pressure in
Washington state, which is not only the Company s largest
market, but is also its oldest market. Since 2000, the Company
has experienced a decline in sales volume in Washington state of
approximately 20%, significantly impacted by a 12% decline in
2004 volume over 2003 volume. The Company believes that the
Pacific Northwest, and Washington state in particular, offers
significant competition to its products, not only from other
craft brewers but also from the growing wine market and from
flavored alcohol beverages. This intense competition is
magnified because the Company s brand is viewed as being
relatively mature. Focus studies in late 2004 indicated that,
while the Company s brand does possess brand awareness
among target consumers, it also appeared to not attract key
consumers who seem to be more interested in experimenting with
new products. These focus studies resulted in Craft Brands
focusing its 2005 marketing efforts on updating the Redhook
brand image to stimulate demand. In the first half of 2005,
Craft Brands introduced in the western United States several
major marketing initiatives, including a proprietary Redhook
bottle and new packaging design combined with a new marketing
campaign, aimed at updating the Redhook brand image. In the
second half of 2005, the new packaging design was introduced in
the midwest and eastern United States.

Shipments to Washington state in late 2003 and all of 2004 and
2005 appear to have been significantly impacted by the formation
of Craft Brands. Management believes that the beer industry is
influenced, both positively and negatively, by individual
relationships. In Washington state, where some of those
relationships have existed for many years, the transition to
Craft Brands appears to have had some negative impact on those
relationships. The transition took longer than anticipated, and
in 2004 nearly all Company sales staff responsible for the
Washington state market left the Company. While the Company
believes that the Craft Brands sales staff is re-establishing
those relationships and that sales of the Company s
products will stabilize, the process is expected to take some
time. The impact that Craft Brands will have on future sales in
Washington state and the rest of its Western Territory is yet to
be determined and may not be quantifiable for some time.

16

Table of Contents   

Regulation 

The Company s business is highly regulated at federal,
state and local levels. Various permits, licenses and approvals
necessary to the Company s brewery and pub operations and
the sale of alcoholic beverages are required from various
agencies, including the United States Treasury Department,
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (the  TTB )
(formerly the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms), the
United States Department of Agriculture, the United States Food
and Drug Administration, state alcohol regulatory agencies in
the states in which the Company sells its products, and state
and local health, sanitation, safety, fire and environmental
agencies. In addition, the beer industry is subject to
substantial federal and state excise taxes, although the Company
benefits from favorable treatment granted to brewers producing
less than two million barrels per year.

Management believes that the Company currently has all licenses,
permits and approvals necessary for its current operations.
However, existing permits or licenses could be revoked if the
Company failed to comply with the terms of such permits or
licenses. Additional permits or licenses could be required in
the future for the Company s existing or expanded
operations. If licenses, permits or approvals necessary for the
Company s brewery or pub operations were unavailable or
unduly delayed, or if any such permits or licenses were revoked,
the Company s ability to conduct its business could be
substantially and adversely affected.

Alcoholic Beverage Regulation and Taxation   

Both of the Company s breweries and pubs are subject to
licensing and regulation by a number of governmental
authorities. The Company operates its breweries under federal
licensing requirements imposed by the TTB. The TTB requires the
filing of a  Brewer s Notice  upon the
establishment of a commercial brewery. In addition, commercial
brewers are required to file an amended Brewer s Notice
every time there is a material change in the brewing process or
brewing equipment, change in the brewery s location, change
in the brewery s management or a material change in the
brewery s ownership. The Company s operations are
subject to audit and inspection by the TTB at any time.

In addition to the regulations imposed by the TTB, the
Company s breweries are subject to various regulations
concerning retail sales, pub operations, deliveries and selling
practices in states in which the Company sells its products.
Failure of the Company to comply with applicable federal or
state regulations could result in limitations on the
Company s ability to conduct its business. TTB permits can
be revoked for failure to pay taxes, to keep proper accounts, to
pay fees, to bond premises, to abide by federal alcoholic
beverage production and distribution regulations, or if holders
of 10% or more of the Company s equity securities are found
to be of questionable character. Permits from state regulatory
agencies can be revoked for many of the same reasons.

The U.S. federal government currently imposes an excise tax
of $18 per barrel on beer sold for consumption in the
United States. However, any brewer with annual production under
two million barrels instead pays federal excise tax in the
amount of $7 per barrel on sales of the first
60,000 barrels. While the Company is not aware of any plans
by the federal government to reduce or eliminate this benefit to
small brewers, any such reduction in a material amount could
have an adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the Company
would lose the benefit of this rate structure if it exceeded the
two million barrel production threshold. Individual states
also impose excise taxes on alcoholic beverages in varying
amounts, which have also been subject to change. It is possible
that excise taxes will be increased in the future by both the
federal government and several states. In addition, increased
excise taxes on alcoholic beverages have in the past been
considered in connection with various governmental
budget-balancing or funding proposals. Any such increases in
excise taxes, if enacted, could adversely affect the Company.

State and Federal Environmental Regulation   

The Company s brewery operations are subject to
environmental regulations and local permitting requirements and
agreements regarding, among other things, air emissions, water
discharges and the handling and disposal of wastes. While the
Company has no reason to believe the operations of its
facilities violate any

17

Table of Contents   

such regulation or requirement, if such a violation were to
occur, or if environmental regulations were to become more
stringent in the future, the Company could be adversely affected.

Dram Shop Laws   

The serving of alcoholic beverages to a person known to be
intoxicated may, under certain circumstances, result in the
server being held liable to third parties for injuries caused by
the intoxicated customer. The Company s pubs have addressed
this concern by establishing early closing hours and regularly
scheduled employee training. Large uninsured damage awards
against the Company could adversely affect the Company s
financial condition.

Trademarks 

The Company has obtained U.S. trademark registrations for
its numerous products including its proprietary bottle design.
Trademark registrations generally include specific product
names, marks and label designs. The Redhook mark and certain
other Company marks are also registered in various foreign
countries. The Company regards its Redhook and other trademarks
as having substantial value and as being an important factor in
the marketing of its products. The Company is not aware of any
infringing uses that could materially affect its current
business or any prior claim to the trademarks that would prevent
the Company from using such trademarks in its business. The
Company s policy is to pursue registration of its marks in
its markets whenever possible and to oppose vigorously any
infringement of its marks.

Employees 

At December 31, 2005, the Company had 196 employees,
including 60 in production, 93 in the pubs, 26 in sales and
marketing, and 17 in administration. Of these, 64 in the pubs, 2
in administration and 2 in production were part-time employees.
The Company believes its relations with its employees to be good.

18

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.  
     
      Risk Factors   

The risks described below, together with all of the other
information included in this report, should be carefully
considered in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks
and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing
us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or
deemed insignificant may also impair our business operations.
Solely for purposes of the risk factors in this Item 1A.,
the terms  we ,  our  and  us 
refer to Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated and its subsidiaries.

We are dependent upon our continuing relationship with
Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated.  All of our future sales are
expected to be made through the A-B Distribution Agreement and
through sales to Craft Brands. Craft Brands will distribute
Redhook products through a separate distribution arrangement
with A-B. If our relationship with A-B, our relationship with
Craft Brands or the relationship between A-B and Craft Brands
were to deteriorate, distribution of our products would suffer
significant disruption and such event would have a long-term
severe negative impact on our sales and results of operations,
as it would be extremely difficult for us to rebuild our own
distribution network. We believe that the benefits of the
Distribution Agreement and our relationship with A-B and Craft
Brands, in particular distribution and material cost
efficiencies, offset the costs associated with the relationship.
However, there can be no assurance that these costs will not
have a negative impact on our profit margins in the future.

Additionally, the termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement
for any reason would constitute an event of default under our
bank credit agreement, and the bank may declare the entire
outstanding loan balance immediately due and payable. If this
were to occur, we could seek to refinance our term loan with one
or more banks or obtain additional equity capital; however,
there can be no assurance we would be able to access additional
capital to meet our needs or that such additional capital would
be available at commercially reasonable terms.

Our agreement with A-B contains limitations on our ability to
engage in or reject certain transactions, including acquisitions
and changes of control.  The Exchange and Recapitalization
Agreement with A-B contains limitations on, among other matters,
our ability to, without the prior consent of A-B:

issue equity securities; 

acquire or sell assets or stock; 

amend our Articles of Incorporation or bylaws; 

grant board representation rights; 

enter into certain transactions with affiliates; 

distribute our products in the United States other than through
    A-B, Craft Brands or as provided in the A-B Distribution
    Agreement; 

voluntarily delist or terminate our listing on the Nasdaq Stock
    Market; or 

dispose of any of our interest in Craft Brands. 

Further, if the A-B Distribution Agreement is terminated, or the
distribution of Redhook products is terminated by Craft Brands,
A-B has the right to solicit and negotiate offers from third
parties to purchase all or substantially all of the assets or
securities of the Company or to enter into a merger or
consolidation transaction with the Company and the right to
cause our board of directors to consider any such offer.

Additionally, as of December 31, 2005, A-B owned
approximately 33.6% of our Common Stock. As long as A-B owns a
substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, it may have
the ability to approve or block actions requiring the approval
of our shareholders.

Our investment in Craft Brands Alliance LLC may not provide
anticipated benefits.  We believe that Craft Brands 
combined sales and marketing organization creates synergies and
capitalizes on both Redhook s and Widmer s sales and
marketing experience and complementary product portfolios. We
have realized a decrease in selling, general and administrative
expenses and recognized income of $2.4 million in 2005 and

19

Table of Contents   

$1.1 million in 2004 from our investment in Craft Brands;
however, Craft Brands has only been operational since July 2004
and predicting future benefits from Crafts Brands is difficult.
There can be no assurance that we will see any further or
anticipated benefits from the joint venture.

The Craft Brands Operating Agreement requires us to make an
additional sales and marketing contribution to Craft Brands in
2008 if the volume of sales of our products in 2007 in the
Western Territory is less than 92% of the volume of sales of our
products in 2003 in the Western Territory. If necessary, this
additional sales and marketing contribution may total $750,000
and will be required to be paid in no more than three equal
installments made on or before February 1, 2008,
April 1, 2008, and July 1, 2008. If we are required to
make this additional sales and marketing contribution, our
available cash will decrease and our income from Craft Brands
will decrease by the amount of the Special Marketing Expense,
which will be allocated 100% to us.

We are dependent on our distributors for the sale of our
products.  Although all of our future sales are expected to
be made through the A-B Distribution Agreement and through sales
to Craft Brands, we continue to rely heavily on distributors,
most of which are independent wholesalers, for the sale of our
products to retailers. K&L is responsible for distribution
of our products in one of our largest markets  
Seattle, Washington. K&L accounted for approximately 12%,
13% and 13% of total sales volume in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. A disruption of Craft Brands , the
wholesalers , A-B s or our ability to distribute
products efficiently due to any significant operational
problems, such as wide-spread labor union strikes, the loss of
K&L as a customer, or the termination of the A-B
Distribution Agreement or the Craft Brands Supply and
Distribution Agreement could hinder our ability to get our
products to retailers and could have a material adverse impact
on our sales and results of operations.

Changes in state laws regarding distribution arrangements may
adversely impact our operations.  In 2006, the Washington
state legislature passed a bill that will remove the
long-standing requirement that small producers of wine and beer
distribute their products through wholesale distributors, thus
permitting these small producers to distribute their products
directly to retailers. The law further provides that any
in-state or
 out-of -state brewery
that produces more than 2,500 barrels annually may
distribute its products directly to retailers if it does so from
a facility located in the state that is physically separate and
distinct from its production facilities. The new legislation
stipulates that prices charged by a brewery must be uniform to
all distributors and retailers, but does not restrict prices
retailers may charge consumers. While it is too soon to predict
what impact, if any, this law will have on our operations, the
beer and wine market may experience an increase in competition
and cause our future sales and results of operations to be
adversely affected. This law may also impact the financial
stability of Washington state wholesalers on which we rely.

Increased competition could adversely affect sales and
results of operations.  We compete in the highly competitive
craft brewing market as well as in the much larger specialty
beer market, which encompasses producers of import beers, major
national brewers that produce fuller-flavored products, and
large spirit companies and national brewers that produce
flavored alcohol beverages. Beyond the beer market, craft
brewers also face competition from producers of wines and
spirits. Primarily as a result of this increased competition, we
experienced declining sales volumes ranging from 2.3% to 5.7%
for the years 1997 through 1999. Our sales volume for the years
1999 to 2003 increased when compared to the corresponding prior
year s volumes, but decreased again in 2004. Although our
2005 sales volume increased compared to 2004, the increase was a
modest 4.1%, while industry sources estimate that the craft
brewing segment in total increased approximately 9%. Increasing
competition could cause our future sales and results of
operations to be adversely affected. We have historically
operated with little or no backlog and, therefore, our ability
to predict sales for future periods is limited.

Future price promotions to generate demand for our products
may be unsuccessful.  Future prices we charge for our
products may decrease from historical levels, depending on
competitive factors in our various markets. In order to
stimulate demand for our products, we have participated in price
promotions with our wholesalers and retail customers in most of
our markets. The number of markets in which we participate in
price promotions and the frequency of such promotions may
increase in the future. There can be no assurance however that
our price promotions will be successful in increasing demand for
our products.

20

Table of Contents   

Due to our concentration of sales in the Pacific Northwest,
our results of operations and financial condition are subject to
fluctuations in regional economic conditions.  A significant
portion of our sales continue to be in the Pacific Northwest
region. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in
economic and business conditions nationally and particularly
within the Northwest region. Additionally, we believe this
region is one of the most competitive craft beer markets in the
United States, both in terms of number of market participants
and consumer awareness. We face extreme competitive pressure in
Washington state which is our largest and oldest market. Since
2000, we have experienced a decline in sales volume in
Washington state of approximately 20%, significantly impacted by
a 12% decline in 2004 volume over 2003 volume. We believe that
the Pacific Northwest, and Washington state in particular,
offers significant competition to our products, not only from
other craft brewers but also from the growing wine market and
from flavored alcohol beverages. This intense competition is
magnified because our brand is viewed as being relatively
mature. Focus studies in late 2004 indicated that, while our
brand possesses brand awareness among target consumers, it also
appears to not attract key consumers who seem to be more
interested in experimenting with new products. These focus
studies have resulted in Craft Brands focusing its 2005
marketing efforts on updating the Redhook brand image to
stimulate demand. In addition, Washington state shipments in
late 2003, all of 2004 and 2005 appear to have been
significantly impacted by the formation of Craft Brands. Our
management believes that the beer industry is influenced, both
positively and negatively, by individual relationships. In
Washington state, where some of those relationships have existed
for many years, the transition to Craft Brands appears to have
had some negative impact on those relationships. The transition
took longer than anticipated and in 2004, nearly all our sales
staff responsible for the Washington state market left the
Company. While we believe the Craft Brands sales staff is
re-establishing those relationships and that sales of our
products will stabilize, the process is expected to take some
time. However, there can be no assurance that we will see any
anticipated benefits from these efforts.

Our business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to
experience fluctuations in our results of operations and
financial condition.  Sales of our products are somewhat
seasonal, with the first and fourth quarters historically being
the slowest and the rest of the year generating stronger sales.
Our sales volume may also be affected by weather conditions.
Therefore, our results for any quarter may not be indicative of
the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. If an
adverse event such as a regional economic downturn or poor
weather conditions should occur during the second and third
quarters, the adverse impact to our revenues could likely be
greater as a result of our seasonal business.

Our gross margins may fluctuate while our expenses remain
constant.  We anticipate that our future gross margins will
fluctuate and may decline as a result of many factors, including
shipments to Craft Brands at a fixed price substantially below
wholesale pricing levels, disproportionate depreciation and
other fixed and semivariable operating costs, and the level of
production at our breweries in relation to current production
capacity. Our high level of fixed and semivariable operating
costs causes gross margin to be especially sensitive to
relatively small increases or decreases in sales volume. In
addition, other factors beyond our control that could affect
cost of sales include changes in freight charges, the
availability and prices of raw materials and packaging
materials, the mix between draft and bottled product sales, the
sales mix of various bottled product packages, and federal or
state excise taxes.

Changes in consumer preferences or public attitudes about our
products could reduce demand.  If consumers were unwilling to
accept our products or if general consumer trends caused a
decrease in the demand for beer, including craft beer, it would
adversely impact our sales and results of operations. If the
flavored alcohol beverage market, the wine market, or the
spirits market continue to grow, they could draw consumers away
from our products and have an adverse effect on our sales and
results of operations. Further, the alcoholic beverage industry
has become the subject of considerable societal and political
attention in recent years due to increasing public concern over
alcohol-related social problems, including drunk driving,
underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of
alcohol. If beer consumption in general were to come into
disfavor among domestic consumers, or if the domestic beer
industry were subjected to significant additional governmental
regulation, our operations could be adversely affected.

We are subject to governmental regulations affecting our
breweries and pubs; the costs of complying with governmental
regulations, or our failure to comply with such regulations,
could affect our financial condition 

21

Table of Contents   

and results of operations.  Our breweries and our pubs are
subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental
authorities, including the United States Treasury Department,
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, the United States
Department of Agriculture, the United States Food and Drug
Administration, state alcohol regulatory agencies in the states
in which we sell our products, and state and local health,
sanitation, safety, fire and environmental agencies. Our failure
to comply with applicable federal, state or local regulations
could result in limitations on our ability to conduct business.
TTB permits can be revoked for failure to pay taxes, to keep
proper accounts, to pay fees, to bond premises, to abide by
federal alcoholic beverage production and distribution
regulations, or if holders of 10% or more of our equity
securities are found to be of questionable character. Other
permits or licenses could be revoked if we fail to comply with
the terms of such permits or licenses, and additional permits or
licenses could be required in the future for our existing or
expanded operations. If licenses, permits or approvals necessary
for our brewery or pub operations were unavailable or unduly
delayed, or if any such permits or licenses were revoked, our
ability to conduct business could be substantially and adversely
affected.

Our brewery operations are also subject to environmental
regulations and local permitting requirements and agreements
regarding, among other things, air emissions, water discharges,
and the handling and disposal of wastes. While we have no reason
to believe the operations of our facilities violate any such
regulation or requirement, if such a violation were to occur, or
if environmental regulations were to become more stringent in
the future, our business could be adversely affected.

We are also subject to  dram shop  laws, which
generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the
right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully
served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Our pubs
have addressed this concern by establishing early closing hours
and regularly scheduled employee training, however, large
uninsured damage awards against the Company could adversely
affect our financial condition.

We may experience material losses in excess of insurance
coverage.  We believe we maintain insurance coverage that is
customary for businesses of our size and type. There are,
however, certain types of catastrophic losses that are not
generally insured because it is not economically feasible to
insure against such losses. Should an uninsured loss or a loss
in excess of insured limits occur, such loss could have an
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition.

Declining sales trends could adversely effect brewery
efficiency and our financial results.  Our breweries have
been operating at production levels substantially below their
current and maximum designed capacities. Operating our breweries
at low capacity utilization rates negatively impacts our gross
margins and operating cash flows generated by the production
facilities. We periodically evaluate whether we expect to
recover the costs of our production facilities over the course
of their useful lives. If facts and circumstances indicate that
the carrying value of these long-lived assets may be impaired,
an evaluation of recoverability will be performed in accordance
with FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
( SFAS ) No. 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets , by comparing
the carrying value of the assets to projected future
undiscounted cash flows in addition to other quantitative and
qualitative analyses. If our management believes that the
carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable, we will
recognize an impairment loss by a charge against current
operations.

An increase in excise taxes could adversely affect our
financial condition.  The U.S. federal government
currently imposes an excise tax of $18 per barrel on beer
sold for consumption in the United States. However, any brewer
with annual production under two million barrels instead pays
federal excise tax in the amount of $7 per barrel on sales
of the first 60,000 barrels. While we are not aware of any
plans by the federal government to reduce or eliminate this
benefit to small brewers, any such reduction in a material
amount could have an adverse effect on our financial condition
and results of operations. In addition, we would lose the
benefit of this rate structure if we exceeded the two million
barrel production threshold. Individual states also impose
excise taxes on alcoholic beverages in varying amounts, which
have also been subject to change. It is possible that excise
taxes will be increased in the future by both federal and state
governments. In addition, increased excise taxes on alcoholic
beverages have in the past been considered in connection with
various

22

Table of Contents   

governmental budget-balancing or funding proposals. Any such
increases in excise taxes, if enacted, could adversely affect
our financial condition.

Loss of income tax benefits could negatively impact results
of operations.  As of December 31, 2005, we had federal
net operating tax loss carryforwards ( NOLs ) of
$30.2 million, or $10.3 million tax-effected; federal
alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $135,000; and
state NOL carryforwards of $500,000 tax-effected. The federal
NOLs expire from 2012 through 2024; the alternative minimum tax
credit can be utilized to offset regular tax liabilities in
future years and has no expiration date; and the state NOLs
expire from 2006 through 2019. Federal NOLs, generally permitted
to be carried forward no more than 20 years, and state
NOLs, generally permitted to be carried forward 5 to
15 years, can be used to offset regular tax liabilities in
future years. Based upon the available evidence, we believe it
is more likely than not that all of our deferred tax assets will
not be realized. Accordingly, we established a valuation
allowance in 2002 and increased it further in 2003, 2004 and
2005 to cover certain federal and state NOLs that may expire
before we are able to utilize the tax benefit. As of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, the valuation allowance totaled
$1,656,000 and $1,154,000, respectively. To the extent that we
are unable to generate adequate taxable income in future
periods, we will not be able to recognize additional tax
benefits and may be required to record a greater valuation
allowance covering potentially expiring NOLs.

We are dependent upon the services of our key personnel. 
We depend on the services of our key management personnel,
including Paul Shipman, our chief executive officer, and David
Mickelson, our president and chief financial officer. If we lose
the services of any members of our senior management or key
personnel for any reason, we may be unable to replace them with
qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect
on our operations. We do not carry key person life insurance on
any of our executive officers.

We are subject to the risks of litigation.  At any given
time, we are subject to claims and actions incidental to the
operation of our business. The outcome of these proceedings
cannot be predicted. If a plaintiff were successful in a claim
against our company, we could be faced with the payment of a
material sum of money. If this were to occur, it could have an
adverse effect on our financial condition.

Item 1B.  
     
      Unresolved Staff Comments   

None.

23

Table of Contents   

Item 2.  
     
      Properties   

The Company currently operates two highly automated small-batch
breweries, one in the Seattle suburb of Woodinville, Washington
and the other in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. See Notes 5 and
11 to the Financial Statements included elsewhere herein.

The Washington Brewery.  The Washington Brewery, located
on approximately 22 acres (17 of which are developable) in
Woodinville, Washington, a suburb of Seattle, is across the
street from the Chateau Ste. Michelle Winery, next to the
Columbia Winery and visible from a popular bicycle path. The
Washington Brewery is comprised of an approximately
88,000 square-foot building, a 40,000 square-foot
building and an outdoor tank farm. The two buildings house a
 100-barrel  brewhouse,
fermentation cellars, filter rooms, grain storage silos, a
bottling line, a keg filling line, dry storage, two coolers and
loading docks. The brewery includes a retail merchandise outlet
and the Forecasters Public House, a 4,000 square-foot
family-oriented pub that seats 200 and features an outdoor beer
garden that seats an additional 200. Additional entertainment
facilities include a 4,000 square-foot special events room
accommodating up to 250 people. The brewery also houses office
space, a portion of which is occupied by the Company s
corporate office and the remainder of which is leased through
October 2009. The brewery s current production capacity is
approximately 250,000 barrels per year under ideal brewing
conditions. The Company purchased the land in 1993 and believes
that its value has appreciated.

The New Hampshire Brewery.  The New Hampshire Brewery is
located on approximately 23 acres in Portsmouth, New
Hampshire. The land is subleased, the term of which expires in
2047, and contains two seven-year extension options. The New
Hampshire Brewery is modeled after the Washington Brewery and is
similarly equipped, but is larger in design, covering
125,000 square feet to accommodate all phases of the
Company s brewing operations under one roof. Also included
is a retail merchandise outlet, the Cataqua Public House, a
4,000 square-foot family-oriented pub with an outdoor beer
garden, and a special events room accommodating up to 250
people. Production began in late October 1996, with an initial
brewing capacity of approximately 100,000 barrels per year.
In order to accommodate anticipated sales growth, additional
brewing capacity was installed in 2002 and 2003, bringing the
current production capacity to approximately
125,000 barrels per year. Driven by further growth in the
midwest and eastern markets, the Company plans to again increase
its fermentation capacity in 2006, estimating that the expansion
will add another 20,000 barrels of capacity by July 2006.
The Company has the ability to phase in additional brewing
capacity as needed, up to the maximum designed production
capacity of approximately 250,000 barrels per year under
ideal brewing conditions.

Item 3.  
     
      Legal Proceedings   

The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings
and litigation arising in the normal course of business. The
Company believes that, to the extent that it exists, any pending
or threatened litigation involving the Company or its properties
will not likely have a material adverse effect on the
Company s financial condition or results of operations.

Item 4.  
     
      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

None.

24

Table of Contents   

Item 4A.  
     
      Executive Officers of the Company   

Paul S. Shipman (53)   Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman of the Board 

Mr. Shipman is one of the Company s founders and has
served as the Company s Chairman of the Board since
November 1992 and Chief Executive Officer since June 1993. From
September 1981 to November 2005, Mr. Shipman served as the
Company s President. Prior to founding the Company,
Mr. Shipman was a marketing analyst for the Chateau Ste.
Michelle Winery from 1978 to 1981. Mr. Shipman received his
Bachelor s degree in English from Bucknell University in
1975 and his Master s degree in Business Administration
from the Darden Business School, University of Virginia, in
1978. Since July 2004, Mr. Shipman has served as a director
of Craft Brands.

David J. Mickelson (46)   President and Chief
Financial Officer 

Mr. Mickelson was named President and Chief Financial
Officer in December 2005. From August 2000 through November
2005, Mr. Mickelson served as Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer, and from March 1995 to November 2005,
Mr. Mickelson also served as the Company s Chief
Operating Officer. From April 1994 to March 1995, he was the
Company s Vice President and General Manager. From July
1992 to December 1994, he served as its Chief Financial Officer,
and was also named General Manager in January 1994. He served as
the Company s Controller from 1987 to July 1992, and
additionally was elected Treasurer in 1989. From 1985 to 1987,
he was the Controller for Certified Foods, Inc. and from 1981 to
1985, he served as a loan officer with Barclays Bank PLC.
Mr. Mickelson received his Bachelor s degree in
Business Administration from the University of Washington in
1981.

Gerard C. Prial (51)   Vice President, Sales and
Eastern Operations 

Mr. Prial has served as the Company s Vice President,
Sales and Eastern Operations since December 2005. Mr. Prial
served as Vice President, East Coast Operations from November
2001 through November 2005. From 1996 to November 2001,
Mr. Prial served as the General Manager of the
Company s New Hampshire Brewery. He served as the
Company s Southern California Field Sales Manager from
August 1994 to March 1996. From April 1993 to April 1994,
Mr. Prial served as Vice President of Sales for Brewski
Brewing Company of Culver City, California. From 1979 to 1993,
he served in various positions for Wisdom Import Sales Company
in Irvine, California. From 1977 to 1979, Mr. Prial worked
for the Miller Brewing Company as an Area Manager in the Pacific
Northwest. He received his Bachelor s degree in Management
and Economics from Marietta College in Marietta, Ohio in 1977.

Allen L. Triplett (47)   Vice President, Brewing 

Mr. Triplett has served as Vice President, Brewing since
March 1995. From 1987 to March 1995, he was the Company s
Production Manager. He has worked in virtually every facet of
production since joining the Company in 1985. Mr. Triplett has
taken coursework at the Siebel Institute of Brewing and the
University of California at Davis. He is a member of the Master
Brewers Association of America and is currently serving as its
Vice President in the Northwest district and formerly as its
Secretary and Treasurer. He is also a member of the American
Society of Brewing Chemists and a current and founding board
member of National Ambassadors at the University of Wyoming. He
received his Bachelor s degree in Petroleum Engineering
from the University of Wyoming in 1985.

There is no family relationship between any directors or
executive officers of the Company.

25

Table of Contents   

PART II. 

Item 5.  
     
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities   

The Company s Common Stock trades on the Nasdaq Stock
Market under the trading symbol HOOK. The table below sets
forth, for the fiscal quarters indicated, the reported high and
low sale prices of the Company s Common Stock, as reported
on the Nasdaq Stock Market:

As of March 17, 2006, there were 713 Common Stockholders of
record, although the Company believes that the number of
beneficial owners of its Common Stock is substantially greater.

The Company has not paid any dividends since 1994. The Company
anticipates that for the foreseeable future, all earnings, if
any, will be retained for the operation and expansion of its
business and that it will not pay cash dividends. The payment of
dividends, if any, in the future will be at the discretion of
the board of directors and will depend upon, among other things,
future earnings, capital requirements, restrictions in future
financing agreements, the general financial condition of the
Company and general business conditions.

26

Table of Contents   

Item 6.  
     
      Selected Financial Data   

The following selected financial data should be read in
conjunction with the Company s Financial Statements and the
Notes thereto and  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  included
elsewhere in this
Form  10-K.  The
selected statement of operations and balance sheet data for, and
as of the end of, each of the five years in the period ended
December 31, 2005, are derived from the financial
statements of the Company. The operating data are derived from
unaudited information maintained by the Company.

Restatement 

As discussed in Note 2 to the Financial Statements, the
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004
and related Notes thereto contained in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 have been restated. All
amounts in Selected Financial Data have been adjusted, as
appropriate, for the effects of the restatement.

27

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    Based on the Company s estimate of current production
    capacity of equipment, assuming ideal brewing conditions,
    installed as of the end of such period. Amounts do not reflect
    maximum designed production capacity. See  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.  

(2)  
     
    Includes Term Loan and capital lease obligations. See
    Note 7 to the Financial Statements included elsewhere
    herein. 

28

Table of Contents   

Item 7.  
     
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   

The following discussion and analysis should be read in
conjunction with the Company s Financial Statements and
Notes thereto included herein. The discussion and analysis
includes
 period-to -period
comparisons of the Company s financial results. Although
 period-to -period
comparisons may be helpful in understanding the Company s
financial results, the Company believes that they should not be
relied upon as an accurate indicator of future performance.

Restatement 

As discussed in Note 2 to the Financial Statements, the
Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2004
and the related notes thereto contained in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2005 have been restated in order to
correct an error. The Company inadvertently overstated its NOLs
with the state of New Hampshire by recording NOLs in excess of
limits prescribed by law, leading to an understatement of the
Company s income tax provision and an overstatement of the
Company s deferred tax asset, which is netted against the
Company s deferred income tax liability on the
Company s balance sheet. The effect of the adjustment on
the statement of operations for the year ended December 31,
2004 is to increase the income tax provision and the net loss by
$301,000. All amounts in  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 
have been adjusted, as appropriate, for the effects of the
restatement.

A more complete discussion of the restatement can be found in
Note 2 to the Financial Statements contained in this Annual
Report on
Form  10-K  and
Item 4.02(a) of the Company s Current Report on
Form  8-K  filed
with the Commission on March 23, 2006.

Overview 

Since its formation, the Company has focused its business
activities on the brewing, marketing and selling of craft beers
in the United States. The Company produces its specialty bottled
and draft products in two Company-owned breweries, one in the
Seattle suburb of Woodinville, Washington and the other in
Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Prior to July 1, 2004, the
Company s sales consisted predominantly of sales of beer to
third-party distributors and A-B through the Company s
Distribution Alliance with A-B. Since July 1, 2004, the
Company s sales have consisted of sales of product to Craft
Brands and A-B. The Company and Widmer manufacture and sell
their product to Craft Brands at a price substantially below
wholesale pricing levels; Craft Brands, in turn, advertises,
markets, sells and distributes the product to wholesale outlets
in the western United States through a distribution agreement
between Craft Brands and A-B. (Due to state liquor regulations,
the Company sells its product in Washington state directly to
third-party beer distributors and returns a portion of the
revenue to Craft Brands based upon a contractually determined
formula). Profits and losses of Craft Brands are generally
shared between the Company and Widmer based on the cash flow
percentages of 42% and 58%, respectively. The Company continues
to sell its product in the midwest and eastern United States
through sales to A-B pursuant to the July 1, 2004 A-B
Distribution Agreement. For additional information regarding
Craft Brands and the A-B Distribution Agreement, see
Item 1., Product Distribution   Relationship with
Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated and   Relationship with
Craft Brands Alliance LLC. See also  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Results of Operations  
 Craft Brands Alliance LLC    below. In addition
to sales of beer, the Company derives other revenues from
sources including the sale of retail beer, food, apparel and
other retail items in its two brewery pubs.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company had gross
sales and a net loss of $34,520,000 and $1,200,000,
respectively, compared to gross sales and a net loss of
$36,640,000 and $1,254,000, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2004. However, comparability of the
Company s 2005 operating results to the 2004 operating
results is significantly impacted by the July 1, 2004
formation of Craft Brands and the July 1, 2004 A-B
Distribution Agreement. While all sales in the western United
States in 2005 were made to Craft Brands at discounted rates,
sales in the western United States in 2004 were at two distinct
pricing levels   at historical wholesale prices for
the first six months of 2004 and at discounted rates for the
last six

29

Table of Contents   

months of 2004. In addition to changes in the sales structure in
2004, comparability of operating results was also impacted by
changes in fees, freight, and selling and marketing costs.

The Company s sales volume (shipments) increased 4.1%
to 225,300 barrels in 2005 as compared to
216,400 barrels in 2004. Sales in the craft beer industry
generally reflect a degree of seasonality, with the first and
fourth quarters historically being the slowest and the rest of
the year typically demonstrating stronger sales. The Company has
historically operated with little or no backlog, and its ability
to predict sales for future periods is limited.

The Company s sales are affected by several factors,
including consumer demand, price discounting and competitive
considerations. The Company competes in the highly competitive
craft brewing market as well as in the much larger specialty
beer market, which encompasses producers of import beers, major
national brewers that produce fuller-flavored products, and
large spirit companies and national brewers that produce
flavored alcohol beverages. Beyond the beer market, craft
brewers also face competition from producers of wines and
spirits. The craft beer segment is highly competitive due to the
proliferation of small craft brewers, including contract
brewers, and the large number of products offered by such
brewers. Imported products from foreign brewers have enjoyed
resurgence in demand since the mid-1990s. Certain national
domestic brewers have also sought to appeal to this growing
demand for craft beers by producing their own fuller-flavored
products. In last few years, the specialty segment has seen the
introduction of flavored alcohol beverages, the consumers of
which, industry sources generally believe, correlate closely
with the consumers of the import and craft beer products. Sales
of these flavored alcohol beverages were initially very strong;
while growth rates slowed in 2003 and 2004, sales in 2005
increased 4% as compared with 2004. The wine and spirits market
has also experienced a surge in the past several years,
attributable to competitive pricing, increased merchandising,
and increased consumer interest in wine and spirits. Because the
number of participants and number of different products offered
in this segment have increased significantly in the past ten
years, the competition for bottled product placements and
especially for draft beer placements has intensified.

The Company is required to pay federal excise taxes on sales of
its beer. The excise tax burden on beer sales increases from $7
to $18 per barrel on annual sales over 60,000 barrels
and thus, if sales volume increases, federal excise taxes would
increase as a percentage of sales. Most states also collect an
excise tax on the sale of beer.

Under normal circumstances, the Company operates its brewing
facilities up to six days per week with multiple shifts per day.
Under ideal brewing conditions (which would include, among other
factors, production of a single brand in a single package), the
current production capacity is approximately
250,000 barrels per year at the Washington Brewery and
125,000 barrels per year at the New Hampshire Brewery.
Because of various factors, including the following two, the
Company does not believe that it is likely that actual
production volume will approximate current production capacity:
(1) the Company s brewing process, which management
believes is similar to its competitors  brewing processes,
inherently results in some level of beer loss attributable to
filtering, bottling, and keg filling; and (2) the Company
routinely brews and packages various brands and package sizes
during the year.

In order to accommodate volume growth in the markets served by
the New Hampshire Brewery, the Company expanded fermentation
capacity during the first half of 2003, bringing the
brewery s production capacity from approximately
110,000 barrels per year at the end of December 2002 to the
current capacity of approximately 125,000 barrels per year.
Driven by further growth in the midwest and eastern markets, the
Company plans to again increase its fermentation capacity in
2006, estimating that the expansion will add another
20,000 barrels of capacity by July 2006. As with the 2003
and 2006 expansions, production capacity at the New Hampshire
Brewery can be added in phases until the facility reaches its
maximum designed production capacity of approximately
250,000 barrels per year, under ideal brewing conditions.
Such an increase would require additional capital expenditures,
primarily for fermentation equipment, and production personnel.
The decision to add capacity is affected by the availability of
capital, construction constraints and anticipated sales in new
and existing markets.

The Company s capacity utilization has a significant impact
on gross profit. Generally, when facilities are operating at
their maximum designed production capacities, profitability is
favorably affected because fixed

30

Table of Contents   

and semivariable operating costs, such as depreciation and
production salaries, are spread over a larger sales base.
Because current period production levels have been below the
Company s current production capacity, gross margins have
been negatively impacted. This negative impact could be reduced
if actual production increases.

In addition to capacity utilization, other factors that could
affect cost of sales and gross margin include sales to Craft
Brands at a price substantially below wholesale pricing levels,
sales of contract beer at a pre-determined contract price,
changes in freight charges, the availability and prices of raw
materials and packaging materials, the mix between draft and
bottled product sales, the sales mix of various bottled product
packages, and fees related to the Distribution Agreement with
A-B.

See Item 1A.  Risk Factors  above.

Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated,
certain items from the Company s Statements of Operations
expressed as a percentage of net sales:

31

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a
comparison of certain items from the Company s Statements
of Operations:

Sales.  Total sales declined $2,120,000 in 2005 as
compared to 2004, impacted by the following factors:

32

Table of Contents   

Shipments . Total sales volume in 2005 increased 4.1% to
    225,300 barrels from 216,400 barrels in 2004, the
    result of a 14.2% increase in shipments of draft products and
    partially offset by a 1.9% decrease in shipments of bottled
    products. Since the mid 1990s, the Company s sales of
    bottled beer have steadily increased as a percentage of total
    beer sales. This migration toward increasing bottled beer sales
    has reversed slightly over the past two years, with 59.2% of
    total shipments as bottle shipments versus 62.8% in 2004. 

Included in the Company s total shipments is beer brewed
    under a contract brewing arrangement with Widmer. In connection
    with the Supply and Distribution Agreement with Craft Brands, if
    shipments of the Company s products in the Craft Brands
    territory decrease as compared to the previous year s
    shipments, the Company has the right to brew Widmer products in
    an amount equal to the lower of (i) the Company s
    product shipment decrease or (ii) the Widmer product
    shipment increase. In addition, the Company may, at
    Widmer s request, agree to brew beer for Widmer in excess
    of the amount obligated by the contract. Under this contract
    brewing arrangement, the Company brewed and shipped
    8,900 barrels and 2,300 barrels of Widmer draft beer
    in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Of these shipments,
    approximately 20% of 2005 barrels were in excess of the
    contractual obligation and all of the 2004 barrels were in
    excess of the obligation. Excluding shipments under this
    arrangement, shipments of the Company s draft products
    increased 6.2% in the 2005 and total Company shipments increased
    1.1%. Driven by the contractual obligation as well as
    Widmer s production needs, the Company anticipates that
    beer brewed and shipped in 2006 under the contract brewing
    arrangement with Widmer will increase significantly over 2005
    levels. 

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company s products
    were distributed in 48 states. Shipments in the midwest and
    eastern United States increased by 9.4% in 2005 as compared to
    the same 2004 period but were partially offset by a 3.9% decline
    in shipments in the western United States. Contributing most
    significantly to the decline in shipments in the western United
    States were a 5.2% decrease in shipments to California and an
    18.6% decrease in shipments to Colorado, primarily attributable
    to a decrease in price discounting. A significant portion of the
    Company s sales continue to be in the Pacific Northwest
    region, which the Company believes is one of the most
    competitive craft beer markets in the United States, both
    in terms of number of market participants and consumer
    awareness. The Company faces extreme competitive pressure in
    Washington state, which is not only the Company s largest
    market but is also its oldest market. Since 2000, the Company
    has experienced a decline in sales volume in Washington state of
    approximately 20%. Shipments to Washington state decreased by
    1.8% in 2005 compared to 2004. Management believes that the
    decline can be partially attributable to the relative maturity
    of the brand in this region and, more recently, the formation of
    Craft Brands. The Company believes that the beer industry is
    influenced by individual relationships. The transition to Craft
    Brands impacted its established wholesaler and retailer
    relationships which, prior to Craft Brands, had existed for many
    years. Because the transition to Craft Brands took longer than
    anticipated, and because nearly all the Company s sales
    staff responsible for Washington state left the Company, the
    Company and Craft Brands have had to re-establish many of these
    relationships with wholesalers and retailers. During the second
    quarter of 2005, Craft Brands introduced in the western United
    States several major marketing initiatives aimed at updating the
    Redhook brand image, including a proprietary Redhook bottle and
    new packaging design, combined with a new marketing campaign.
    Sales have also been impacted by a reduction in the pricing
    promotions historically offered in these regions. 

Sales to Craft Brands represented approximately 56.2% of total
    shipments, or 126,000 barrels in 2005, compared to 29.4% of
    total shipments, or 63,600 barrels in 2004. 

Pricing and Fees . The Company sells its product at
    wholesale pricing levels in the midwest and eastern United
    States, at lower than historical wholesale pricing levels to
    Craft Brands in the western United States, and at agreed-upon
    pricing levels for beer brewed on a contract basis. 

The Company continues to sell its product at wholesale pricing
    levels in the midwest and eastern United States through sales to
    A-B. Average wholesale revenue per barrel for draft products,
    net of discounts, increased approximately 5.5% in 2005 as
    compared to 2004. Average wholesale revenue per 

33

Table of Contents   

barrel for bottled products, net of discounts, decreased
    approximately 0.6% in 2005 as compared to 2004. Seldom, if ever,
    are pricing changes driven by an inflationary period. Instead,
    pricing changes implemented by the Company generally follow
    pricing changes initiated by large domestic or import brewing
    companies. While the Company has implemented modest pricing
    increases during the past few years, some of the benefit has
    been offset by competitive promotions and discounting.
    Additionally, the Company may experience a decline in sales in
    certain regions following a price increase. 

The Company sells its product to Craft Brands at a price
    substantially below historical wholesale pricing levels pursuant
    to a Supply and Distribution Agreement with Craft Brands; Craft
    Brands, in turn, advertises, markets, sells and distributes the
    product to wholesale outlets in the western United States
    through a distribution agreement between Craft Brands and A-B.
    Average revenue per barrel for draft products sold to Craft
    Brands increased approximately 1.2% in 2005 as compared to 2004.
    Average revenue per barrel for bottled products sold to Craft
    Brands increased approximately 4.3% in 2005 as compared to 2004.
    The price charged Craft Brands is generally adjusted annually.
    Because Craft Brands  formation did not occur until July
    2004, approximately 68,000 barrels sold in the western
    United States in the first half of 2004 were at historical
    wholesale pricing levels. 

Average revenue per barrel on beer brewed on a contract basis is
    at agreed upon pricing levels between the Company and its
    customers and is generally at a price substantially lower than
    historical wholesale pricing levels. 

In connection with all sales through the Distribution Alliance
    prior to July 1, 2004, the Company paid a Margin fee to
    A-B. The Margin did not apply to sales to wholesalers and others
    that were part of the A-B distribution network but that were not
    part of the Distribution Alliance, including most sales to
    Washington state wholesalers, sales to non-A-B wholesalers,
    sales by the Company s retail operations, and dock sales.
    The July 1, 2004 A-B Distribution Agreement modified the
    Margin fee structure such that the Margin per barrel shipped
    increased and is paid on all sales through the new A-B
    Distribution Agreement. The Margin does not apply to sales to
    the Company s retail operations or to dock sales. The
    Margin also does not apply to the Company s sales to Craft
    Brands because Craft Brands pays a comparable fee to A-B on its
    resale of the product. The A-B Distribution Agreement also
    provides that the Company shall pay an additional fee on
    shipments that exceed shipments for the same territory during
    fiscal 2003 (the  Additional Margin ). In addition,
    the Exchange and Recapitalization Agreement provided that the
    Margin be retroactively increased to the rate provided in the
    A-B Distribution Agreement for all shipments in June 2004. In
    2005, the Margin was paid to A-B on shipments totaling
    85,000 barrels to 472 distribution points. Because 2005
    shipments in the midwest and eastern United States exceeded
    2003 shipments in the same territory, the Company paid A-B the
    Additional Margin on 7,000 barrels. For the six month
    period ended December 31, 2004, the Margin was paid to
     A-B  on shipments
    totaling 38,000 barrels to 371 distribution points and the
    retroactive increase on June 2004 shipments was paid on
    approximately 20,000 barrels. For the six months ended
    June 30, 2004, the Margin was paid to A-B on shipments
    totaling 84,000 barrels to 495 Alliance distribution
    points. The Margin paid is reflected as a reduction of sales in
    the Company s statements of operations. 

Retail Operations and Other Sales . Sales in the
    Company s retail operations and other sales increased
    $465,000 to $5,317,000 in 2005 from $4,851,000 for same 2004
    period, primarily the result of an increase in special event and
    food sales. 

Excise Taxes.  Excise taxes increased $153,000 to
$3,421,000 in 2005 compared to $3,268,000 in 2004, primarily the
result of the overall increase in 2005 shipments compared to
2004. The Company continues to be responsible for federal and
state excise taxes for all shipments, including those to Craft
Brands and those brewed under contract. The comparability of
excise taxes as a percentage of net sales is impacted by average
revenue per barrel, the mix of sales in the midwest and eastern
United States, sales to Craft Brands, sales of beer brewed on a
contract basis, pub sales, and the estimated annual average
federal and state excise tax rates.

Cost of Sales.  Comparing 2005 and 2004, cost of sales
increased 1.4%, or $373,000, yet declined on a per barrel basis.
The decline on a per barrel basis is primarily attributable to a
decrease in freight, offset by a slight increase in the cost of
new packaging. Although the Company experienced higher freight
costs on

34

Table of Contents   

shipments to midwest and eastern markets during the second half
of 2005, full year freight costs declined by nearly 27% compared
to 2004, as the cost of shipping Redhook products in the western
United States became the responsibility of Craft Brands in the
third quarter of 2004. The Company introduced a new packaging
and label design in the western United States markets in May
2005 and in midwest and eastern United States in the fourth
quarter of 2005. Based upon the breweries  combined current
production capacity of 375,000 barrels for 2005 and 2004,
the utilization rates were 60.1% and 57.7%, respectively.

In January 2003, the Company entered into a licensing agreement
with Widmer to produce and sell  Widmer Hefeweizen  in
states east of the Mississippi River. Brewing of this product is
conducted at the New Hampshire Brewery under the supervision and
assistance of Widmer s brewing staff to insure their
brand s quality and matching taste profile. The Company
shipped 26,000 and 18,000 barrels of  Widmer Hefeweizen
 during 2005 and 2004, respectively. A licensing fee of
$399,000 and $266,000 due to Widmer is reflected in the
Company s statement of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.  Selling,
general and administrative expenses decreased $855,000 to
$6,784,000 from expenses of $7,639,000 in 2004, significantly
impacted by the formation of Craft Brands. A significant
reduction in advertising, marketing and selling costs in the
western United States following the transition to Craft Brands
was somewhat offset by an increase in advertising and
promotional spending and additional sales personnel in midwest
and eastern markets. While the Company and Widmer sought the
regulatory approval required for Craft Brands to become fully
operational, they agreed to share certain sales-related costs,
primarily salaries and overhead. The Company s share of
those costs totaled $554,000 in 2004 and is reflected in the
Company s statement of operations as selling, general and
administrative expenses.

Income from Equity Investment in Craft Brands.  In
accordance with the Craft Brands Operating Agreement, the
Company made a $250,000 sales and marketing capital contribution
to Craft Brands, which was to be used by Craft Brands for
expenses related to the marketing, advertising, and promotion of
Redhook products. After giving effect to the allocation of the
Special Marketing Expense, which is allocated 100% to Redhook,
and giving effect to income attributable to the Kona brand,
which is shared differently between the Company and Widmer
through 2006, the Operating Agreement dictates that remaining
profits and losses of Craft Brands are allocated between the
Company and Widmer based on the cash flow percentages of 42% and
58%, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2005,
the Company s share of Craft Brands net income totaled
$2,392,000. This share of Craft Brands  profit was net of
$135,000 of the Special Marketing Expense that had been incurred
by Craft Brands during the same period and was fully allocated
to the Company. As of December 31, 2005, the entire
$250,000 2004 sales and marketing capital contribution made by
the Company had been used by Craft Brands for designated Special
Marketing Expenses and netted against Craft Brands  profits
allocated to the Company. For the six months ended
December 31, 2004, the Company s share of Craft
Brands  net income totaled $1,123,000. This share of Craft
Brands  profit was net of $115,000 of the Special Marketing
Expense that had been incurred by Craft Brands during the same
period and was fully allocated to the Company. Net cash flow of
Craft Brands, if any, is generally distributed monthly to the
Company based on the Company s cash flow percentage of 42%.
During the 2005 and 2004, the Company received cash
distributions of $2,769,000 and $903,000, respectively,
representing its share of the net cash flow of Craft Brands.

Craft Brands Shared Formation Expenses.  In conjunction
with the formation of Craft Brands, both the Company and Widmer
incurred certain
 start-up  expenses,
including severance expenses and legal fees. The Company s
operating income (loss) reflects $535,000 attributable to the
Company s share of these expenses for the year ended
December 31, 2004.

Interest Expense.  Interest expense was $271,000 in 2005,
up from $189,000 in 2004. Higher average interest rates in 2005,
partially offset by a declining term loan balance, resulted in
an increase in interest expense.

Other Income (Expense)   Net.  Other income
(expense)   net increased by $9,000 to income of
$125,000 in 2005 compared to income of $116,000 in 2004. Results
for 2005 include approximately $126,000 in interest income
earned on interest-bearing deposits and $26,000 resulting from
loss on the disposal of

35

Table of Contents   

brewing equipment. Results for 2004 include approximately
$45,000 in interest income earned on interest-bearing deposits
and $71,000 of other income, primarily consisting of a filing
commission from a state taxing authority.

Income Taxes.  The Company s effective income tax
rate was a 22.1% expense in 2005 as compared to a 35.8% expense
for in 2004. In 2005 and 2004, the Company increased the
valuation allowance by $502,000 and $416,000, respectively, to
cover net tax operating loss carryforwards and other net
deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance covers a portion of
the Company s deferred tax assets, specifically certain
federal and state NOLs that may expire before the Company is
able to utilize the tax benefit. Realization of the benefit is
dependent on the Company s ability to generate future
U.S. taxable income. To the extent that the Company
continues to be unable to generate adequate taxable income in
future periods, the Company will not be able to recognize
additional tax benefits and may be required to record a greater
valuation allowance covering potentially expiring NOLs. As
discussed in Note 2 to the Financial Statements, the
Company has restated the financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 2004 in order to correct an overstatement of
the Company s deferred tax asset, which is netted against
the Company s deferred income tax liability on the
Company s balance sheet. The Company overstated its NOLs
with the state of New Hampshire by recording NOLs in excess of
limits prescribed by law, leading to an understatement of the
Company s income tax provision and an overstatement of the
Company s deferred tax asset. The effect of the adjustment
on the statement of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2004 is to increase the income tax provision
and the net loss by $301,000, resulting in an increase in the
Company s effective tax rate from 3.2% to 35.8% expense.

Craft Brands Alliance LLC   

The Company has accounted for its investment in Craft Brands
under the equity method, as outlined by APB Opinion No. 18,
 The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common
Stock . Pursuant to APB No. 18, the Company has recorded
its share of Craft Brands  net income in the Company s
statement of operations as income from equity investment in
Craft Brands. Separate financial statements for Craft Brands are
included in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  in
Part IV., Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules , in accordance with Rule 3-09 of
Regulation  S-X. 
The following summarizes a comparison of certain items from
Craft Brands  statements of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2005 and the six months ended
December 31, 2004.

Sales.  Craft Brands  sales totaled $60,784,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2005 and $27,777,000 for the
six months ended December 31, 2004. In addition to selling
126,000 barrels of the Company s product to
wholesalers in the Western Territory during the year ended
December 31, 2005 and 63,600 barrels during the six
months ended December 31, 2004, Craft Brands also sold
products brewed by Widmer and Kona Brewery LLC
( Kona ). Average wholesale revenue per barrel for all
draft products sold by Craft Brands, net of discounts, increased
approximately 1.1% during the twelve months of 2005 as compared
to the six months of 2004. Average wholesale revenue per barrel
for all bottle products sold by Craft Brands, net of discounts,
increased approximately 1.7% during the twelve months of 2005 as
compared to the six months of 2004. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, average wholesale revenue per barrel for
all products sold by Craft Brands was approximately 5.4% higher
than average wholesale revenue per barrel on sales to
wholesalers by the Company during the same period. Craft
Brands  sales efforts during 2005 and 2004 included a
reduction in discounting on the Company s products. Craft
Brands also pays a fee to A-B in connection with sales to A-B
that are comparable to fees paid by the Company.

Cost of Sales.  Cost of sales for Craft Brands totaled
$44,822,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 and
$20,104,000 for the six months ended December 31, 2004. On
a per barrel basis, cost of sales increased modestly due to
prices at which Craft Brands purchased product from the Company
and Widmer. Craft Brands purchases product from the Company and
Widmer at prices substantially below wholesale pricing levels
pursuant to the Supply and Distribution Agreement between Craft
Brands and each of the Company and Widmer. Craft Brands has
realized improvement in its average freight cost per barrel over
the Company s historical costs, largely as a result of
synergies created by negotiating its shipping relationships as a
single larger entity.

36

Table of Contents   

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.  Craft
Brands  selling, general and administrative expenses
totaled $9,708,000 for year ended December 31, 2005 and
$4,704,000 for the six months ended December 31, 2004,
reflecting all advertising, marketing and promotion efforts for
the Company s, Widmer s and Kona s brands. During
2005, Craft Brands focused significant effort on advertising and
promotion in conjunction with the May 2005 introduction of new
packaging for the Company s bottled product. Selling,
general and administrative expenses of Craft Brands for 2005
includes approximately $135,000 designated as Special Marketing
Expense. During the six months ended December 31, 2004,
Craft Brands suspended many of the Company s major
advertising and promotion efforts while it completed an
assessment of the Redhook brand. Selling, general and
administrative expenses of Craft Brands for the six months ended
December 31, 2004 includes approximately $115,000
designated as Special Marketing Expense. As of December 31,
2005, the entire $250,000 2004 sales and marketing capital
contribution made by the Company had been used by Craft Brands
for designated Special Marketing Expenses and netted against
Craft Brands  2004 and 2005 profits allocated to the
Company.

Net Income.  Craft Brands  net income totaled
$5,924,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 and
$2,869,000 for the six months ended December 31, 2004. The
Company s share of Craft Brands  net income totaled
$2,392,000 and $1,123,000 for these respective periods. After
giving effect to the allocation of the Special Marketing
Expense, which is allocated 100% to Redhook, and giving effect
to income attributable to the Kona brand, which is shared
differently between the Company and Widmer through 2006, the
Operating Agreement dictates that remaining profits and losses
of Craft Brands are allocated between the Company and Widmer
based on the cash flow percentages of 42% and 58%, respectively.

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a
comparison of certain items from the Company s statements
of operations:

37

Table of Contents   

Sales.  Total sales declined $5,573,000 in 2004 as
compared to 2003, impacted by the following factors:

Shipments .  Total Company shipments declined 5.4%.
    Total sales volume for 2004 decreased to 216,400 barrels
    from 228,800 barrels for the same period in 2003, the
    result of an 8.5% decrease in shipments of its bottled products
    and a 0.2% increase in shipments of the Company s draft
    products. Since the mid 1990s, bottled beer sales have steadily
    increased as a percentage of total beer sales. However, this
    migration toward increasing bottle beer sales reversed slightly
    in 2004, with 62.8% of total shipments in 2004 being bottled
    beer shipments versus 64.9% in 2003. Excluding shipments of beer
    brewed under contract, shipments of the Company s draft
    products decreased 2.5% and total Company shipments decreased
    6.4% in 2004. 

At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company s products
    were distributed in 48 states. Although shipments in the
    midwest and eastern United States decreased slightly, a 7.8%
    decline in west coast volume, including a 12.0% decrease in
    shipments in Washington state, contributed to the majority of
    the overall sales volume decrease. A significant portion of the
    Company s sales continue to be in the Pacific Northwest
    region, which the Company believes is one of the most
    competitive craft beer markets in the United States, both in
    terms of number of market participants and consumer awareness.
    The Company faces extreme competitive pressure in Washington
    state, which is not only the Company s largest market but
    is also its oldest market. From 1997 through 2004, the Company
    experienced a decline in sales volume in Washington state of
    approximately 17%. Management believes that the decline can be
    partially attributable to the relative maturity of the brand in
    this region and, more recently, the formation of Craft Brands.
    The Company believes that the beer industry is influenced by
    individual relationships. The transition to Craft Brands
    impacted its established wholesaler and retailer relationships
    which, prior to Craft Brands, had existed for many years.
    Because the transition to Craft Brands took longer than
    anticipated, and because nearly all the Company s sales
    staff responsible for Washington state left the Company, the
    Company and Craft Brands have had to re-establish many of these
    relationships with wholesalers and retailers. Sales have also
    been impacted by a reduction in the pricing promotions
    historically offered in this region. 

Approximately 29.4%, or 63,600 barrels, of the 2004 total
    shipments were sold to Craft Brands at a price substantially
    below wholesale pricing levels. 

Pricing and Fees . Significantly impacting the
    comparability of 2004 to 2003 are those sales of Redhook product
    to Craft Brands in the second half of 2004. The Company sells
    its product at wholesale pricing levels in the midwest and
    eastern United States, at lower than historical wholesale
    pricing levels to Craft Brands in the western United States, and
    at agreed-upon pricing levels for beer brewed on a contract
    basis. 

The Company continues to sell its product at wholesale pricing
    levels in the midwest and eastern United States through sales to
    A-B. Average wholesale revenue per barrel on sales in the
    midwest and eastern United States showed modest improvement
    while fees that the Company paid to A-B on sales in these same
    regions increased pursuant to the July 1, 2004 Distribution
    Agreement with A-B. Improvement in average wholesale revenue per
    barrel was driven by strength in pricing in many of the
    Company s markets, although the 2004 average revenue per
    barrel did experience some downward pressure as a result 

38

Table of Contents   

of the contract brewing arrangement with Widmer, sold at a
    significantly lower revenue per barrel during the second quarter
    of 2004. Average wholesale revenue per barrel for draft
    products, excluding contract sales and net of discounts,
    increased approximately 1.3% in 2004 as compared to 2003. This
    increase in pricing accounted for approximately $130,000 of the
    change in total sales. Average wholesale revenue per barrel for
    bottled products, net of discounts, increased approximately 1.9%
    in 2004 as compared to 2003. This increase in pricing accounted
    for approximately $580,000 of the change in total sales. Seldom,
    if ever, are pricing changes driven by an inflationary period.
    Instead, pricing changes implemented by the Company generally
    follow pricing changes initiated by large domestic or import
    brewing companies. While the Company has implemented modest
    pricing increases during the past few years, some of the benefit
    has been offset by competitive promotions and discounting.
    Additionally, the Company may experience a decline in sales in
    certain regions following a price increase. 

The Company sells its product to Craft Brands at a price
    substantially below historical wholesale pricing levels; Craft
    Brands, in turn, advertises, markets, sells and distributes the
    product to wholesale outlets in the western United States
    through a distribution agreement between Craft Brands and A-B.
    For the year ended December 31, 2004, sales to Craft Brands
    represented 29.4% of total shipments, or 63,600 barrels.
    Because Craft Brands  formation did not occur until July
    2004, approximately 68,000 barrels sold in the western
    United States in the first half of 2004 were at historical
    wholesale pricing levels. 

In connection with all sales through the Distribution Alliance
    prior to July 1, 2004, the Company paid a Margin fee to
    A-B. The Margin did not apply to sales to wholesalers and others
    that were part of the A-B distribution network but that were not
    part of the Distribution Alliance, including most sales to
    Washington state wholesalers, sales to non-A-B wholesalers,
    sales by the Company s retail operations, and dock sales.
    The July 1, 2004 A-B Distribution Agreement modified the
    Margin fee structure such that the Margin per barrel shipped
    increased and is paid on all sales through the new A-B
    Distribution Agreement. The Margin does not apply to sales to
    the Company s retail operations or to dock sales. The
    Margin also does not apply to the Company s sales to Craft
    Brands because Craft Brands pays a comparable fee to A-B on its
    resale of the product. The A-B Distribution Agreement also
    provides that the Company shall pay an additional fee on
    shipments that exceed shipments for the same territory during
    fiscal 2003. In addition, the Exchange and Recapitalization
    Agreement provided that the Margin be retroactively increased to
    the rate provided in the A-B Distribution Agreement for all
    shipments in June 2004. For the six month period ended
    December 31, 2004, the Margin was paid to A-B on shipments
    totaling 38,000 barrels to 371 distribution points and the
    retroactive increase on June 2004 shipments was paid on
    approximately 20,000 barrels. For the six months ended
    June 30, 2004, the Margin was paid to A-B on shipments
    totaling 84,000 barrels to 495 Alliance distribution
    points. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Margin
    was paid to A-B on shipments totaling 166,000 barrels to
    527 Alliance distribution points. The Margin paid is reflected
    as a reduction of sales in the Company s statement of
    operations. 

Retail Operations and Other . Sales other than wholesale
    beer sales, primarily retail pub revenues, totaled $4,851,000 in
    2004 compared to $4,581,000 in 2003. This increase was primarily
    a result of an improvement in overall pub activity, driven by
    favorable weather, increased attendance at events held at the
    breweries to promote the Company s products, and modest
    pricing increases in some pub fare. 

Excise Taxes.  Excise taxes decreased $230,000 to
$3,268,000 in 2004 compared to $3,498,000 in 2003. The Company
continues to be responsible for federal and state excise taxes
for all shipments, including those to Craft Brands. The
comparability of excise taxes as a percentage of net sales is
impacted most significantly by the sale of Redhook product to
Craft Brands at a price substantially below wholesale pricing
levels, but also by average revenue per barrel, the proportion
of pub sales to total sales, and the estimated annual average
federal and state excise tax rates.

Cost of Sales.  Comparing 2004 to 2003, cost of sales
decreased 5.3%, or $1,531,000, but remained flat on a per barrel
basis. Freight costs declined by approximately 30% as the cost
of shipping Redhook product in the western United States was
assumed by Craft Brands in July 2004, and the Company s
effort at streamlining its shipping relationships in the midwest
and eastern United States yielded additional savings.

39

Table of Contents   

Improvement in the Company s malted barley cost in 2004 was
offset by increases in other indirect costs, including
depreciation and production wages. Depreciation and production
wages increased following the 2003 expansion of brewing capacity
in the Company s New Hampshire Brewery. Based upon the
breweries  combined current production capacity of
375,000 barrels in 2004 and 371,250 barrels for the
same 2003 period, the utilization rates were 57.7% and 61.6%,
respectively.

In January 2003, the Company entered into a licensing agreement
with Widmer to produce and sell  Widmer Hefeweizen  in
states east of the Mississippi River. Brewing of this product is
conducted at the New Hampshire Brewery under the supervision and
assistance of Widmer s brewing staff to insure their
brand s quality and matching taste profile. The Company
shipped 18,000 and 12,000 barrels of  Widmer Hefeweizen
 during 2004 and 2003, respectively. A licensing fee of
$266,000 and $166,000 due to Widmer is reflected in the
Company s statement of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.  Selling,
general and administrative expenses decreased $4,050,000 to
$7,639,000 from expenses of $11,689,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2003, significantly impacted by the formation
of Craft Brands as well as Company efforts to re-focus its sales
and marketing spending in its primary markets. All advertising,
marketing and selling costs in the western United States became
the responsibility of Craft Brands on July 1, 2004. While
the Company and Widmer sought the regulatory approval required
for Craft Brands to become fully operational, they agreed to
share certain sales-related costs, primarily salaries and
overhead. The Company s share of those costs totaled
$554,000 for 2004 and is reflected in the Company s
statement of operations as selling, general and administrative
expenses.

Income from Equity Investment in Craft Brands.  In
accordance with the Craft Brands Operating Agreement, the
Company made a $250,000 sales and marketing capital contribution
to Craft Brands, which was to be used by Craft Brands for
expenses related to the marketing, advertising, and promotion of
Redhook products. After giving effect to the allocation of the
Special Marketing Expense, which is allocated 100% to Redhook,
and giving effect to income attributable to the Kona brand,
which is shared differently between the Company and Widmer
through 2006, the Operating Agreement dictates that remaining
profits and losses of Craft Brands are allocated between the
Company and Widmer based on the cash flow percentages of 42% and
58%, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2004,
the Company s share of Craft Brands  net income
totaled $1,123,000. This share of Craft Brands  profit was
net of $115,000 of the Special Marketing Expense that had been
incurred by Craft Brands during the same period and was fully
allocated to the Company. Net cash flow of Craft Brands, if any,
is generally distributed monthly to the Company based on the
Company s cash flow percentage of 42%. The Company received
cash distributions of $903,000 in 2004, representing its share
of the net cash flow of Craft Brands.

Craft Brands Shared Formation Expenses.  In conjunction
with the formation of Craft Brands, both the Company and Widmer
incurred certain
 start-up  expenses,
including severance expenses and legal fees. The Company s
operating income (loss) reflects $535,000 attributable to the
Company s share of these expenses for the year ended
December 31, 2004.

Interest Expense.  Interest expense was $189,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2004, down from $192,000 for the
same period in 2003. A declining term loan balance offset by
slightly higher average interest rates in the last half of 2004
resulted in a decline in interest expense.

Other Income (Expense)   Net.  Other income
(expense)   net increased to income of $116,000 in
2004 compared to income of $59,000 in 2003, due primarily to
receipt of a filing commission from a state taxing authority and
rental fees.

Income Taxes.  The Company s effective income tax
rate was a 35.8% expense for the year ended December 31,
2004 and a 1.6% expense for the comparable 2003 period. In 2004
and 2003, the Company increased the valuation allowance to fully
cover net tax operating loss carryforwards and other net
deferred tax assets that were generated during the period. The
valuation allowance covers a portion of the Company s
deferred tax assets, specifically certain federal and state NOLs
that may expire before the Company is able to utilize the tax
benefit. Realization of the benefit is dependent on the
Company s ability to generate future U.S. taxable
income. To the extent that the Company continues to be unable to
generate adequate taxable

40

Table of Contents   

income in future periods, the Company will not be able to
recognize additional tax benefits and may be required to record
a greater valuation allowance covering potentially expiring
NOLs. As discussed in Note 2 to the Financial Statements,
the Company has restated the financial statements for the year
ended December 31, 2004 in order to correct an
overstatement of the Company s deferred tax asset, which is
netted against the Company s deferred income tax liability
on the Company s balance sheet. The Company overstated its
NOLs with the state of New Hampshire by recording NOLs in excess
of limits prescribed by law, leading to an understatement of the
Company s income tax provision and an overstatement of the
Company s deferred tax asset. The effect of the adjustment
on the statement of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2004 is to increase the income tax provision
and the net loss by $301,000, resulting in an increase in the
Company s effective income tax rate from 3.1% to 35.8%
expense.

Craft Brands Alliance LLC   

The Company has accounted for its investment in Craft Brands
under the equity method, as outlined by APB Opinion No. 18,
 The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common
Stock.  Pursuant to APB No. 18, the Company has recorded
its share of Craft Brands  net income in the Company s
statement of operations as income from equity investment in
Craft Brands. Separate financial statements for Craft Brands are
filed with the Company s
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2004, in Part IV.,
Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 in accordance with Rule 3-09 of
Regulation  S-X. 
The following summarizes certain items included in Craft
Brands  statement of operations for the six months ended
December 31, 2004.

Sales.  Craft Brands  sales totaled $27,777,000 for
the six month period ended December 31, 2004. In addition
to selling 63,600 barrels of the Company s product to
wholesalers in the Western Territory, Craft Brands also sold
products brewed by Widmer and Kona. Average wholesale revenue
per barrel for all products sold by Craft Brands for the six
month period ended December 31, 2004 was approximately 2%
higher than average wholesale revenue per barrel on sales to
wholesalers by the Company during the year ended
December 31, 2004. Craft Brands  sales efforts during
the last half of 2004 included a reduction in discounting on the
Company s products. Craft Brands also pays a fee to A-B in
connection with sales to A-B that are comparable to fees paid by
the Company.

Cost of Sales.  Cost of sales for Craft Brands totaled
$20,104,000 for the six month period ended December 31,
2004. Craft Brands purchases product from the Company and Widmer
at prices substantially below wholesale pricing levels pursuant
to the Supply and Distribution Agreement between Craft Brands
and each of the Company and Widmer. Craft Brands realized
improvement in its average freight cost per barrel over the
Company s historical costs, largely a result of synergies
created by negotiating its shipping relationships as a single
larger entity.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.  Craft
Brands  selling, general and administrative expenses
totaled $4,704,000 for the six month 2004 period, reflecting all
advertising, marketing and promotion efforts for the
Company s, Widmer s and Kona s brands. During the
six months ended December 31, 2004, Craft Brands suspended
many of the Company s major advertising and promotion
efforts while it completed an assessment of brand. In accordance
with the Craft Brands Operating Agreement, the Company made a
$250,000 sales and marketing capital contribution on
July 1, 2004, which was to be used by Craft Brands for
expenses related to the marketing, advertising, and promotion of
Redhook products. Selling, general and administrative expenses
for Craft Brands for the six month period ended
December 31, 2004 includes approximately $115,000
designated as Special Marketing Expense.

Net Income.  Craft Brands  net income totaled
$2,869,000 for the six month period ended December 31,
2004. The Company s share of Craft Brands  net income
totaled $1,123,000. After giving effect to the allocation of the
Special Marketing Expense, which is allocated 100% to Redhook,
and giving effect to income attributable to the Kona brand,
which is shared differently between the Company and Widmer
through 2006, the Operating Agreement dictates that remaining
profits and losses of Craft Brands are allocated between the
Company and Widmer based on the cash flow percentages of 42% and
58%, respectively.

41

Table of Contents   

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company has required capital principally for the
construction and development of its production facilities.
Historically, the Company has financed its capital requirements
through cash flow from operations, bank borrowings and the sale
of common and preferred stock. The Company expects to meet its
future financing needs and working capital and capital
expenditure requirements through cash on hand, operating cash
flow and bank borrowings, and to the extent required and
available, offerings of debt or equity securities.

The Company had $6,436,000 and $5,590,000 of cash and cash
equivalents at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. At
December 31, 2005, the Company had working capital of
$5,232,000. The Company s long-term debt as a percentage of
total capitalization (long-term debt and common
stockholders  equity) was 8.0% and 8.4% as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Cash provided by
operating activities decreased to $1,509,000 in 2005 from
$2,156,000 in 2004. Cash provided by operating activities was
lower in 2005 as a result of the timing of collection of
accounts receivable and the trade receivable from Craft Brands,
a reduction in the December 31, 2003 inventory level to a
lower level at December 31, 2004 and 2005, timing and
payment of trade payables, a significant payment in 2005 to
return pallet deposits to A-B, and normal fluctuations in other
operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by cash
distributions resulting from the Company s investment in
Craft Brands. In conjunction with the shipment of its products
to wholesalers, the Company collects refundable deposits on its
pallets. In certain circumstances when the pallets are returned
to the Company, A-B may return the deposit to the wholesaler. In
May 2005, the Company reimbursed A-B approximately $881,000 for
these pallet deposits.

The Company s capital expenditures for 2005 totaled
$585,000, including approximately $125,000 related to
improvements to the Washington Brewery bottling line to
accommodate the new packaging and bottle and $135,000 for
upgrades to the Company s information technology system.
Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2006 are expected to total
approximately $888,000, primarily for additional fermentation
tanks for the New Hampshire Brewery. In connection with the
shipment of its draft products to wholesalers through the
 A-B  Distribution
Agreement, the Company collects refundable deposits on its kegs.
Because wholesalers generally hold an inventory of the
Company s kegs at their warehouse and in retail
establishments,  A-B 
assists in monitoring the inventory of kegs to insure that the
wholesaler can account for all kegs shipped. When a wholesaler
cannot account for some of the Company s kegs for which it
is responsible, the wholesaler pays the Company, for each keg
determined to be lost, a fixed fee and also forfeits the
deposit. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
reduced its brewery equipment by $305,000 collected in lost keg
fees and forfeited deposits.

The Company has a credit agreement with a bank under which a
term loan (the  Term Loan ) is provided. The Term Loan
matures on June 5, 2007 and has a
 20-year  amortization
schedule. The credit agreement also provided for a
$2 million revolving credit facility; however, the Company
did not renew the revolving facility upon the July 1, 2004
expiration of the commitment period. There were no borrowings
outstanding under the revolving facility at the time of its
expiration.

The Term Loan is secured by substantially all of the
Company s assets. Since June 5, 2002, interest on the
Term Loan accrued at a variable rate based on the London Inter
Bank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus 1.75%. The Company
has the option to fix the applicable interest rate for up to
twelve months by selecting LIBOR for one- to twelve- month
periods as a base. As of December 31, 2005, there was
$5.175 million outstanding on the Term Loan, and the
Company s one-month LIBOR-based borrowing rate was 6.1%.
The termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement for any reason
would constitute an event of default under the credit agreement
and the bank may declare the entire outstanding loan balance
immediately due and payable. See Item 1A.  Risk
Factors  above. If this were to occur, the Company could seek
to refinance its Term Loan with one or more banks or obtain
additional equity capital; however, there can be no assurance
the Company would be able to access additional capital to meet
its needs or that such additional capital would be at
commercially reasonable terms.

The terms of the credit agreement require the Company to meet
certain financial covenants. These financial covenants, as
defined in the credit agreement, are as follows: the capital
ratio (total liabilities to tangible net worth) must be less
than 1.25:1; working capital must be greater than $1,900,000;
and the fixed

42

Table of Contents   

charge coverage ratio (cash flow to debt service) must be
greater than 1.15:1. The Company was in compliance with all
covenants for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 and
expects that it will remain in compliance with its debt
covenants for the next twelve months. In December 2001, March
2003, February 2004 and October 2004, the credit agreement was
amended to modify several financial covenants. In January 2006,
the credit agreement was amended to eliminate the tangible net
worth covenant (shareholders  equity less intangible
assets) as of the year ended December 31, 2005. These
modifications to the financial covenants have reduced the
likelihood that a violation of the covenants by the Company will
occur in the future. However, if the Company were to report a
significant net loss for one or more quarters within a time
period covered by the financial covenants, one or more of the
covenants would be negatively impacted and could cause a
violation. Failure to meet the covenants required by the credit
agreement is an event of default and, at its option, the bank
could deny a request for a waiver and declare the entire
outstanding loan balance immediately due and payable. In such a
case, the Company would seek to refinance the loan with one or
more banks, potentially at less desirable terms. However, there
can be no guarantee that additional financing would be available
at commercially reasonable terms, if at all.

The following table summarizes the financial covenants required
by the Term Loan and the Company s current level of
compliance with these covenants:

43

Table of Contents   

Contractual Commitments.  The Company has certain
commitments, contingencies and uncertainties relating to its
normal operations. As of December 31, 2005, contractual
commitments associated with the Company s long-term debt,
operating leases and raw material purchase commitments are as
follows:

(1)  
     
    Represents annual principal payments required on the
    Company s Term Loan and annual lease payments (including
    portion of payments imputed as interest) on capital lease
    obligations. Interest on the Term Loan accrues at LIBOR plus
    1.75% and interest on capital leases are calculated at the
    Company s incremental borrowing rate at the inception of
    each lease. Monthly interest payments on the Term Loan are not
    reflected above. The termination of the A-B Distribution
    Agreement for any reason would constitute an event of default
    under the credit agreement and the bank may declare the entire
    outstanding loan balance immediately due and payable. 

(2)  
     
    Represents minimum aggregate future lease payments under
    noncancelable operating leases. 

(3)  
     
    Represents purchase commitments to ensure that the Company has
    the necessary supply of malted barley and specialty hops to meet
    future production requirements. Payments for malted barley are
    made as deliveries are received. Hop contracts generally provide
    for payment upon delivery of the product with the balance due on
    any unshipped product during the year following the harvest
    year. The Company believes that, based upon its relationships
    with its hop suppliers, the risk of non-delivery is low and that
    if non-delivery of its required supply of hops were to occur,
    the Company would be able to purchase hops to support its
    operations from other competitive sources. Malt and hop
    commitments in excess of future requirements, if any, will not
    materially affect the Company s financial condition or
    results of operations. 

(4)  
     
    Represents legally-binding production and operating purchase
    commitments. 

Certain Considerations: Issues and Uncertainties 

The Company does not provide forecasts of future financial
performance or sales volumes, although this Annual Report
contains certain other types of forward-looking statements that
involve risks and uncertainties. The Company may, in discussions
of its future plans, objectives and expected performance in
periodic reports filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (or documents incorporated by reference
therein) and in written and oral presentations made by the
Company, include forward-looking statements within the meaning
of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. Such forward-looking statements are based on
assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable, but are by
their nature inherently uncertain. In all cases, there can be no
assurance that such assumptions will prove correct or that
projected events will occur. Actual results could differ
materially from those projected depending on a variety of
factors, including, but not limited to, the successful execution
of market development and other plans, and the availability of
financing and the issues discussed in Item 1A.  Risk
Factors  above. In the event of a negative outcome of any one
these factors, the trading price of the Company s Common
Stock could decline and an investment in the Company s
Common Stock could be impaired.

44

Table of Contents   

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The Company s financial statements are based upon the
selection and application of significant accounting policies
that require management to make significant estimates and
assumptions. Management believes that the following are some of
the more critical judgment areas in the application of the
Company s accounting policies that currently affect its
financial condition and results of operations. Judgments and
uncertainties affecting the application of these policies may
result in materially different amounts being reported under
different conditions or using different assumptions.

Income Taxes.  The Company records federal and state
income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
 Accounting for Income Taxes.  Deferred income taxes or tax
benefits reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between
the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and amounts as measured for tax purposes. As of
December 31, 2005, the Company s deferred tax assets
were primarily comprised of NOLs of $30.2 million, or
$10.3 million tax-effected; federal alternative minimum tax
credit carryforwards of $135,000; and state NOL carryforwards of
$500,000 tax-effected. In assessing the realizability of the
deferred tax assets, the Company considered whether it is more
likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax
assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of
deferred tax assets is dependent upon the existence of, or
generation of, taxable income during the periods in which those
temporary differences become deductible. The Company considered
the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected
future taxable income and other factors in making this
assessment. The Company s estimates of future taxable
income took into consideration, among other items, estimates of
future tax deductions related to depreciation. Based upon the
available evidence, the Company does not believe it is more
likely than not that all of the deferred tax assets will be
realized. Accordingly, the Company established a valuation
allowance in 2002 and increased it further in 2003, 2004 and
2005 to cover certain federal and state NOLs that may expire
before the Company is able to utilize the tax benefit. As of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had a valuation
allowance of $1,656,000 and $1,154,000, respectively. To the
extent that the Company continues to be unable to generate
adequate taxable income in future periods, the Company will not
be able to recognize additional tax benefits and may be required
to record a greater valuation allowance covering potentially
expiring NOLs.

Long-Lived Assets.  The Company evaluates potential
impairment of long-lived assets in accordance with
SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  SFAS No. 144
establishes procedures for review of recoverability and
measurement of impairment, if necessary, of long-lived assets,
goodwill and certain identifiable intangibles. When facts and
circumstances indicate that the carrying values of long-lived
assets may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability is
performed by comparing the carrying value of the assets to
projected future undiscounted cash flows in addition to other
quantitative and qualitative analyses. Upon indication that the
carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable, the
Company will recognize an impairment loss by a charge against
current operations. Fixed assets are grouped at the lowest level
for which there are identifiable cash flows when assessing
impairment. During 2005, the Company performed an analysis of
its brewery assets to determine if an impairment might exist.
The Company s estimate of future undiscounted cash flows
indicated that such carrying values were expected to be
recovered. Nonetheless, it is possible that the estimate of
future undiscounted cash flows may change in the future,
resulting in the need to write down those assets to their fair
value.

Investment in Craft Brands.  The Company has assessed its
investment in Craft Brands pursuant to the provisions of
FIN No. 46R,  Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities   an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. 
FIN No. 46R clarifies the application of consolidation
accounting for certain entities that do not have sufficient
equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from other parties or
in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a
controlling financial interest; these entities are referred to
as variable interest entities. Variable interest entities within
the scope of FIN No. 46R are required to be
consolidated by their primary beneficiary. The primary
beneficiary of a variable interest entity is determined to be
the party that absorbs a majority of the entity s expected
losses, receives a majority of its expected returns, or both.
FIN No. 46R also requires disclosure of significant
variable interests in variable interest entities for which a
company is not the primary beneficiary. The Company has
concluded that its investment in Craft Brands meets the
definition of a variable interest entity

45

Table of Contents   

but that the Company is not the primary beneficiary. In
accordance with FIN No. 46R, the Company has not
consolidated the financial statements of Craft Brands with the
financial statements of the Company, but instead accounted for
its investment in Craft Brands under the equity method, as
outlined by APB No. 18,  The Equity Method of Accounting
for Investments in Common Stock.  The equity method requires
that the Company recognize its share of the net earnings of
Craft Brands by increasing its investment in Craft Brands in the
Company s balance sheet and recognizing income from equity
investment in the Company s statement of operations. A cash
distribution or the Company s share of a net loss reported
by Craft Brands is reflected as a decrease in investment in
Craft Brands in the Company s balance sheet. The Company
does not control the amount or timing of cash distributions by
Craft Brands. The Company recognized $2,392,000 and $1,123,000
of undistributed earnings related to its investment in Craft
Brands for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. The Company received cash distributions of
$2,769,000 and $903,000, representing its share of the net cash
flow of Craft Brands for the year ended December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively. The Company s share of the earnings
of Craft Brands contributed a significant portion of income to
the Company s results of operations. Separate financial
statements for Craft Brands are filed with this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  in
Part IV., Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules , in accordance with Rule 3-09 of
Regulation  S-X. 
The Company will periodically review its investment in Craft
Brands to insure that it complies with the guidelines prescribed
by FIN No. 46R.

Revenue Recognition.  The Company recognizes revenue from
product sales, net of excise taxes, discounts and certain fees
the Company must pay in connection with sales to A-B, when the
products are shipped to customers. Although title and risk of
loss do not transfer until delivery of the Company s
products to A-B or the A-B distributor, the Company recognizes
revenue upon shipment rather than when title passes because the
time between shipment and delivery is short and product damage
claims and returns are immaterial. The Company recognizes
revenue on retail sales at the time of sale. The Company
recognizes revenue from events at the time of the event.

46

Table of Contents   

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,
 Inventory Costs   an Amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4.  SFAS No. 151 requires idle
facility expenses, abnormal freight, handling costs, and wasted
material (spoilage) to be recognized as current-period
charges. In addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that
allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of
conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production
facilities. SFAS No. 151 will be effective for
inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after
June  15, 2005. The adoption of this
SFAS No. 151 will not have a material effect on the
Company s financial condition or results of operation.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,
 Share-Based Payment , which revises SFAS No. 123
and supersedes APB No. 25. SFAS No. 123R requires
all share-based payments to employees be recognized as expenses
in the statement of operations based on their fair values and
vesting periods. SFAS No. 123R is effective for fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2005. SFAS No. 123R
permits public companies to adopt its requirements using one of
two methods. The first adoption method is a  modified
prospective  method in which compensation cost is
recognized beginning with the effective date (i) based on
the requirements of SFAS No. 123R for all share-based
payments granted after the effective date and (ii) based on
the requirements of SFAS No. 123 for all awards
granted to employees prior to the effective date of
SFAS No. 123R that remain unvested on the effective
date. The second adoption method is a  modified
retrospective  method, which includes the requirements of
the modified prospective method described above, but also
permits entities to restate, based on the amounts previously
recognized under SFAS No. 123 for purposes of pro
forma disclosures, either (i) all prior periods presented
or (ii) prior interim periods in the year of adoption. The
Company adopted SFAS No. 123R on January 1, 2006
and will utilize the modified prospective method. The impact of
adoption of SFAS No. 123R cannot be predicted at this
time because it will depend on levels of share-based payments
granted in the future. With respect to those stock options
outstanding as of December 31, 2005, however, the Company
does not expect that SFAS No. 123R will have a
material impact on the Company s results of operations
because these stock options were fully vested prior to the
January 1, 2006 adoption of SFAS No. 123R.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,  which is a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting
Changes , and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting Accounting
Changes in Interim Financial Statements.  Among other
changes, SFAS No. 154 requires that a voluntary change
in accounting principle be applied retrospectively such that all
prior period financial statements are presented in accordance
with the new accounting principle, unless impracticable to do
so. SFAS No. 154 also provides that (1) a change
in method of depreciating or amortizing a long-lived
nonfinancial asset be accounted for as a change in estimate
(prospectively) that was effected by a change in accounting
principle, and (2) correction of errors in previously
issued financial statements should be termed a
 restatement . SFAS No. 154 is effective for
accounting changes and correction of errors made in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005. Other than the
restatement of previously issued financial statements to correct
an error as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004,
included in the Annual Report on
Form  10-K,  the
Company is not currently contemplating an accounting change
which would be impacted by SFAS No. 154.

Item 7A.  
     
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
    Risk   

The Company has assessed its vulnerability to certain market
risks, including interest rate risk associated with financial
instruments included in cash and cash equivalents and long-term
debt. Due to the nature of these investments and the
Company s investment policies, the Company believes that
the risk associated with interest rate fluctuations related to
these financial instruments does not pose a material risk.

The Company did not have any derivative financial instruments as
of December 31, 2005.

47

Table of Contents   

Item 8.  
     
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

48

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS 

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors

Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated

Woodinville, Washington

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Redhook Ale
Brewery, Incorporated as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and
the related statements of operations, common stockholders 
equity and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to
have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal
control over financial reporting. Our audit included
consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a
basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion
on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

As described in Note 2 to the financial statements, Redhook
Ale Brewery, Incorporated restated its 2004 financial statements.

Seattle, Washington

March 29, 2006

49

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED 

PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

The Board of Directors

Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying statements of operations,
common stockholders  equity, and cash flows of Redhook Ale
Brewery, Incorporated for the year ended December 31, 2003.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

Since the date of completion of our audit of the accompanying
financial statements as of December 31, 2003 and for the
year then ended, and initial issuance of our report thereon
dated January 23, 2004, which report contained an
explanatory paragraph regarding the Company s ability to
continue as a going concern, the Company, as discussed in
Note 1, has restructured its relationship with
Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated pursuant to an exchange and
recapitalization agreement and entered into a related new
distribution agreement. Therefore, the conditions that raised
substantial doubt about whether the Company will continue as a
going concern no longer exist.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the results of
operations and cash flows of Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated
for the year ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

Seattle, Washington

January 23, 2004,

except for the fourth paragraph of note 1,

as to which the date is July 1, 2004

50

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

BALANCE SHEETS 

See Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements

51

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

See Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements

52

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

See Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements

53

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

See Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements

54

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1.  
     
     Nature of Operations  

Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated (the  Company ) was
formed in 1981 to brew and sell craft beer. The Company produces
its specialty bottled and draft products in its two
Company-owned breweries. The Washington Brewery, located in the
Seattle suburb of Woodinville, Washington, began limited
operations in late 1994 and became fully operational after
additional phases of construction were completed in 1996 and
1997. The Company s New Hampshire Brewery, located in
Portsmouth, New Hampshire, began brewing operations in late 1996
and expanded its operations in the first half of 2003 following
the installation of additional fermentation capacity. Each
brewery also operates a pub on the premises, promoting the
Company s products, offering dining and entertainment
facilities, and selling retail merchandise. Prior to 1999, the
Company also operated a third brewery, located in the Fremont
neighborhood of Seattle, Washington. In 1998, brewing operations
at the Fremont brewery location were curtailed, but the Company
continued to operate its Trolleyman Pub at the Fremont location
as well as house the Company s corporate offices. In
September 2002, the Company closed the Trolleyman Pub and moved
its corporate offices to the Washington Brewery location.

Since 1997, the Company s products have been distributed in
the United States in 48 states. Prior to establishing a
distribution relationship with Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated
( A-B ) in 1994, the Company distributed its products
regionally through distributors in eight western states:
Washington, California (northern), Oregon, Idaho, Montana,
Wyoming, Colorado and Alaska. In October 1994, the Company
entered into a distribution alliance ( Distribution
Alliance  or the  Alliance ) with A-B, consisting
of a national distribution agreement and an investment by A-B in
the Company (the  A-B Investment Agreement ). The
Alliance gave the Company access to A-B s national
distribution network to distribute its products while existing
wholesalers, many of which were part of the A-B distribution
network, continued to distribute the Company s products
outside of the Distribution Alliance. Pursuant to the A-B
Investment Agreement, A-B invested approximately
$30 million to purchase 1,289,872 shares of the
Company s convertible redeemable Series B Preferred
Stock (the  Series B Preferred Stock ) and
953,470 shares of the Company s common stock
( Common Stock ), including 716,714 shares issued
concurrent with the Company s initial public offering.

In August 1995, the Company completed the sale of
2,193,492 shares of Common Stock through an initial public
offering in addition to the 716,714 common shares purchased by
A-B. The net proceeds of the offerings totaled approximately
$46 million.

On July 1, 2004, the Company completed a restructuring of
its ongoing relationship with A-B by executing two new
agreements: an exchange and recapitalization agreement and a
distribution agreement. The terms of an exchange and
recapitalization agreement provided that the Company issue
1,808,243 shares of Common Stock to A-B in exchange for
1,289,872 shares of Series B Preferred Stock held by
A-B. The Series B Preferred Stock, reflected on the
Company s balance sheet at approximately
$16.3 million, was cancelled. In connection with the
exchange, the Company also paid $2.0 million to A-B in
November 2004. The terms of the new distribution agreement with
A-B (the  A-B Distribution Agreement ) provided for
the Company to continue to distribute its product in the midwest
and eastern United States through A-B s national
distribution network by selling its product to A-B. The new A-B
Distribution Agreement has a term that expires on
December 31, 2014, subject to automatic renewal for an
additional ten-year period unless A-B provides written notice of
non-renewal to the Company on or prior to June 30, 2014.
The A-B Distribution Agreement is subject to early termination,
by either party, upon the occurrence of certain events.

On July 1, 2004, the Company also entered into definitive
agreements with Widmer Brothers Brewing Company
( Widmer ) with respect to the operation of a joint
venture, Craft Brands Alliance LLC ( Craft Brands ).
Pursuant to these agreements, the Company and Widmer manufacture
and sell their product to Craft Brands at a price substantially
below wholesale pricing levels; Craft Brands, in turn,
advertises, markets,

55

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

sells and distributes the Company s and Widmer s
products to wholesale outlets in the western United States
through a distribution agreement between Craft Brands and A-B.

2.  
     
     Restatement of Financial Statements  

The Company has restated its previously reported financial
statements to correct an error as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The Company inadvertently overstated its
net operating tax loss carryforwards ( NOLs ) with the
state of New Hampshire by recording NOLs in excess of limits
prescribed by state law. This error resulted in an
understatement of the Company s income tax provision for
the quarter and year ended December 31, 2004 and an
overstatement of the Company s deferred tax asset, which is
netted against the Company s deferred income tax liability
on the Company s balance sheet. The $301,000 restatement
adjustment affected the following items in the Company s
financial statements as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2004:

3.  
     
     Significant Accounting Policies  

Cash and Cash Equivalents  

The Company considers all highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less to be cash
equivalents. The Company maintains cash and cash equivalent
balances with financial institutions that exceed federally
insured limits. The carrying amount of cash equivalents
approximates fair value because of the short-term maturity of
these instruments.

Accounts Receivable  

Accounts receivable is comprised of trade receivables due from
wholesalers and A-B for beer and promotional product sales.
Because of state liquor laws and each wholesaler s
agreement with A-B, the Company does not have collectibility
issues related to the sale of its beer products. Accordingly,
the Company does not regularly provide an allowance for doubtful
accounts for beer sales. The Company has provided an allowance
for promotional merchandise that has been invoiced to the
wholesaler. Accounts receivable on the Company s balance
sheets included an allowance for doubtful accounts of $8,000 and
$37,000 as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

56

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Inventories  

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
determined using the
 first-in,  first-out
method. The Company regularly reviews its inventories for the
presence of obsolete product attributed to age, seasonality and
quality. Inventories that are considered obsolete are written
off or adjusted to carrying value. Inventories on the
Company s balance sheets as of December 31, 2005 and
2004 do not include obsolete inventories requiring reserves.

Fixed Assets  

Fixed assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation
and accumulated amortization. The cost of repairs and
maintenance are expensed when incurred, while expenditures for
improvements that extend the useful life of an asset are
capitalized. When assets are retired or sold, the asset cost and
related accumulated depreciation or accumulated amortization are
eliminated with any remaining gain or loss reflected in the
statement of operations. Depreciation and amortization of fixed
assets is provided on the straight-line method over the
following estimated useful lives:

Investment in Craft Brands Alliance LLC  

The Company has assessed its investment in Craft Brands pursuant
to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
( FASB ) Interpretation No. 46 Revised,
 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities   an
Interpretation of ARB No. 51
 ( FIN No. 46R ). FIN No. 46R
clarifies the application of consolidation accounting for
certain entities that do not have sufficient equity at risk for
the entity to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support from other parties or in which
equity investors do not have the characteristics of a
controlling financial interest; these entities are referred to
as variable interest entities. Variable interest entities within
the scope of FIN No. 46R are required to be
consolidated by their primary beneficiary. The primary
beneficiary of a variable interest entity is determined to be
the party that absorbs a majority of the entity s expected
losses, receives a majority of its expected returns, or both.
FIN No. 46R also requires disclosure of significant
variable interests in variable interest entities for which a
company is not the primary beneficiary. The Company has
concluded that its investment in Craft Brands meets the
definition of a variable interest entity but that the Company is
not the primary beneficiary. In accordance with
FIN No. 46R, the Company has not consolidated the
financial statements of Craft Brands with the financial
statements of the Company, but instead accounted for its
investment in Craft Brands under the equity method, as outlined
by Accounting Principle Board Opinion ( APB )
No. 18,  The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments
in Common Stock . The equity method requires that the Company
recognize its share of the net earnings of Craft Brands by
increasing its investment in Craft Brands in the Company s
balance sheet and recognizing income from equity investment in
the Company s statement of operations. A cash distribution
or the Company s share of a net loss reported by Craft
Brands is reflected as a decrease in investment in Craft Brands
in the Company s balance sheet. The Company does not
control the amount or timing of cash distributions by Craft
Brands. The Company periodically reviews its investment in Craft
Brands to insure that it complies with the guidelines prescribed
by FIN No. 46R.

57

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Long-Lived Assets  

The Company evaluates potential impairment of long-lived assets
in accordance with FASB Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard ( SFAS ) No. 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets .
SFAS No. 144 establishes procedures for review of
recoverability and measurement of impairment, if necessary, of
long-lived assets, goodwill and certain identifiable
intangibles. When facts and circumstances indicate that the
carrying values of long-lived assets may be impaired, an
evaluation of recoverability is performed by comparing the
carrying value of the assets to projected future undiscounted
cash flows in addition to other quantitative and qualitative
analyses. Upon indication that the carrying value of such assets
may not be recoverable, the Company recognizes an impairment
loss by a charge against current operations. Fixed assets are
grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable
cash flows when assessing impairment. During 2005, the Company
performed an analysis of its brewery assets to determine if an
impairment might exist. The Company s estimate of future
undiscounted cash flows indicated that such carrying values were
expected to be recovered.

Revenue Recognition  

The Company recognizes revenue from product sales, net of excise
taxes, discounts and certain fees the Company must pay in
connection with sales to A-B, when the products are shipped to
customers. Although title and risk of loss do not transfer until
delivery of the Company s products to A-B, or the A-B
distributor, the Company recognizes revenue upon shipment rather
than when title passes because the time between shipment and
delivery is short and product damage claims and returns are
immaterial. The Company recognizes revenue on retail sales at
the time of sale. The Company recognizes revenue from events at
the time of the event.

Shipping and Handling Costs  

Costs incurred for the shipping of finished goods are included
in cost of sales in the Company s statements of operations.

Income Taxes  

The Company records federal and state income taxes in accordance
with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes,
whereby deferred taxes are provided for the temporary
differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax
basis of the Company s assets and liabilities. These
deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured under the
provisions of the currently enacted tax laws. The Company will
establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not
that these items will either expire before the Company is able
to realize their benefits or that future deductibility is
uncertain.

Advertising Expenses  

Advertising costs, comprised of radio, print and outdoor
advertising, sponsorships and printed product information, as
well as costs to produce these media, are expensed as incurred.
For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
advertising expenses totaling $533,000, $728,000 and $1,706,000,
respectively, are reflected as selling, general and
administrative expenses in the Company s statements of
operation.

Segment Information  

The Company operates in one principal business segment as a
manufacturer of beer and ales across domestic markets. The
Company believes that its pub operations and brewery operations,
whether considered individually or in combination, do not
constitute a separate segment under SFAS No. 131,
 Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information . The Company believes that its two brewery
operations

58

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

are functionally and financially similar. The Company operates
its two pubs as an extension of its marketing of the
Company s products and views their primary function to be
promotion of the Company s products.

Stock-Based Compensation  

The Company accounts for its employee stock-based compensation
plans using the intrinsic value method, as prescribed by APB
No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees .
Under APB No. 25, because the Company s employee stock
options are granted at an exercise price equal to the fair
market value of the underlying Common Stock on the date of the
grant, no compensation expense is recognized. As permitted, the
Company has elected to adopt the disclosure only provisions of
SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation , as amended by SFAS No. 148.

The following table illustrates the effect on net income (loss)
and earnings (loss) per share for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 had compensation cost for
the Company s stock options been recognized based upon the
estimated fair value on the grant date under the fair value
methodology:

The fair value of options granted (which is amortized to expense
over the option vesting period in determining the pro forma
impact) is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted
average assumptions:

The weighted average estimated fair value of options granted
during the years ended December 31, is as follows:

59

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

In accordance with SFAS No. 148, the weighted average
estimated fair value of stock options granted is required to be
based on a theoretical statistical model using the preceding
Black-Scholes assumptions. In actuality, because Company stock
options do not trade on a secondary exchange, employees can
receive no value nor derive any benefit from holding stock
options under these plans without an increase, above the grant
price, in the market price of the Company s stock. Such an
increase in stock price would benefit all stockholders
commensurately. Refer to the table of options currently
outstanding in Note 8 for the weighted average exercise
price for options granted during 2005, 2004 and 2003.

On November 29, 2005, the board of directors of the Company
approved an acceleration of vesting of all of the Company s
unvested stock options (the  Acceleration ). The
Acceleration was effective for stock options outstanding as of
December 30, 2005. These options were granted under the
Company s 1992 Stock Incentive Plan and 2002 Stock Option
Plan. As a result of the Acceleration, options to acquire
approximately 136,000 shares of the Company s Common
Stock, or 16% of total outstanding options, became exercisable
on December 30, 2005. Of the approximately
136,000 shares subject to the Acceleration, options to
acquire approximately 70,000 shares of the Company s
Common Stock at an exercise price of $1.865 would have otherwise
fully vested in August 2006; and options to acquire
approximately 66,000 shares of the Company s Common
Stock at an exercise price of $2.019 would have otherwise vested
in August 2006 and August 2007. As a result of the Acceleration,
the Company s 2005 stock-based employee compensation
expense determined under the fair value based method disclosed
in the table above was higher than it would have been had the
Acceleration not occurred. The Acceleration did not have a
material impact on 2005 results of operations.

As a result of the Acceleration, the Company expects to reduce
its exposure in 2006 and 2007 to the effects of the
SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based Payment .
SFAS No. 123R requires all share-based payments to
employees be recognized as expenses in the statement of
operations based on their fair values and vesting periods.
SFAS No. 123R is effective for fiscal years beginning
after June 15, 2005. The Company estimates that the
Acceleration resulted in a reduction in stock-based compensation
expense of approximately $75,000 in 2006 and approximately
$25,000 in 2007, as well as a reduction in future stock option
administrative costs associated with complying with
SFAS No. 123R.

Earnings (Loss) per Share  

The Company follows SFAS No. 128,  Earnings per
Share . Basic earnings (loss) per share is calculated using
the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding. The calculation of adjusted weighted average shares
outstanding for purposes of computing diluted earnings (loss)
per share includes the dilutive effect of all outstanding
convertible redeemable preferred stock and outstanding stock
options for the periods when the Company reports net income. The
calculation uses the treasury stock method and the  as if
converted  method in determining the resulting incremental
average equivalent shares outstanding as applicable.

Use of Estimates  

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results may differ from those
estimates.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

The Company s balance sheets include the following
financial instruments: cash and cash equivalents, accounts
receivable, inventory, accounts payable, accrued expenses,
capital lease obligations and long-term debt. The Company
believes the carrying amounts of current assets and liabilities
and indebtedness in the balance sheets approximate the fair
value.

60

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Recently Issued Accounting Standards  

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,
 Inventory Costs   an Amendment of ARB
No. 43 , Chapter 4. SFAS No. 151 requires
idle facility expenses, abnormal freight, handling costs, and
wasted material (spoilage) to be recognized as
current-period charges. In addition, SFAS No. 151
requires that the allocation of fixed production overheads to
the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the
production facilities. SFAS No. 151 is effective for
inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 will
not have a material impact on the Company s financial
condition or results of operation.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,
 Share-Based Payment , which revises SFAS No. 123
and supersedes APB No. 25. SFAS No. 123R requires
all share-based payments to employees be recognized as expenses
in the statement of operations based on their fair values and
vesting periods. SFAS No. 123R is effective for fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2005.
SFAS No. 123R permits public companies to adopt its
requirements using one of two methods. The first adoption method
is a  modified prospective  method in which
compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective
date (i) based on the requirements of
SFAS No. 123R for all share-based payments granted
after the effective date and (ii) based on the requirements
of SFAS No. 123 for all awards granted to employees
prior to the effective date of SFAS No. 123R that
remain unvested on the effective date. The second adoption
method is a  modified retrospective  method, which
includes the requirements of the modified prospective method
described above, but also permits entities to restate, based on
the amounts previously recognized under SFAS No. 123
for purposes of pro forma disclosures, either (i) all prior
periods presented or (ii) prior interim periods in the year
of adoption. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 123R on
January 1, 2006 and will utilize the modified prospective
method. The impact of adoption of SFAS No. 123R cannot
be predicted at this time because it will depend on levels of
share-based payments granted in the future. With respect to
those stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2005,
however, the Company does not expect that
SFAS No. 123R will have a material impact on the
Company s results of operations because these stock options
were fully vested prior to the January 1, 2006 adoption of
SFAS No. 123R.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections , which is a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting
Changes ,and SFAS No. 3,  Reporting Accounting
Changes in Interim Financial Statements . Among other
changes, SFAS No. 154 requires that a voluntary change
in accounting principle be applied retrospectively such that all
prior period financial statements are presented in accordance
with the new accounting principle, unless impracticable to do
so. SFAS No. 154 also provides that (1) a change
in method of depreciating or amortizing a long-lived
nonfinancial asset be accounted for as a change in estimate
(prospectively) that was effected by a change in accounting
principle, and (2) correction of errors in previously
issued financial statements should be termed a
 restatement . SFAS No. 154 is effective for
accounting changes and correction of errors made in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005. Other than the
restatement of previously issued financial statements to correct
an error as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004,
included in the Annual Report on
Form  10-K,  the
Company is not currently contemplating an accounting change
which would be impacted by SFAS No. 154.

61

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

4.  
     
     Inventories  

Inventories consist of the following:

Work in process is beer held in fermentation tanks prior to the
filtration and packaging process.

5.  
     
     Fixed Assets  

Fixed assets consist of the following:

As of December 31, 2005, brewery equipment included
property acquired under a capital lease with a cost of $41,000
and accumulated amortization of $6,000. The Company s
statement of operations for the year ended December 31,
2005 includes $6,000 in amortization expense related to this
leased property.

6.  
     
     Craft Brands Alliance LLC  

On July 1, 2004, the Company entered into agreements with
Widmer with respect to the operation of a joint venture sales
and marketing entity, Craft Brands. Pursuant to these
agreements, the Company manufactures and sells its product to
Craft Brands at a price substantially below wholesale pricing
levels; Craft Brands, in turn, advertises, markets, sells and
distributes the product to wholesale outlets in the western
United States pursuant to a distribution agreement between Craft
Brands and A-B.

The Company and Widmer have entered into a restated operating
agreement with Craft Brands (the  Operating
Agreement ) that governs the operations of Craft Brands and
the obligations of its members, including capital contributions,
loans and allocation of profits and losses.

The Operating Agreement requires the Company to make certain
capital contributions to support the operations of Craft Brands.
Contemporaneous with the execution of the Operating Agreement,
the Company made a 2004 sales and marketing capital contribution
in the amount of $250,000. The Operating Agreement

62

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

designated this sales and marketing capital contribution to be
used by Craft Brands for expenses related to the marketing,
advertising, and promotion of the Company s products
( Special Marketing Expense ). The Operating Agreement
also requires an additional sales and marketing contribution in
2008 if the volume of sales of Redhook products in 2007 in the
Craft Brands territory is less than 92% of the volume of sales
of Redhook products in 2003 in the Craft Brands territory. The
2008 contribution, if one is required, cannot exceed $750,000
and will be required to be paid by the Company in no more than
three equal installments made on or before February 1,
2008, April 1, 2008, and July 1, 2008. Widmer has an
identical obligation under the Operating Agreement with respect
to the 2008 sales and marketing capital contribution and sales
of its product. The Operating Agreement also obligates the
Company and Widmer to make other additional capital
contributions only upon the request and consent of the Craft
Brands  board of directors.

The Operating Agreement also requires the Company and Widmer to
make loans to Craft Brands to assist Craft Brands in conducting
its operations and meeting its obligations. To the extent cash
flow from operations and borrowings from financial institutions
is not sufficient for Craft Brands to meet its obligations, the
Company and Widmer are obligated to lend to Craft Brands the
funds the president of Craft Brands deems necessary to meet such
obligations. Contemporaneous with the execution of the Operating
Agreement, the Company made a member loan of $150,000. Craft
Brands repaid the entire loan and accrued interest in December
2004.

The Operating Agreement additionally addresses the allocation of
profits and losses of Craft Brands. After giving effect to the
allocation of the Special Marketing Expense, which is allocated
100% to the Company up to the 2004 $250,000 sales and marketing
capital contribution, and after giving effect to income
attributable to the shipments of the Kona brand, which is shared
differently between the Company and Widmer through 2006, the
remaining profits and losses of Craft Brands are allocated
between the Company and Widmer based on the cash flow
percentages of 42% and 58%, respectively. Net cash flow, if any,
will generally be distributed monthly to the Company and Widmer
based upon the cash flow percentages. No distribution will be
made to the Company or Widmer unless, after the distribution is
made, the assets of Craft Brands will be in excess of its
liabilities, with the exception of liabilities to members, and
Craft Brands will be able to pay its debts as they become due in
the ordinary course of business.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, shipments of the
Company s products to Craft Brands represented 56% of total
Company shipments, or 126,000 barrels. For the six months
ended December 31, 2004, shipments of the Company s
products to Craft Brands represented 61% of total Company
shipments, or 63,600 barrels.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company s
share of Craft Brands net income totaled $2,392,000. This share
of Craft Brands  profit was net of $135,000 of the Special
Marketing Expense that had been incurred by Craft Brands during
the same period and was fully allocated to the Company. As of
December 31, 2005, the entire $250,000 2004 sales and
marketing capital contribution made by the Company had been used
by Craft Brands for designated Special Marketing Expenses and
netted against Craft Brands  profits allocated to the
Company. For the six months ended December 31, 2004, the
Company s share of Craft Brands  net income totaled
$1,123,000. This share of Craft Brands  profit was net of
$115,000 of the Special Marketing Expense that had been incurred
by Craft Brands during the same period and was fully allocated
to the Company.

In conjunction with the sale of Redhook product to Craft Brands,
the Company s balance sheets as of December 31, 2005
and 2004 reflect a trade receivable due from Craft Brands of
$698,000 and $399,000, respectively, and a trade payable due to
Craft Brands of $368,000 and $431,000, respectively. In January
2005, the Company received an additional $277,000 in cash
distributions, reflected on the Company s balance sheet as
of December 31, 2004 as a receivable from Craft Brands.

63

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

During the 2005 and 2004, the Company received cash
distributions of $2,769,000 and $903,000, respectively,
representing its share of the net cash flow of Craft Brands. As
of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company s
investment in Craft Brands totaled $93,000 and $193,000,
respectively.

Separate financial statements for Craft Brands are filed with
the Company s
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2005, Part IV., in
Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules ,
in accordance with Rule 3-09 of
Regulation  S-X. 

During the formation of Craft Brands, both the Company and
Widmer incurred certain
 start-up  expenses.
During the period March 15, 2004 through June 30,
2004, while the companies sought the regulatory approval
required for Craft Brands to become fully operational, the
Company and Widmer agreed to share certain sales-related costs,
primarily salaries and overhead. The Company s share of
those costs totaled $535,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2004 and are reflected in the Company s
statement of operations as selling, general and administrative
expenses.

7.  
     
     Debt and Capital Lease Obligations  

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations consist of the
following:

Term Loan  

The Company has a credit agreement with a bank under which a
term loan (the  Term Loan ) is provided. The Term
Loan, which originated in June 1997 and was amended in June
2001, matures on June 5, 2007 and has a 20 year
amortization schedule.

The Term Loan is secured by substantially all of the
Company s assets. Since June 5, 2002, interest on the
Term Loan has accrued at London Inter Bank Offered Rate
( LIBOR ) plus 1.75%. The Company has the option to
fix the applicable interest rate for up to twelve months by
selecting LIBOR for one- to twelve- month periods as a base. The
termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement for any reason
would constitute an event of default under the credit agreement
and the bank may declare the entire outstanding loan balance
immediately due and payable.

The terms of the credit agreement require the Company to meet
certain financial covenants: capital ratio must be less than
1.25:1; working capital must be greater than $1,900,000; and the
fixed charge coverage ratio must be greater than 1.15:1. The
Company was in compliance with all financial covenants for the
quarter ended December 31, 2005 and expects that it will
remain in compliance with its debt covenants for the next twelve
months. In December 2001, March 2003, February 2004 and October
2004, the credit agreement was amended to modify several
financial covenants. In January 2006, the credit agreement was
amended to eliminate the tangible net worth covenant as of the
year ended December 31, 2005. These modifications to the

64

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

financial covenants have reduced the likelihood that a violation
of the covenants by the Company will occur. However, if the
Company were to report a significant net loss for one or more
quarters within a time period covered by the financial
covenants, one or more of the covenants would be negatively
impacted and could cause a violation. Failure to meet the
covenants required by the credit agreement is an event of
default and, at its option, the bank could deny a request for a
waiver and declare the entire outstanding loan balance
immediately due and payable. In such a case, the Company would
seek to refinance the loan with one or more banks, potentially
at less desirable terms. However, there can be no guarantee that
additional financing would be available at commercially
reasonable terms, if at all.

The Company made interest payments on the Term Loan totaling
$263,000, $185,000, and $194,000, for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Annual principal payments required on the Term Loan as of
December 31, 2005 are as follows:

Capital Leases Obligations  

The Company has acquired small production equipment under
various capital leases. As of December 31, 2005, future
minimum lease payments under capital leases are as follows:

Interest on each capital lease is calculated at the
Company s incremental borrowing rate at the inception of
each lease.

8.  
     
     Common Stockholders  Equity  

Issuance of Common Stock  

In August 1995, the Company completed the sale of
2,193,492 shares of Common Stock through an initial public
offering and 716,714 common shares in a concurrent private
placement to A-B (collectively, the  Offerings ) at a
price of $17.00 per share. The net proceeds of the
Offerings totaled approximately $46 million. All of the
1,242,857 shares of Series A convertible preferred
stock automatically converted to an equal number of common
shares upon closing of the Offerings.

On July 1, 2004, the Company issued 1,808,243 shares
of Common Stock to A-B in exchange for 1,289,872 shares of
Series B Preferred Stock held by A-B. The Series B
Preferred Stock was cancelled.
 A-B  was also granted
certain contractual registration rights with respect to the
shares of Common Stock held by
 A-B.  In connection with
the exchange, the Company paid $2,000,000 to A-B in November
2004. The impact of this exchange and recapitalization on the
balance sheet as of December 31, 2004 was to reduce
convertible preferred stock by $16,300,000, increase common
stock by $9,000, increase additional paid-in capital by

65

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

$14,200,000 and reduce cash by $2,000,000. As of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, A-B held 33.6% and 33.7% of the
Company s outstanding shares of Common Stock, respectively.

In conjunction with the exercise of stock options granted under
the Company s stock option plans, the Company issued
34,410 shares of the Company s Common Stock totaling
$66,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 and
153,650 shares of the Company s Common Stock totaling
$267,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004.

Repurchase of Common Stock  

From May 2000 through May 2003, the Company repurchased its
Common Stock in conjunction with a repurchase plan authorized by
the board of directors. The plan allowed for the repurchase of
1.5 million outstanding shares of Common Stock for a total
maximum repurchase of $2,750,000. In May 2003, at which time a
total of 1,463,100 shares of Common Stock had been
purchased in the open market for an aggregate expenditure of
$2,750,000, the Company ended the repurchase plan. During 2003,
101,400 shares of Common Stock were purchased for $231,000.
There were no stock repurchases in 2004 and 2005.

Stock Option Plans  

In 1993, the Company s shareholders approved the 1992 Stock
Incentive Plan (the  1992 Plan ) and the Directors
Stock Option Plan (the  Directors Plan ). The plans,
amended in May 1996, provided for 1,270,000 and 170,000,
respectively, shares of Common Stock for option grants. Employee
options were generally designated to vest over a five-year
period while director options became exercisable six months
after the grant date. Vested options are generally exercisable
for ten years from the date of grant. Although the expiration of
the 1992 Plan and the Directors Plan in October 2002 prevents
any further option grants under these plans, the provisions of
these plans remain in effect until all options terminate or are
exercised. As of December 31, 2002, there were no options
available for future grant under the 1992 Plan or Directors Plan.

In 2002, the Company s shareholders approved the 2002 Stock
Option Plan (the  2002 Plan ). The maximum number of
shares of Common Stock for which options may be granted during
the term of the 2002 Plan is 346,000. The compensation committee
of the board of directors administers the 2002 Plan, determining
to whom options are to be granted, the number of shares of
Common Stock for which the options are exercisable, the purchase
prices of such shares, and all other terms and conditions.
Options granted to employees of the Company in 2002 under the
2002 Plan were designated to vest over a five-year period, and
options granted to the Company s directors in 2002, 2003,
2004 and 2005 under the 2002 Plan became exercisable six months
after the grant date. Options were granted at an exercise price
equal to fair market value of the underlying Common Stock on the
grant date and terminate on the tenth anniversary of the grant
date.

On November 29, 2005, the board of directors approved an
acceleration of vesting of all of the Company s unvested
stock options. The Acceleration was effective for stock options
outstanding as of December 30, 2005. These options were
granted under the 1992 Plan and 2002 Plan. As a result of the
Acceleration, options to acquire approximately
136,000 shares of the Company s common stock, or 16%
of total outstanding options, became exercisable on
December 30, 2005. Of the approximately 136,000 shares
subject to the Acceleration, options to acquire approximately
70,000 shares of the Company s Common Stock at an
exercise price of $1.865 would have otherwise fully vested in
August 2006; and options to acquire approximately
66,000 shares of the Company s Common Stock at an
exercise price of $2.019 would have otherwise vested in August
2006 and August 2007. The Acceleration did not have a material
impact on 2005 results of operations and the Company does not
expect that the Acceleration will have a material impact on
future periods.

66

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Presented below is a summary of stock option plans 
activity for the years shown:

The following table summarizes information for options currently
outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2005:

Under the terms of the Company s incentive stock option
plans, employees and directors may be granted options to
purchase the Company s Common Stock at the market price on
the date the option is granted. At December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003, a total of 109,559, 87,109 and 62,269 options,
respectively, were available for future grants under the 2002
plan.

The Company has reserved approximately 956,000 shares of
Common Stock for future issuance related to potential stock
option exercises.

67

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Shareholder Rights Agreement  

The Company s shareholder rights agreement, which was
adopted by the board of directors in September 1995 and
subsequently amended in May 1999 and May 2004, expired on
September 22, 2005.

9.  
     
     Earnings (Loss) Per Share  

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and
diluted earnings (loss) per common share:

The outstanding stock options have been excluded from the
calculation of diluted loss per share for the year ended
December 31, 2005 because their effect is antidilutive. The
convertible redeemable preferred stock and outstanding stock
options have been excluded from the calculation of diluted loss
per share for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003
because their effect is antidilutive.

The Company has restated its previously reported financial
statements to correct an error as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The Company inadvertently overstated its
net operating tax loss carryforwards with the state of New
Hampshire by recording NOLs in excess of limits prescribed by
state law. This error resulted in an understatement of the
Company s income tax provision for the quarter and year
ended December 31, 2004 and an overstatement of the
Company s deferred tax asset, which is netted against the
Company s deferred income tax liability on the
Company s balance sheet.

The components of income tax expense (benefit) are as follows:

Current tax expense is attributable to state taxes. The Company
paid income, equity and franchise taxes totaling $42,000,
$30,000 and $29,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

68

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

A reconciliation between the U.S. federal statutory tax
rate and the Company s effective tax rate is presented
below:

Significant components of the Company s deferred tax
liabilities and assets are as follows:

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had federal NOLs of
$30.2 million, or $10.3 million tax-effected; federal
alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $135,000; and
state NOL carryforwards of $500,000 tax-effected. The federal
NOLs expire from 2012 through 2024; the alternative minimum tax
credit can be utilized to offset regular tax liabilities in
future years and has no expiration date; and the state NOLs
expire from 2006 through 2019.

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company s
valuation allowance was $1,656,000 and $1,154,000, respectively.
The Company established the valuation allowance in 2002 and
increased it further in 2003, 2004 and 2005 to cover certain
federal and state NOLs that may expire before the Company is
able to utilize the tax benefit. The net increase in the
valuation allowance during the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004 was $502,000 and $416,000, respectively. In
assessing the realizability of the deferred tax assets, the
Company considered whether it is more likely than not that some
portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent
upon the existence of, or generation of, taxable income during
the periods in which those temporary differences become
deductible. The Company considered the scheduled reversal of
deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and
other factors in making this assessment. The Company s
estimates of future taxable income take into consideration,
among other items, estimates of future tax deductions related to
depreciation. Based upon the available evidence, the Company
does not believe it is more likely than not that all of the
deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent that the
Company continues to be unable to generate adequate taxable
income in future periods, the

69

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Company will not be able to recognize additional tax benefits
and may be required to record a greater valuation allowance
covering potentially expiring NOLs.

The Company s noncancelable operating lease arrangements
include a lease of the land on which the New Hampshire Brewery
sits as well as leases of various small equipment. The land
lease began in May 1995 and runs through April 2047. The lease
arrangement may be extended at the Company s option for two
additional seven-year terms. Monthly lease payments did not
commence until completion of construction of the New Hampshire
Brewery facility in July 1996. The lease agreement also includes
an escalation clause, allowing for a 5% increase in the monthly
lease payment at the end of every five-year period. The first
five-year period expired in May 2005 and the lessor increased
the monthly lease payment by the 5% as provided for in the
agreement. Escalating rent expense is recorded on a
straight-line basis over the term of the lease. The land lease
also provides the Company with the first right of refusal to
purchase the property should the lessor receive an offer to sell
the property to a third party. The Company s leases of
various equipment generally have a term of five years.

Minimum aggregate future lease payments under noncancelable
operating leases as of December 31, 2005 are as follows:

Rent expense under all operating leases, including short-term
rentals as well as cancelable and noncancelable operating
leases, totaled $320,000, $315,000 and $247,000 for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The Company periodically enters into commitments to purchase
natural gas and certain raw materials in the normal course of
business. Furthermore, the Company has entered into purchase
commitments to ensure it has the necessary supply of malt and
hops to meet future production requirements. Malt and hop
commitments are for crop years through 2008. The Company
believes that malt and hop commitments in excess of future
requirements, if any, will not materially affect its financial
condition or results of operations.

Aggregate payments under unrecorded, unconditional purchase
commitments as of December 31, 2005 are as follows:

70

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The Company leases corporate office space to an unrelated party.
The lease agreement expires in 2009. The Company recognized
rental income for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003 of $167,000, $162,000 and $169,000, respectively.
Future minimum lease rentals under the agreement total $740,000.

12.  
     
     Employee Benefit Plan  

The Company maintains a 401(k) savings plan for employees
age 21 years or older with at least six months of
service. Employee contributions may not exceed a specific dollar
amount determined by law and rules of the Internal Revenue
Service. The Company matches 100% of each dollar contributed by
a participant employed by the Company on the last day of the
calendar year who has worked 1,000 or more hours with a maximum
matching contribution of 4% of a participant s eligible
compensation. The Company s contributions to the plan vest
incrementally over five years of service by the employee. The
Company s contributions to the plan totaled $167,000,
$205,000 and $231,000 for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

13.  
     
     Financial Instruments, Major Customers, and Related-Party
    Transactions  

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to
credit risk consist principally of trade receivables and
interest-bearing deposits. While wholesale distributors, A-B and
Craft Brands account for substantially all accounts receivable,
this concentration risk is limited due to the number of
distributors, their geographic dispersion, and state laws
regulating the financial affairs of distributors of alcoholic
beverages. The Company s interest-bearing deposits are
placed with major financial institutions.

The Company s most significant wholesaler, K&L
Distributors, Inc. ( K ), is responsible for
distribution of the Company s products in most of King
County, Washington, which includes Seattle. K&L accounted
for approximately 12%, 13% and 13% of total sales volume in
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Shipments of the
Company s product to K&L during 2005 and the last six
months of 2004 were made through Craft Brands. Due to state
liquor regulations, the Company sells its product in Washington
state directly to third-party beer distributors and returns a
portion of the revenue to Craft Brands based upon a
contractually determined formula.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, sales to A-B through
the A-B Distribution Agreement represented 41% of total sales
during the same period, or $14,124,000. For the six months ended
December 31, 2004, sales to A-B through the A-B
Distribution Agreement represented 40% of total sales during the
same period, or $6,275,000. For the six months ended
June 30, 2004, sales to A-B through the Distribution
Alliance represented 67% of total sales during the same period,
or $14,041,000. In 2003, sales to A-B through the Distribution
Alliance represented 65% of total sales, or $27,312,000.

In connection with all sales through the Distribution Alliance
prior to July 1, 2004, the Company paid a Margin fee to
A-B. The Margin did not apply to sales to wholesalers and others
that were part of the A-B distribution network but that were not
part of the Distribution Alliance, including most sales to
Washington state wholesalers, sales to non-A-B wholesalers,
sales by the Company s retail operations, and dock sales.
The July 1, 2004 A-B Distribution Agreement modified the
Margin fee structure such that the Margin per barrel shipped
increased and is paid on all sales through the new A-B
Distribution Agreement. The Margin does not apply to sales to
the Company s retail operations or to dock sales. The
Margin also does not apply to the Company s sales to Craft
Brands because Craft Brands pays a comparable fee on its resale
of the product. The A-B Distribution Agreement also provides
that the Company shall pay an additional fee on shipments that
exceed shipments for the same territory during fiscal 2003 (the
 Additional Margin ). In addition, the Exchange and
Recapitalization Agreement provided that the Margin be
retroactively increased to the rate provided in the A-B
Distribution Agreement for all shipments in June 2004. For the
year ended December 31, 2005, the Margin was paid to A-B on
shipments totaling 85,000 barrels to 472 distribution
points. Because 2005 shipments in the midwest and eastern United
States exceeded 2003 shipments in the same territory, the

71

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Company paid A-B the Additional Margin on 7,000 barrels.
For the six month period ended December 31, 2004, the
Margin was paid to A-B on shipments totaling 38,000 barrels
to 371 distribution points, and the retroactive increase on June
2004 shipments was paid on approximately 20,000 barrels.
For the six months ended June 30, 2004, the Margin was paid
to A-B on shipments totaling 84,000 barrels to 495 Alliance
distribution points. For the year ended December 31, 2003,
the Margin was paid to A-B on shipments totaling
166,000 barrels to 527 Alliance distribution points. The
Margin paid is reflected as a reduction of sales in the
Company s statement of operations.

In connection with all sales through the Distribution Alliance
prior to July 1, 2004 and all sales through the A-B
Distribution Agreement since July 1, 2004, the Company also
paid additional fees to A-B related to administration and
handling. Invoicing costs, staging costs, cooperage handling
charges and inventory manager fees are reflected in cost of
sales in the Company s statement of operations. These fees
collectively totaled approximately $249,000, $406,000 and
$300,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.

The Company purchased certain materials through A-B totaling
$5,942,000, $5,584,000 and $6,750,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

In December 2003, the Company entered into a purchase and sale
agreement with A-B for the purchase of the  Pacific Ridge 
brand, trademark and related intellectual property. In
consideration, the Company agreed to pay A-B a fee for
20 years based upon the shipments of the brand by the
Company. A fee of $83,000 and $80,000 due to A-B is reflected in
the Company s statements of operations for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

In conjunction with the shipment of its products to wholesalers,
the Company collects refundable deposits on its pallets. In
certain circumstances when the pallets are returned to the
Company, A-B may return the deposit to the wholesaler. In May
2005, the Company reimbursed A-B approximately $881,000 for
these pallet deposits.

The Company periodically leases kegs from A-B pursuant to an
October 2001 letter of agreement. A lease and handling fee of
$32,000 and $20,000 is reflected in the Company s
statements of operations for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively.

In connection with the shipment of its draft products to
wholesalers through the A-B Distribution Agreement, the Company
collects refundable deposits on its kegs. Because wholesalers
generally hold an inventory of the Company s kegs at their
warehouse and in retail establishments, A-B assists in
monitoring the inventory of kegs to insure that the wholesaler
can account for all kegs shipped. When a wholesaler cannot
account for some of the Company s kegs for which it is
responsible, the wholesaler pays the Company, for each keg
determined to be lost, a fixed fee and also forfeits the
deposit. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
reduced its brewery equipment by $305,000 collected in lost keg
fees and forfeited deposits.

In certain instances, the Company may ship its product to A-B
wholesaler support centers rather than directly to the
wholesaler. Wholesaler support centers assist the Company by
consolidating small wholesaler orders with orders of other A-B
products prior to shipping to the wholesaler. A wholesaler
support center fee of $32,000 is reflected in the Company s
statement of operations for the year ended December 31,
2005.

In 2005, the Company began using a proprietary A-B production
planning system, customized for the Company s processes.
Fees of $269,000 for the customization, implementation and use
of the system were paid to A-B and reflected in the statement of
operations for the year ended December 31, 2005.

The net amount due from A-B was $163,000 as of December 31,
2005 and the net amount due to A-B was $196,000 as of
December 31, 2004.

72

Table of Contents   

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

In 2003, the Company entered into a licensing agreement with
Widmer to produce and sell the  Widmer Hefeweizen  brand in
states east of the Mississippi River. Brewing of this product is
conducted at the New Hampshire Brewery under the supervision and
assistance of Widmer s brewing staff to insure their
brand s quality and matching taste profile. The term of
this agreement is for five years, with an additional one-year
automatic renewal unless either party elects to terminate the
arrangement. The agreement may be terminated by either party at
any time without cause pursuant to 150 days notice. The
agreement may be terminated for cause by either party under
certain conditions. During the term of this agreement, Redhook
will not brew, advertise, market, or distribute any product that
is labeled or advertised as a  Hefeweizen  or any
similar product in the agreed upon eastern territory. Brewing
and selling of Redhook s Hefe-weizen was discontinued in
conjunction with this agreement. The Company shipped 26,000,
18,000 and 12,000 barrels of  Widmer Hefeweizen
 during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively. A licensing fee of $399,000, $266,000 and
$166,000 due to Widmer is reflected in the Company s
statement of operations for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

In connection with a contract brewing arrangement, the Company
brewed and shipped 8,900 barrels of Widmer draft beer
during the year ended December 31, 2005 and
2,300 barrels during the six months ended December 31,
2004. Pursuant to the supply, distribution and licensing
agreement with Craft Brands, if shipments of the Company s
products in the western United States decrease as compared to
the previous year s shipments, the Company has the right to
brew Widmer products in an amount equal to the lower of
(i) the Company s product shipment decrease or
(ii) the Widmer product shipment increase. In addition, the
Company may, at Widmer s request, brew more beer for Widmer
than the amount obligated by the contract.

14.  
     
     Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  

73

Table of Contents   

Item 9.  
     
      Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

On August 16, 2004, Ernst & Young LLP
( Ernst & Young ) resigned as the independent
registered public accounting firm for the Company. The
resignation followed notification by Ernst & Young on
July 23, 2004 that the firm would resign as the
Company s independent registered public accounting firm
following completion of services related to the review of the
interim financial statements of the Company for the quarter
ended June 30, 2004.

The report of Ernst & Young on the Company s
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003
did not contain an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion
and was not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit
scope, or accounting principles, except that the report for the
year ended December 31, 2003 expressed substantial doubt
regarding the Company s ability to continue as a going
concern if the Company s distribution agreement with
Anheuser-Busch, which was subject to early termination in 2004,
was terminated. The termination of the distribution agreement
would have caused an event of default under the Company s
bank credit agreement and would have required the Company to
redeem the Series B Preferred Stock on December 31,
2004. As reported in the Company s current report on
Form  8-K  filed on
July 2, 2004, the Company and Anheuser-Busch entered into a
new distribution agreement which will expire on
December 31, 2024, subject to the one-time right of
Anheuser-Busch to terminate the distribution agreement on
December 31, 2014.

In connection with the audit of the Company s financial
statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and
in the subsequent interim period from December 31, 2003
through August 16, 2004, there were no disagreements with
Ernst & Young on any matters of accounting principles
or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope
or procedures which, if not resolved to the satisfaction of
Ernst & Young would have caused Ernst & Young
to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in
their report. There were no  reportable events  as
that term is described in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of
Regulation  S-K. 
The Company requested and Ernst & Young furnished a
letter addressed to the Commission stating whether it agreed
with the above statements. A copy of that letter, dated
August 20, 2004, is filed as Exhibit 16.2 to the
Company s
Form  10-K  for the
year ended December 31, 2004.

On September 9, 2004, the Company engaged Moss Adams LLP
( Moss Adams ) as the Company s independent
registered public accounting firm for its fiscal year ended
December 31, 2004. During the two fiscal years ended
December 31, 2003 and the subsequent interim period through
September 9, 2004, the Company had not consulted with Moss
Adams with respect to: (i) the application of accounting
principles to a specified transaction, either completed or
proposed; or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on
the Company s financial statements; or (ii) any matter
that was either the subject of a disagreement (as defined in
Item 304(a)(1)(iv) of
Regulation  S-K)  or
a reportable event (as described in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of
Regulation  S-K). 
The decision to engage Moss Adams was approved by the
Company s audit committee.

Item 9A.  
     
      Controls and Procedures   

The Company has carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness
of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule  13a-15(e)  or
 15d-15(e))  as of the
end of the period covered by this Annual Report on
Form  10-K.  Based
upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures are effective.

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that
are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed
in the reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms and that
such information is accumulated and communicated to management,
including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure. Although the Company has restated
previously reported financial statements to correct an error as
of and for the year ended December 31, 2004, the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded
that the restatement does not indicate a deficiency in the
Company s disclosure controls and procedures. As a result
of the restatement, management considered the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures in place

74

Table of Contents   

with respect to the tax accounting process. Management believes
that key controls were in place and the disclosure controls were
functioning properly as of and for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2004 but, because the circumstances
surrounding the error were unusual and infrequent, the error was
not identified in a timely manner. Management believes that this
error was isolated.

No changes in the Company s internal control over financial
reporting were identified in connection with the evaluation that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company s internal control over financial
reporting. However, management is evaluating the Company s
controls and procedures in relation to the tax accounting
process and considering implementation of additional internal
controls, including increasing the scope of the independent tax
accounting review.

It should be noted that any system of controls, however well
designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not
absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system will be
met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in
part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future
events.

Item 9B.  
     
      Other Information   

None.

PART III. 

Item 10.  
     
      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   

The response to this Item is contained in part in the
Company s definitive proxy statement for its 2006 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders (the  2006 Proxy Statement )
under the captions  Board of Directors  and
 Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance,  and the information contained therein is
incorporated herein by reference.

Information regarding executive officers is set forth herein in
Part I., Item 4A, under the caption  Executive
Officers of the Company. 

The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct applicable to all
employees, including the principal executive officer, principal
financial officer, principal accounting officer and directors. A
copy of the Code of Conduct is available on the Company s
website at www.Redhook.com (select About
Redhook   Investor Relations  
Governance   Highlights). Any waivers of the code for
the Company s directors or executive officers will be
approved by the Board of Directors. The Company will disclose
any such waivers on a
Form  8-K  within
five business days after the waiver is approved.

Item 11.  
     
      Executive Compensation   

The response to this Item is contained in the 2006 Proxy
Statement under the caption  Executive Compensation, 
and the information contained therein is incorporated herein by
reference.

75

Table of Contents   

Item 12.  
     
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
Plans 

The following is a summary as of December 31, 2005 of all
equity compensation plans of the Company that provides for the
issuance of equity securities as compensation. See Note 8
to the Financial Statements   Common
Stockholders    Equity for additional discussion.

Number of Securities    

Remaining Available    

Number of Securities    

for Future Issuance    

to be Issued Upon    
       
      Weighted Average    
       
      under Equity    

Exercise of    
       
      Exercise Price of    
       
      Compensation Plans    

Outstanding Options,    
       
      Outstanding Options,    
       
      (excluding securities    

Warrants and Rights    
       
      Warrants and Rights    
       
      reflected in column (a))    

Plan Category  
       
      (a)    
       
      (b)    
       
      (c)    

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders

846,320 

$ 
     3.15 

109,559 

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

Total

846,320 

$ 
     3.15 

109,559 

The remaining response to this Item is contained in part in the
2006 Proxy Statement under the caption  Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,  and the
information contained therein is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 13.  
     
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   

The response to this Item is contained in the 2006 Proxy
Statement under the caption  Certain Transactions, 
and the information contained therein is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 14.  
     
      Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

The response to this Item is contained in the 2006 Proxy
Statement under the caption  Proposal 2  
Appointment of Independent Auditors,  and the information
contained therein is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV. 

Item 15.  
     
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this
report:

1.      Audited Financial
    Statements  

76

Table of Contents   

2.      Financial Statement
    Schedules  

All other Financial Statement Schedules are omitted because they
    are not applicable or the required information is shown in the
    Financial Statements and Notes. 

3.      Exhibits  

The following exhibits are filed with or incorporated by
    reference into this report pursuant to Item 601 of
    Regulation  S-K:  

EXHIBIT NO. 3 Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws 

EXHIBIT NO. 4 Instruments Defining the Rights of Security
    Holders, Including Indentures 

4.1 

Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of May 12,
    1999 between Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated and ChaseMellon
    Shareholder Services, L.L.C. (Incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.39 to the Company s Form 10-Q for the
    quarter ended March 31, 1999) 

4.2 

Amendment No. 1, dated as of May 18, 2004, to Amended
    and Restated Rights Agreement dated May 12, 1999 between
    Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated and Mellon Investor Services
    LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services,
    L.L.C.), as Rights Agent (Incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 1 to the Company s Form 8-A/A filed on
    June 28, 2004) 

EXHIBIT NO. 10 Material Contracts 

Executive Compensation Plans and Agreements 

77

Table of Contents   

78

Table of Contents   

Other Material Contracts 

79

Table of Contents   

80

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT NO. 16 Letter regarding Change in Certifying Accountant 

EXHIBIT NO. 21 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

EXHIBIT NO. 23 Consents of Experts and Counsel 

23.1 

Consent of Moss Adams LLP, Independent Registered Public
    Accountants 

23.2 

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm 

23.3 

Consent of Moss Adams LLP, Independent Registered Public
    Accountants 

31.1 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Redhook Ale Brewery,
    Incorporated pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002 

31.2 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Redhook Ale Brewery,
    Incorporated pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002 

32.1 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Redhook Ale Brewery,
    Incorporated pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
    adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002 

32.2 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Redhook Ale
    Brewery,, Incorporated pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
    Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

(*)  
     
    Confidential treatment has been granted for portions of this
    document. 

81

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Woodinville, State of
Washington, on March 31, 2006.

REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED 

By  
     
    /s/  David J. Mickelson

David J. Mickelson 

President and Chief Financial Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/  Paul S. Shipman 
     
     Paul S. Shipman 

Chief Executive Officer and 
    Chairman of the Board 
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  David J. Mickelson 
     
     David J. Mickelson 

President and Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Lorri L. Jones 
     
     Lorri L. Jones 

Controller and Treasurer 
    (Principal Accounting Officer) 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Frank H. Clement 
     
     Frank H. Clement 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  John W. Glick 
     
     John W. Glick 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  David R. Lord 
     
     David R. Lord 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Michael Loughran 
     
     Michael Loughran 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  John D. Rogers, Jr. 
     
     John D. Rogers, Jr.  

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/  Anthony J. Short 
     
     Anthony J. Short 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

82

Table of Contents   

In accordance with Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X, separate
financial statements for Craft Brands Alliance LLC are provided
as a financial statement schedule.

CRAFT BRANDS ALLIANCE LLC 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT 

REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS 

and 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004 

83

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS 

To the Members and Board of Directors

Craft Brands Alliance LLC

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Craft Brands
Alliance LLC as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
related statements of income, members  equity and cash
flows for the year ended December 31, 2005 and six month
period ended December 31, 2004. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of Craft Brands Alliance LLC at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the
year ended December 31, 2005, and six month period ended
December 31, 2004, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

Seattle, Washington

March 14, 2006

84

Table of Contents   

CRAFT BRANDS ALLIANCE LLC 

BALANCE SHEETS 

See accompanying notes.

85

Table of Contents   

CRAFT BRANDS ALLIANCE LLC 

STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

Year Ended December 31, 2005 AND Six Months Ended
December 31, 2004 

See accompanying notes.

86

Table of Contents   

CRAFT BRANDS ALLIANCE LLC 

STATEMENT OF MEMBERS  EQUITY 

See accompanying notes.

87

Table of Contents   

CRAFT BRANDS ALLIANCE LLC 

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

Year Ended December 31, 2005 AND Six Months Ended
December 31, 2004 

See accompanying notes.

88

Table of Contents   

CRAFT BRANDS ALLIANCE LLC 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Note 1    
     
     Company Operating Agreement  

The Operating Agreement was made and entered into effective
July 1, 2004, by and between Widmer Brothers Brewing
Company, an Oregon corporation ( Widmer ), Redhook Ale
Brewery, Incorporated, a Washington corporation
( Redhook ), and Craft Brands Alliance LLC (the
 Company ). Widmer and Redhook referred to hereinafter
as the  Members. 

Widmer and Redhook are both manufacturers of craft malt
beverages. Widmer and Redhook each have a distribution agreement
with Anheuser-Busch, Inc. ( A-B ) pursuant to which
A-B distributes the malt beverage products of Widmer and Redhook.

Widmer and Redhook Products are currently distributed in the
following common states: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado,
Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, New Mexico, Nevada, Oregon, Washington,
and Wyoming (the  Initial Territory ). The Members
have determined that it would create certain efficiencies and
synergies for Widmer and Redhook to consolidate certain
marketing, advertising, sales, distribution, and related
operations and to jointly market, advertise, sell, and
distribute their respective Products in the Initial Territory.
The Members intend for Company to market, advertise, sell, and
distribute the Products in the Initial Territory on an exclusive
basis; provided that in the state of Washington,
(1) Company will receive orders for Products from A-B
Wholesalers, (2) Company will assign the orders to Widmer
or Redhook, and (3) the Products will be sold and
distributed directly by Redhook and Widmer to A-B wholesalers
located in Washington. The Products will continue to be
distributed through A-B.

The Operating Agreement maybe terminated by either member if A-B
no longer distributes the products of Craft Brands Alliance LLC.

A-B currently has an equity interest in both Widmer and Redhook.

The Company has the following additional agreements with Widmer
Brothers Brewing Company and Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated:

A Supply, Distribution, and Licensing Agreement by and between
    Widmer and Company, pursuant to which Company purchases
    Widmer s Products from Widmer and has the exclusive right
    to advertise and market the Widmer Products in the Initial
    Territory and to distribute the Widmer Products in the Initial
    Territory except for Washington. 

A Supply, Distribution, and Licensing Agreement by and between
    Redhook and Company, pursuant to which Company purchases the
    Redhook Products from Redhook and has the exclusive right to
    advertise and market the Redhook Products in the Initial
    Territory and to distribute the Redhook Products in the Initial
    Territory except for Washington. 

A Master Distributor Agreement by and between A-B and Company,
    pursuant to which A-B distributes the Redhook Products and the
    Widmer Products in the Initial Territory (other than Washington). 

A Master Distributor Agreement between A-B and Widmer, pursuant
    to which A-B wholesalers continue to distribute Widmer Products
    in Washington. 

A Master Distributor Agreement between A-B and Redhook, pursuant
    to which A-B continues to distribute Redhook Products outside
    the Initial Territory. 

A Management Services Agreement by and between Company and
    Widmer, pursuant to which Widmer provides Company certain
    management services, and licenses to Company certain office
    space. 

A License and Services Agreement by and between Company and
    Redhook pursuant to which Redhook licenses certain space and
    provides certain services to Company. 

89

Table of Contents   

CRAFT BRANDS ALLIANCE LLC 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

A Consulting Services Agreement by and between Company and
    Widmer pursuant to which Company provides certain consulting
    services to Widmer. 

A Consulting Services Agreement by and between Company and
    Redhook pursuant to which Company provides certain consulting
    services to Redhook. 

A Cross-Indemnity Agreement pursuant to which each Member agrees
    to indemnify and defend the other Member and Company from claims
    brought by the shareholders of the indemnifying Member against
    either the indemnified Member or Company. 

Limited Liability Company Profit Distribution   
The profit is distributed between its members at a
58% & 42% split to Widmer and Redhook, respectively.
This calculation is completed after the Kona profit is
determined, which is based on Kona s volume percentage of
the total Company sales volume. The Kona percentage is then
multiplied by the income total and is distributed by 70%/30%
split in 2004 between Widmer and Redhook, respectively. The Kona
profitability split changes each year, 65%/35% in 2005 to
60%/40% in 2006 and until 2007 when the split is the 58%/42%
income distribution for Widmer and Redhook, respectively, as it
is for all products according to the Agreement. The remaining
income is then shared between Widmer and Redhook at the
above-mentioned split. The profit distribution is paid to the
members monthly once the financial statements are finalized. The
profit distribution may be lower than the monthly income
generated if additional working capital is required to satisfy
the Company s needs.

Master Distributor Agreement with
Anheuser-Busch    The Company entered into a Master
Distributor Agreement with A-B on July 1, 2004. Under the
terms of the Agreement, the Company granted A-B the exclusive
right to serve as the Master Distributor for the Company s
products, except in the state of Washington. The Company sells
its products to A-B who in turn then sells the products to its
wholesalers. In addition, the Company pays A-B specified fees
for certain transaction processing and product handling.

The Agreement remains in effect until December 31, 2014 and
renews automatically for an additional ten-year period unless
terminated by either party upon at least six months prior
written notice. In addition, either party may terminate the
Agreement at any time upon 30 days to six months prior
written notice in the event of default of either party s
performance if the default issue is not cured within the
specified time frame. Also, A-B can terminate the Agreement
immediately if changes in ownership, control or incompatible
conduct on the part of the Company which is not remedied within
the required time.

A-B is also due an Incremental Margin Fee which is derived from
the quarterly volume in the given year compared to the 2003 base
volume. Any volume gain over the 2003 base volume is remitted to
A-B within 45 days of the end of the quarter. This fee
updates annually based on the GDP Deflator.

Note 2    
     
     Description of Operations and Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies  

Description of operations    Craft Brands
Alliance LLC was formed on July 1, 2004 in Oregon by Widmer
Brothers Brewing Company and Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated.
The Company represents three malt beverage brands  
Widmer, Redhook and Kona in 13 western states, including Alaska,
Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada,
New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming, acting as a
sales representative, marketing firm and wholesaler for the
breweries in this area, except in the state of Washington.
Approximately 56% in 2005 and 54% in 2004 of the sales volume
for the Company is from the California and Oregon markets.

Cash equivalents    All highly liquid investment
instruments with a remaining maturity of three months or less
when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents. Cash
equivalents are stated at cost plus accrued interest, which
approximates market value.

Accounts receivable    Sales are made to
approved customers on an open account basis, subject to
established credit limits, and generally no collateral is
required. Accounts receivable are stated at an amount

90

Table of Contents   

CRAFT BRANDS ALLIANCE LLC 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

management expects to collect. The Company has recorded an
allowance for doubtful accounts of $10,000 at December 31,
2005 and 2004. This allowance is based on management s
evaluation of outstanding accounts receivable at the end of the
period.

Inventory    Inventory includes only point of
sale and promotional merchandise items. The inventory items are
based on the average cost method. These inventory items are
classified as finished goods when received.

Fixed Assets    Property and equipment are
stated at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives
using straight-line and accelerated methods. Estimated useful
lives range from 5 to 20 years for equipment. Repairs and
maintenance are expensed as incurred; renewals and betterments
are capitalized. Upon disposal of equipment, the accounts are
relieved of the costs and related accumulated depreciation, and
resulting gains or losses are reflected in operations.

Fixed assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
No. 144,  Accounting for the Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets . The Company assesses impairment of property, plant
and equipment whenever changes in circumstances indicate the
carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable.

Income taxes    Craft Brands Alliance LLC is a
limited liability company that was established as a partnership
and is not required to pay any income taxes, due to the entity
type. The members owning the company will be required to report
all income and associated taxes on their financial reports and
tax filings.

Use of estimates    The preparation of the
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. The Company bases its estimates on
historical experience and on various assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time.
Actual results may differ from those estimates under different
assumptions or conditions.

Concentration of credit risk    Financial
instruments that potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk consist of cash and accounts
receivable. At times, cash balances exceed federal insured
limits. However, cash is held on deposit in a major financial
institution and is considered minimum credit risk.

Substantially all of the Company s revenues for the periods
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 are from related parties.
Related party receivables are disclosed in Note 3.

Fair value of financial instruments    The
recorded value of the Company s financial instruments is
considered to approximate the fair value of the instruments, in
all material respects, because the Company s receivables
and payables are recorded at amounts expected to be realized and
paid.

91

Table of Contents   

CRAFT BRANDS ALLIANCE LLC 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Product purchase price    The products from the
participating breweries are purchased at what is referred to as
the transfer price. The transfer price updates annually based on
the last  12-months 
actual net sales per barrel results. The average net sales price
per barrel for Widmer, Redhook and Kona split between draught
and package are multiplied by 59%. Then, the average excise tax
rate is then added to the total to create the new transfer
price. The price is updated annually based on the last
 12-month  results as of
September 30 for the next calendar year.

Advertising    The Company expenses advertising
costs when incurred. Advertising expense during the year ended
2005 totaled $1,038,786 and for the period ended 2004 totaled
$342,507.

Recent accounting pronouncements    Due to FASB
Interpretation Number 46 (FIN 46)   Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities, Craft Brands Alliance LLC
financial statements will be consolidated with Widmer Brothers
Brewing Company for reporting purposes. The decision to
consolidate at the Widmer company level is due to their control
of the Company based on the greater than 50% profit share for
Widmer since the number of board seats and ownership percentage
is equal between the Company members.

Note 3    
     
     Related Party Transactions  

The Company has transactions and account balances with
affiliates, including the Company s two members, plus Kona
Brewery LLC, which are suppliers to the Company and through the
distribution relationship with Anheuser-Busch Inc. that sells
the Company s products directly to the wholesalers, except
in the state of Washington.

Note 4    
     
     Notes Payable  

The Company issued member notes payable that were paid off in
their entirety prior to the 2004 period-end. The original notes
payable were related to initial startup loans by Widmer and
Redhook as a part of the Operating Agreement to fund the initial
working capital requirements. The Operating Agreement states
that within ten days following the operative date of this
Agreement each Member shall make a Required Member Loan to
Company in the amount requested by Company, up to $150,000 each.
Craft Brands Alliance has repaid each brewery the principal
amount, plus interest based on the federal funds rate.

Note 5    
     
     Members  Equity  

As a part of the Operating Agreement, each member will own
500 units of the company. The units have no par value. No
stock certificates were issued to represent the units. The
initial capital contribution was $100 for each brewery. Only
1,000 units were initially authorized for Craft Brands
Alliance LLC.

92

Table of Contents   

CRAFT BRANDS ALLIANCE LLC 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Redhook was required to make an additional capital contribution
due to lower than expected volume results for 2003, which
totaled $250,000. These dollars must be used to market,
advertise, promote and invest directly into the Redhook brand
within the established territory. $114,772 of Redhook marketing
expenses was used to promote the brand during the six month
period ended December 31, 2004, leaving a $135,228 balance
as of December 31, 2004, which was invested in the Redhook
brand during 2005. No additional capital contribution was made
in 2005.

Note 6    
     
     Retirement Plan  

The Company established a deferred compensation retirement plan,
which covers employees that are at least 18 years of age
and with greater than three months of service. Under the terms
of the plan, participating employees may defer a portion of
their gross wages. The Company has a discretionary match that is
stated as 50% of the employee s contributions up to 6% of
their gross wages. The Company funded $135,706 for the year
ended 2005 and $43,651 in employer contributions for the period
ended 2004. $6,513 of the total 2005 employer contribution was
drawn on the Company bank account in 2006 though it was accrued
in 2005.

Note 7    
     
     Commitments  

The Company has made commitments with two sports teams and one
product placement service. One is an advertising agreement with
Global Spectrum (Trail Blazers), which includes $45,000 in
sponsorship costs with $33,750 due in 2006. The other sports
team commitment is with the Seattle Mariners baseball team,
which includes agreements for radio and stadium signage
commitments totaling $167,916 in 2006. The product placement
agreement is with Royal Promotions and Placement, Inc., which
provides product placement in feature films and television
programming. The 2006 commitment is $21,000 for the first six
months of the year, with an option to continue for the remaining
six months of 2006, which adds another $27,000 to the agreement
payout. The renewal option will be based on the mid-year
performance review results.

93

<EX-10.22>
 2
 v17800exv10w22.txt
 EXHIBIT 10.22

EXHIBIT 10.22

                                 SUMMARY SHEET
                                       OF
             DIRECTOR COMPENSATION AND EXECUTIVE CASH COMPENSATION

DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

      Non-employee directors of Redhook are currently entitled to receive both
stock-based and cash compensation for their service on the Redhook board.
Effective January 1, 2006, each non-employee director (other than
Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated Designated directors) will receive an annual grant
of 3,500 shares of common stock of the Company. The stock grant will be awarded
upon a director's election to the Board following the Company's Annual Meeting
of Shareholders. The non-employee directors will no longer participate in the
2002 Stock Option Plan.

      Each non-employee director will also receive annual compensation of
$10,000, which will be paid quarterly. The Chair of each of the Nominating and
Governance, Audit, Marketing and Compensation Committees will receive additional
annual compensation of $4,000, which will be paid following the Annual Meeting
of Shareholders. Each Audit Committee member, other than the Chair, will receive
an additional annual payment of $1,000.

EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION

      The current base salaries for the Company's executive officers are:

Executive officers are eligible to receive an annual incentive payment, of
which 50% will be discretionary and 50% will be paid upon achieving certain
targets per terms set forth by, and as approved by, the Compensation Committee
or the board. The 2006 target incentives for the Company's executive officers
are:

The Company also pays a monthly car allowance in accordance with each
officer's letter of agreement regarding employment. The current car allowances
for the Company's executive are:

</EX-10.22>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 v17800exv23w1.txt
 EXHIBIT 23.1

EXHIBIT 23.1

CONSENT OF MOSS ADAMS LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement (Form
S-8 No. 333-18945) pertaining to the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, and
the Amended and Restated Directors Stock Option Plan, and the Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-90524) pertaining to the 2002 Stock Option Plan of
Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated of our report dated March 29, 2006 with
respect to the financial statements of Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated
included in the Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2005.

/s/ MOSS ADAMS LLP

Seattle, Washington
March 29, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 4
 v17800exv23w2.txt
 EXHIBIT 23.2

EXHIBIT 23.2

   CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

        We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-18945) pertaining to the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan,
as amended, and the Amended and Restated Directors Stock Option Plan and in the
Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-90524) pertaining to the 2002 Stock
Option Plan of Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated of our report dated January 23,
2004, except for the fourth paragraph of note 1, as to which the date is July 1,
2004, with respect to the financial statements of Redhook Ale Brewery,
Incorporated for the year ended December 31, 2003 included in this Annual Report
(Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2005.

                                          /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Seattle, Washington
March 29, 2006

</EX-23.2>

<EX-23.3>
 5
 v17800exv23w3.txt
 EXHIBIT 23.3

EXHIBIT 23.3

CONSENT OF MOSS ADAMS LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement (Form
S-8 No. 333-18945) pertaining to the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, and
the Amended and Restated Directors Stock Option Plan, and the Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-90524) pertaining to the 2002 Stock Option Plan of
Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated of our report dated March 14, 2006 with
respect to the financial statements of Craft Brands Alliance LLC included in the
Annual Report of Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated (Form 10-K) for the year
ended December 31, 2005.

/s/ MOSS ADAMS LLP

Seattle, Washington
March 29, 2006

</EX-23.3>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 v17800exv31w1.txt
 EXHIBIT 31.1

EXHIBIT 31.1

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, Paul S. Shipman, certify that:

1.    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Redhook Ale Brewery,
      Incorporated;

2.    Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
      statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
      make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
      statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
      this annual report;

3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
      information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
      respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
      the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
      report;

4.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant
      and we have:

      (a)   Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
            disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
            supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
            registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known
            to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
            period in which this annual report is being prepared;

      (b)   Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
            and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
            the effectiveness of the disclosure controls a d procedures, as of
            the end of the period covered by this report based on such
            evaluation; and

      (c)   Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
            control over financial reporting that occurred during the
            registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
            fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
            affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
            registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions);

      (a)   All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
            or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
            reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
            record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

      (b)   Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
            other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
            internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006

                                   BY: /s/ Paul S. Shipman
                                       ---------------------------------------
                                       Paul S. Shipman
                                       Chief Executive Officer and
                                       Chairman of the Board

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 v17800exv31w2.txt
 EXHIBIT 31.2

EXHIBIT 31.2

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, David J. Mickelson, certify that:

1.    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Redhook Ale Brewery,
      Incorporated;

2.    Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
      statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
      make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
      statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
      this annual report;

3.    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
      information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
      respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
      the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
      report;

4.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant
      and we have:

      (a)   Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
            disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
            supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
            registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known
            to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
            period in which this annual report is being prepared;

      (b)   Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
            and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
            the effectiveness of the disclosure controls a d procedures, as of
            the end of the period covered by this report based on such
            evaluation; and

      (c)   Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
            control over financial reporting that occurred during the
            registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
            fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
            affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
            registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

5.    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
      our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
      to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
      board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions);

      (a)   All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
            or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
            reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
            record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

      (b)   Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
            other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
            internal control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006

                                      BY: /s/ David J. Mickelson
                                          -----------------------------------
                                                     David J. Mickelson
                                                     President and Chief
                                                     Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 v17800exv32w1.txt
 EXHIBIT 32.1

EXHIBIT 32.1

                    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                        REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED
                 FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003
                 PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED
            PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I am the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Redhook Ale
Brewery, Incorporated, a Washington corporation (the "Company"). I am delivering
this certificate in connection with the Form 10-K of the Company for the year
ended December 31, 2005 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
("Form 10-K").

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge,
the Form 10-K fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained
in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date: March 31, 2006

                                        BY: /s/ Paul S. Shipman
                                            -----------------------------------
                                                Paul S. Shipman
                                                Chief Executive Officer and
                                                Chairman of the Board

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 v17800exv32w2.txt
 EXHIBIT 32.2

EXHIBIT 32.2

                    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
                        REDHOOK ALE BREWERY, INCORPORATED
                 FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003
                 PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED
            PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I am the President and Chief Financial Officer of Redhook Ale Brewery,
Incorporated, a Washington corporation (the "Company"). I am delivering this
certificate in connection with the Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2005 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Form
10-K").

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge,
the Form 10-K fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained
in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date: March 31, 2006

                                      BY: /s/  David J. Mickelson
                                          -----------------------------------
                                               David J. Mickelson
                                               President and Chief Financial
                                               Officer

</EX-32.2>

