<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_98720_0000950134-06-006431_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1255536</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>301353</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>572282</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>58</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-006431.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331170213
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-006431
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			TOREADOR RESOURCES CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000098720
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				750991164
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-02517
		FILM NUMBER:		06729783

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4809 COLE AVENUE SUITE 108
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75205
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2145593933

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4809 COLE AVENUE SUITE 108
		CITY:			DALLAS
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75205

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TOREADOR ROYALTY CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MUwiLYn87wrKhn1sPL32SQT+n2IhYOFOl6k1TzrMSMawnr0Rkz2S1ZmYhnv0FqVv
 HndzTt0kuFGXsVkz/H1X6A==

 0000950134-06-006431.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 d34156e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended: December 31, 2005

OR 

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 0-02517 

Toreador Resources Corporation 

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (214) 559-3933 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: None.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act:

Title of each Class: 

Name of each exchange on which registered:  

COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.15625 PER SHARE

NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET SYSTEM 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (check one) Large accelerated filer     Accelerated
filer     Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). Yes     No    

The aggregate market value of the voting common equity of the registrant held by
non-affiliates, computed by reference to the closing sales price of such stock, as of June 30, 2005
was $217,834,420. (For purposes of determination of the aggregate market value, only directors,
executive officers and 10% or greater stockholders have been deemed affiliates.)

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s common stock, par value $.15625, as of
March 24, 2006, was 15,561,314 shares.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, expected
to be filed on or prior to April 7, 2006, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form
10-K.

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

PART I  

Item 1 and 2.

Business and Properties

2 

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

20 

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

31 

Item 2.

Properties (see Item 1. Business and Properties)

31 

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

31 

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

32 

PART II  

Item 5.

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

32 

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

33 

Item 7.

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

34 

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

46 

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

47 

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

47 

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

47 

Item 9B.

Other Information

50 

PART III  

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

50 

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

51 

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters

51 

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

51 

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

51 

PART IV  

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

51 

SIGNATURES 

52 

Warrant No. 30    
     Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges    
     Subsidiaries    
     Consent of Hein & Associates LLP    
     Consent of LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd.    
     Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of Chief Accounting Officer Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of CEO, CFO and Chief Accounting Officer Pursuant to Section 906    

1

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties 

Toreador Resources Corporation, a Delaware corporation ( Toreador,   we,   us,   our,  or the
 Company ), is an independent international energy company engaged in oil and natural gas
exploration, development, production, leasing and acquisition activities. Our strategy is to
increase our reserves through a balanced combination of exploratory drilling, development and
exploitation projects and acquisitions. We primarily focus on international exploration activities
in countries where we can establish large acreage positions. We also focus on prospects where we do
not have to compete directly with major integrated or large independent oil and natural gas
producers and where extensive geophysical and geological data is available. Our international
operations are all located in European Union or European Union candidate countries that we believe
have stable governments, have existing transportation infrastructure, have attractive fiscal
policies and are net importers of oil and natural gas.

We currently hold interests in permits granting us the right to explore and develop oil and
natural gas properties in offshore and onshore Turkey, Hungary, Romania and France. We also own
various non-operating working interest properties primarily in Texas, Kansas, New Mexico, Louisiana
and Oklahoma. At December 31, 2005, we held interests in approximately 4.7 million gross acres and
approximately 3.8 million net acres, of which 98% is undeveloped. At December 31, 2005, our
estimated net proved reserves were 15 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBOE).

Historically, our operations have been concentrated in the Paris Basin in France and in south
central onshore Turkey. These two regions accounted for 85% of our total proved reserves as of
December 31, 2005 and approximately 78% of our total production for the year ended December 31,
2005.

Incorporated in 1951, we were formerly known as Toreador Royalty Corporation.

See the  Glossary of Selected Oil and Natural Gas Terms  at the end of Item 1 for the
definition of certain terms in this annual report.

Recent Developments 

Public Offering 

On February 16, 2005, we sold 1,437,500 shares of our common stock pursuant to a public
offering at a price to the public of $24.25 per share. The sale resulted in net proceeds of
approximately $32.3 million. The proceeds were used to fund the 2005 capital expenditure program
and for general corporate purposes.

Acquisition 

In June 2005, we acquired 100% of Pogo Hungary Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Pogo
Producing Company. The purchase price was approximately $9 million.

Private Placement 

On September 16, 2005, we sold 806,450 shares of our common stock to certain accredited
investors pursuant to a private placement. We have used and will use the net proceeds of
approximately $23.6 million for general corporate purposes, including the funding of our capital
expenditures requirements in 2005 and 2006.

Convertible Notes 

On September 27 and September 30, 2005, we sold an aggregate principal amount of $86,250,000
of the 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025. We have used and will use the net proceeds of
approximately $82.2 million for general corporate purposes, including the funding of our capital
expenditures requirements in 2005 and 2006.

2

Table of Contents   

Production Structure Issues 

In 2005 two separate incidents occurred, in offshore Turkey in the Black Sea, which resulted
in the loss of two caissons and three wells. Both of these incidents were insured and the Company
expects to receive reimbursement, from the insurance company for substantially the entire value of
the two caissons and three wells, as the replacement wells are redrilled and the new structures are
installed.

Drilling and Production Facility Update 

In January, the Charmottes-111H horizontal well was completed as an oil producer in France.
The development well is currently producing 400 barrels of oil per day during daylight hours for
five days a week. Once the well is connected to a pipeline, which will take place during the
second quarter, it is anticipated that production rates will be held to approximately 500 barrels
per day to properly manage the reservoir.

Also in January, a contract was awarded to Momentum Engineering of Dubai, UAE, for the
construction and installation of production platforms for the South Akcakoca Sub-basin natural gas
project offshore Turkey in the Black Sea. The contract was for two platforms with an option for
another two platforms. Based on drilling success, one of the options for an additional platform
was exercised in March.

In February, the Dogu Ayazli-1 exploration well encountered approximately 60 meters of net pay
from 12 zones in the Eocene-age Kusuri formation offshore Turkey in the South Akcakoca Sub-basin.
During extended testing the well produced over 9.0 million cubic feet per day of natural gas, and
was suspended after testing while waiting for installation of a production platform. Subsequently,
the Dogu Ayazli-2 was spudded in early March to test the northwest flank of the structure.

In March, the Akkaya-2 well confirmed the presence of natural gas on the northern flank of the
Akkaya prospect in the South Akcakoca Sub-basin. Logs indicated net pay of approximately 21
meters, which was in line with expectations. The well was scheduled to be tested in mid to late
March.

In Romania, a production facility was constructed in the Fauresti field to allow production
from the four wells re-entered in 2005 and suspended as gas producers. It is anticipated that
permits to sell the gas produced will be awarded in early April 2006. It is our understanding that
when we start selling our gas in Romania, we will be the first non-Romanian exploration and
production company to do so.

Strategy 

Our business strategy is to grow our oil and natural gas reserves, production volumes and cash
flows through drilling internally generated prospects, primarily in the international arena. We
also seek complementary acquisitions of new interests in our core geographic areas of operation.

We seek to:

Target under-explored basins in international regions. 

Our international operations are all located in European Union or European Union candidate
countries that we believe have stable governments, have existing transportation infrastructure,
have attractive fiscal policies and are net importers of oil and natural gas. We focus on countries
where we can establish large acreage positions that we believe offer multi-year investment
opportunities and concentrate on prospects where extensive geophysical and geological data is
available. Currently, we have international operations in Turkey, Hungary, Romania and France. We
believe our concentrated and extensive acreage positions have allowed us to develop the regional
expertise needed to interpret specific geological trends and develop economies of scale.

Maintain a deep inventory of drilling prospects. 

Our South Akcakoca sub-basin gas project is located on approximately 50,000 acres within our
approximately 962,000 acre Western Black Sea permits. It is the only area we have explored within
these permits and we believe

3

Table of Contents   

there are significant additional drilling opportunities within and
outside of the South Akcakoca sub-basin. Similarly, we believe our Hungarian and Romanian positions
offer multi-year drilling opportunities.

Pursue new permits and selective property acquisitions. 

We target incremental acquisitions in our existing core areas through the pursuit of new
permits. Our additional growth initiatives include identifying acquisitions of (i) producing
properties that will enable us to increase our production and (ii) reserve and acreage positions on
favorable economic terms. Generally, we seek properties and acquisition candidates where we can
apply our existing technical knowledge base.

Manage our risk exposure. 

Because exploration projects have a higher degree of risk than development projects, we
generally plan to limit our exploratory expenditures to approximately one-half of the total annual
capital expenditure budget per year. We have balanced our exploration and development activities to
support our overall goal of growing and maintaining a long-lived reserve base. We also expect to
make significant investments in seismic data. By equipping our geologists and geophysicists with
state-of-the-art seismic information, we intend to increase the number of higher potential
prospects we drill. As deemed appropriate, we may enter into joint ventures in order to reduce our
risk exposure in exchange for a portion of our interests.

Maintain operational flexibility. 

Given the volatility of commodity prices and the risks involved in drilling, we remain
flexible and may adjust our drilling program and capital expenditure budget. We may defer capital
projects in order to seize attractive acquisition opportunities. If certain areas generate
higher-than-anticipated returns, we may accelerate drilling in those areas and decrease capital
expenditures elsewhere.

Leverage experienced management, local expertise and technical knowledge. 

We have assembled a management team with considerable technical expertise and industry
experience. The members of our management team average more than 25 years of exploration and
development experience in over 40 countries. Additionally, we have an extensive team of technical
experts and many of these experts are nationals in the countries in which we operate. We believe
this provides us with local expertise in our countries of operations.

Turkey 

We established our initial position in Turkey at the end of 2001 through the acquisition of
Madison Oil Company. In Turkey, we currently hold interests in 22 exploration and three
exploitation permits covering approximately 2.0 million net acres. Our exploration and development
program focuses on the following areas:

Western Black Sea Permits 

We currently are the operator and hold a 36.75% working interest in the Western Black Sea
permits, which cover approximately 962,000 gross acres.

South Akcakoca Sub-Basin 

The South Akcakoca sub-basin is an area of approximately 50,000 acres located in the Western
Black Sea, offshore Turkey. We discovered gas in September 2004 with the Ayazli-1 well and since
that time have drilled five successful delineation wells, the Akkaya-1, Ayazli-2, Ayazli-3, Dogu
Ayazli-1 and Akkaya-2. The Cayagzi-1 delineation well was drilled to total depth and did not
encounter hydrocarbons, and was plugged and abandoned. We expect to drill five development wells in
2006, two of which will require a floating rig, and complete the first phase of pipeline and
facility construction with production to begin in the second half of 2006. The first phase of
infrastructure development includes: setting up four production platforms; laying two sub sea
pipelines; constructing the onshore processing facility for the entire sub-basin development; and
constructing the onshore pipeline to tie into the national pipeline operated by the Turkish
national gas utility.

4

Table of Contents   

Eregli Sub-Basin 

The Eregli sub-basin is an area of approximately 75,000 acres located in the Western Black
Sea, offshore Turkey. We plan to shoot a high resolution 2D seismic survey on the permit in
preparation for an exploration program, which we expect to commence in mid-2006. We also plan to
drill one exploration well prior to the end of 2006.

Thrace Black Sea Permits 

The Thrace Black Sea permits are located offshore Turkey in the Black Sea between Bulgarian
waters and the Bosporus Straits. We are the operator and hold a 100% working interest in the permit
covering 844,000 net acres. In June 2005, HEMA Endustri A.S., a Turkish-based conglomerate, agreed
to pay 100% of the first $1.5 million of the geophysical and exploration costs on this acreage to
receive an option for a 50% interest in this permit.

Central Black Sea Permit 

In January 2005, the Turkish government awarded us two additional Black Sea permits located in
shallow waters offshore central Turkey comprising approximately 233,000 acres. We will conduct an
analysis of existing technical data on these two permits in which we hold a 100% working interest.

Eastern Black Sea Permit 

We were recently awarded an exploration permit on three blocks in the Black Sea offshore
Turkey in the coastal waters to the west northwest of the city of Trabzon. The three blocks total
approximately 357,062 acres. We are the operator of and hold 100% working interest in this permit.

Calgan Permit 

Onshore in south central Turkey, we currently operate and hold a 75% working interest in the
Calgan exploration permit, which covers an area of approximately 92,000 net acres. In 2004, we
drilled the Calgan-2 exploratory well which encountered oil shows. In October 2005, we drilled a lateral extension
and we are currently reviewing the best method to utilize in completing the well. Additionally, we
are participants in a development well in the Cendere Field, located east of the Calgan permit,
with a 20% working interest.

Southeast Turkey Permit 

Onshore in southeast Turkey, east southeast of our Calgan permit, we were recently granted an
exploration permit on one block of approximately 95,897 acres. The block is west of some existing
oil fields. We are operator of and hold 100% working interest in this permit.

Hungary 

We established our initial position in Hungary in June 2005 through the acquisition of Pogo
Hungary Ltd. from Pogo Producing Company for $9 million. We currently hold an interest in one
exploration permit covering two blocks aggregating approximately 764,000 net acres.

Szolnok Block 

Two gas wells were drilled by the previous operator in the Szolnok Block, each of which
initially tested at over 4 Mmcf per day. We expect to construct a gas processing facility and
tie-in pipeline for such wells in 2006, once we complete negotiations and finalize a gas contract
with the Hungarian national oil company. In addition, extensive 2D and 3D seismic surveys conducted
by the prior owner delineated multiple prospects, and we intend to start exploration drilling on
the Szolnok Block in 2006.

5

Table of Contents   

Tompa Block 

The Tompa Block prospect, where we expect to commence drilling in the first half of 2006, is
located in the northeast corner of the Tompa Block, situated between two existing producing fields.
Extensive 2D and 3D seismic surveys conducted by the prior owner delineated multiple drilling
prospects.

Romania 

We established our initial position in Romania in early 2003 through the award of an
exploration permit in the Viperesti block. We hold a 100% interest in one rehabilitation and two
exploration permits covering approximately 625,000 acres.

Viperesti Permit 

We currently are the operator and hold 100% of this exploration permit, covering approximately
324,000 acres.

Moinesti Permit 

We are the operator and hold 100% of this exploration permit, covering approximately 300,000
acres. We are currently gathering geological and geophysical data and reprocessing seismic data.

Fauresti Rehabilitation Permit 

We are the operator and hold 100% of this rehabilitation permit covering an existing shut-in
oil field covering approximately 1,325 acres. During 2005, we conducted a six-well re-entry
program and were successful in converting four of the wells into natural gas and condensate producers. A second five-well
re-entry program is planned for 2006.

France 

We established our initial position in France at the end of 2001 through the acquisition of
Madison Oil Company. We hold interests in permits covering five producing oil fields in the Paris
Basin on approximately 24,261 net acres as well as four exploration permits covering approximately
278,946 net acres.

Charmottes Field 

We hold a 100% working interest and operate the permit covering the Charmottes Field, which
currently has 12 producing oil wells. Operations are being conducted to optimize production on two
recently drilled horizontal wells, the Charmottes-108H and the Charmottes-110H.

Neocomian Complex 

Pursuant to two exploitation permits, we operate and hold a 100% working interest in the
permits covering the Neocomian Fields, a group of four oil fields. The complex currently has 81
producing oil wells.

Courtenay Permit 

We hold a 100% working interest and are the operator of this permit covering approximately
183,000 acres which surrounds the Neocomian Fields. We expect to begin an exploration drilling
program on this permit in 2006.

Nemours Permit 

We hold a 33 1 /3% working interest in this permit covering approximately 47,300
gross acres which is operated by Lundin Petroleum AB. During 2005 oil was discovered in the La
Tonnelle-1 exploration well. Further development activity is expected in 2006.

6

Table of Contents   

Nangis Permit 

We hold a 100% working interest in the approximately 50,000 acre Nagis permit in the northern
Paris Basin.

Aufferville permit 

We hold a 100% working interest and operate this permit covering approximately 33,100 acres.

United States 

We hold non-operating working interests in 943 gross wells (52 net wells) primarily in Texas,
Oklahoma, New Mexico, Kansas and Louisiana. We intend to spend approximately $3 million in the
United States in 2006.

Title To Oil and Natural Gas Properties 

We do not hold title to any of our international properties, but we have been granted permits
by the applicable government entities that allow us, as applicable, to engage in exploration,
exploitation and production.

Turkey 

We have 22 exploration permits covering six geographic regions. The Western Black Sea permits
have been extended through 2007, the Calgan permit expires in 2007, the Southeast Turkey and the
Eastern Black Sea permits expire in 2008 and the Thrace Black Sea and the Central Black Sea permits
expire in 2009. Onshore exploration permits are granted for four-year terms and may be extended for
two additional two-year terms, and offshore exploration permits are granted for six-year terms and
may be extended for two additional three-year terms, provided that drilling obligations stipulated
under Turkish law are satisfied. Under Turkish law, exploitation permits are generally granted for
a period of 20 years and may be renewed upon application for two additional 10-year periods. If an
exploration permit is extended for development as an exploitation permit, the period of the
exploration permit is counted toward the 20-year exploitation permit.

The following is certain information relating to our Turkish proved reserves:

(1) 
       
     Exploitation Permit 

(2) 
       
     Exploration Permit 

Hungary 

We have not yet established proved reserves on any of these properties. We have one
exploration permit that expires in 2009.

Romania 

The Moinesti and Viperesti permits will expire in 2009 and the Fauresti rehabilitation permit
will expire in 2015. If, prior to the expiration of our Romanian permits, we have not completed the
minimum exploration program required by the permits, we must pay the estimated costs of such
exploration program to the Romanian government. If we were required to make such payments to the
Romanian government, we estimate that the aggregate amount

7

Table of Contents   

would be approximately $8 million. We
have not yet established proved reserves on the Moinesti and Viperesti permits.

The following is certain information relating to our Romanian proved reserves, all of which
relate to the pre-expiration period of the Fauresti Rehabilitation permit:

France 

We hold four French exploration permits: Aufferville, Nemours, Nangis and Courtenay. No proved
reserves have been established in these permits. The Nangis permit expiry date has been extended to
mid-2006, the Courtenay permit expires in 2006, and the Aufferville and Nemours permits both expire
in 2007. The French exploration permits have minimum financial requirements that we expect to meet
during their terms. If such obligations are not met, the permits could be subject to forfeiture.

The French exploitation permits that cover five producing oil fields in the Paris Basin are:

Although the French government has no obligation to renew exploitation permits, we believe it
will renew such exploitation permits so long as we, the permit holder, demonstrate financial and
technical capabilities and establish the studies used in defining the work schedule. However, there
can be no assurance that we will be able to renew any permits that expire.

United States 

We currently own interests in producing acreage only in the form of non-operating working
interests due to the sale of our U.S. mineral and royalty interests in January 2004.

Oil and Natural Gas Reserves 

The following table sets forth information about our estimated net proved reserves at December
31, 2005 and 2004. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd., an independent petroleum engineering firm
in Dallas, Texas, prepared the estimates of proved developed reserves, proved undeveloped reserves
and discounted present value (pretax). We prepared the estimate of standardized measure of proved
reserves in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities. No reserve reports have been
provided to any governmental agencies.

8

Table of Contents   

9

Table of Contents   

(1) 
       
     The discounted present value represents the discounted future cash flows attributable to our
proved oil and natural gas reserves before income tax, discounted at 10%. Although it is a
non-GAAP measure, we believe that the presentation of the discounted present value is relevant and
useful to our investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to
our proved reserves prior to taking into account corporate future income taxes and our current tax
structure. We use this measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to our
oil and natural gas properties. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows
represents the present value of future cash flows attributable to our proved oil and natural gas
reserves after income tax, discounted at 10%. 

Reserves were estimated using oil and natural gas prices and production and development costs
in effect on December 31, 2005 and 2004, without escalation. The reserves were determined using
both volumetric and production performance methods. Proved reserves are those estimated
quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years
from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.  THE VALUES REPORTED MAY NOT
NECESSARILY REFLECT THE FAIR MARKET VALUE OF THE RESERVES. 

Productive Wells 

The following table shows our gross and net interests in productive oil and natural gas wells
as of December 31, 2005. Productive wells include wells currently producing or capable of
production.

(1) 
       
      Gross  refers to wells in which we have a working-interest. 

(2) 
       
      Net  refers to the aggregate of our percentage working interest in gross wells before
royalties, before or after payout, as appropriate. 

Acreage 

The following table shows the developed and undeveloped acreage attributable to our ownership
as of December 31, 2005.

Undeveloped acreage includes only those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or
completed to permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of
whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves.

Drilling Activity 

The following table shows our drilling activities on a gross and net basis for the years ended
2005, 2004 and 2003.

10

Table of Contents   

(1) 
       
      Gross  is the number of wells in which we have a working interest. 

(2) 
       
      Net  is the aggregate obtained by multiplying each gross well by our after payout percentage
working interest. 

(3) 
       
      Gas  means natural gas wells that are either currently producing or are capable of
production. 

(4) 
       
      Oil  means producing oil wells. 

(5) 
       
      Abandoned  means wells that were dry when drilled and were abandoned without production
casing being run. 

(6) 
       
      Oil  means oil shows were found and temporarily suspended awaiting further work.  

(7) 
       
      Gas  means gas flow was tested and temporarily suspended awaiting further work. 

(8) 
       
     Includes two wells that are replacement wells for the wells lost when the production
structure collapsed. 

Net Production, Unit Prices And Costs 

The following table summarizes our oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids production, net of
royalties, for the periods indicated. It also summarizes calculations of our total average unit
sales prices and unit costs.

11

Table of Contents   

12

Table of Contents   

(1) 
       
     This column sets forth production and other information for the year ended December 31, 2003,
as if the sale of U. S. mineral royalty assets had taken on January 1, 2003. 

Office Lease 

We occupy 16,327 square feet of office space at 4809 Cole Avenue, Suite 108, Dallas, Texas
75205 under a lease from SVP Cole, L.P. We also occupy 3,218 square feet of office space Paris,
France, approximately 9,000 square feet of office in Ankara, Turkey, 3,767 square feet in
Bucharest, Romania and 2,896 square feet of office space in Budapest, Hungary. Total rental
expense for 2005 was approximately $480,000

Markets and Competition 

In France, we currently sell all of our oil production to Elf Antar France S.A., the largest
purchaser in the area. This production is shipped by truck to a nearby Elf refinery. The oil also
can be transported to refineries on the north coast of France via pipeline. Production in Turkey is
sold to refineries in the southern part of the country.

Our domestic oil and natural gas production is sold to various purchasers typically in the
areas where the oil or natural gas is produced. Generally, we do not refine or process any of the
oil and natural gas we produce. We are currently able to sell, under contract or in the spot market
through the operator, substantially all of the oil and the natural gas we are capable of producing
at current market prices. Most of our oil and natural gas is sold under short-term contracts or
contracts providing for periodic adjustments or in the spot market; therefore, our revenue streams
are highly sensitive to changes in current market prices. Our natural gas is sold to pipeline
companies rather than end users.

The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We encounter strong competition from
other independent operators and from major oil companies in acquiring properties, contracting for
drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. Many of these competitors have financial and
technical resources and staffs substantially larger than those available to us. As a result, our
competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases, and they may pay more to evaluate, bid
for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel
resources permit us to do.

13

Table of Contents   

We also are affected by competition for drilling rigs and the availability of tubular goods
and certain other equipment. While the oil and natural gas industry has experienced shortages of
drilling rigs and equipment, pipe and personnel in the past, we are not presently experiencing any
shortages and do not foresee any such shortages in the near future; however, we are unable to
predict how long current market conditions will continue.

Competition for attractive oil and natural gas producing properties, undeveloped leases and
drilling rights is also strong, and we can give no assurance we will be able to compete
satisfactorily in acquiring properties. Many major oil companies have publicly indicated their
decision to focus on overseas activities. We cannot ensure we will be successful in acquiring any
such properties.

Government Regulation 

International 

General 

Our current international exploration activities are conducted in Turkey, Hungary, Romania and
France. Such activities are affected in varying degrees by political stability and government
regulations relating to foreign investment and the oil and natural gas industry. Changes in these regulations or shifts in
political attitudes are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. Operations may be
affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production,
price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental legislation
and mine safety.

Government Regulation 

Our current or future operations, including exploration and development activities on our
properties, require permits from various governmental authorities, and such operations are and will
be governed by laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes,
labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental
protection and other matters. Compliance with these requirements may prove to be difficult and
expensive. See  Item 1A. Risk Factors  for further information regarding international government
regulation.

Permits and License 

In order to carry out exploration and development of mineral interests or to place these into
commercial production, we may require certain licenses and permits from various governmental
authorities. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and
permits that may be required. In addition, such licenses and permits are subject to change and
there can be no assurances that any application to renew any existing licenses or permits will be
approved. See  Item 1A. Risk Factors  for further information regarding our foreign permits and
licenses.

Repatriation of Earnings 

Currently, there are no restrictions on the repatriation of earnings or capital to foreign
entities from France, Turkey, Romania or Hungary. However, there can be no assurance that any such
restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital from the aforementioned countries or any other
country where we may invest will not be imposed in the future.

Environmental 

The oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive and varying environmental regulations
in each of the jurisdictions in which we may operate. Environmental regulations establish standards
respecting health, safety and environmental matters and place restrictions and prohibitions on
emissions of various substances produced concurrently with oil and natural gas. These regulations
can have an impact on the selection of drilling locations and facilities, potentially resulting in
increased capital expenditures. In addition, environmental legislation may require

14

Table of Contents   

those wells and production facilities to be abandoned and sites reclaimed to the satisfaction of local authorities.
We are committed to complying with environmental and operation legislation wherever we operate.

Domestic 

General 

The availability of a ready market for oil and natural gas production depends upon numerous
factors beyond our control. These factors include state and federal regulation of oil and natural
gas production and transportation, as well as regulations governing environmental quality and
pollution control, state limits on allowable rates of production by a well or proration unit, the
amount of oil and natural gas available for sale, the availability of adequate pipeline and other
transportation and processing facilities and the marketing of competitive fuels. For example, a
productive natural gas well may be  shut-in  due to an oversupply of natural gas or lack of an
available natural gas pipeline in the areas in which we may conduct operations. State and federal
regulations generally are
intended to prevent waste of oil and natural gas, protect rights to produce oil and natural
gas between owners in a common reservoir, control the amount of oil and natural gas produced by
assigning allowable rates of production, and control contamination of the environment. Pipelines
and natural gas plants also are subject to the jurisdiction of various federal, state and local
agencies.

Our natural gas sales are affected by the availability, terms and costs of transportation. The
rates, terms and conditions applicable to the interstate transportation of natural gas by pipelines
are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ) under the Natural Gas Act
( NGA ), as well as under Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act ( NGPA ). Since 1985, the FERC
has implemented regulations intended to increase competition within the natural gas industry by
making natural gas transportation more accessible to natural gas buyers and sellers on an
open-access, nondiscriminatory basis. The FERC has announced several important
transportation-related policy statements and rule changes, including a statement of policy and
final rule issued February 25, 2000, concerning alternatives to its traditional cost-of-service
rate-making methodology to establish the rates interstate pipelines may charge for their services.
The final rule revises FERC s pricing policy and current regulatory framework to improve the
efficiency of the market and further enhance competition in natural gas markets.

Our oil sales also are affected by the availability, terms and costs of transportation. The
rates, terms, and conditions applicable to the interstate transportation of oil by pipelines are
regulated by the FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act. The FERC has implemented a simplified and
generally applicable rate-making methodology for interstate oil pipelines to fulfill the
requirements of Title XVIII of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 that includes an indexing system to
establish ceilings on interstate oil pipeline rates.

We conduct operations on federal, state or Indian oil and natural gas leases. Such operations
must comply with numerous regulatory restrictions, including various nondiscrimination statutes,
royalty and related valuation requirements, and certain of such operations must be conducted
pursuant to certain on-site security regulations and other appropriate permits issued by the Bureau
of Land Management ( BLM ).

The Mineral Leasing Act of 1920 (the  Mineral Act ) prohibits direct or indirect ownership of
any interest in federal onshore oil and natural gas leases by a foreign citizen of a country that
denies  similar or like privileges  to citizens of the United States. Such restrictions on citizens
of a  nonreciprocal  country include ownership or holding or controlling stock in a corporation
that holds a federal onshore oil and natural gas lease. If this restriction is violated, the
corporation s lease can be canceled in a proceeding instituted by the United States Attorney
General. Although the regulations of the BLM (which administers the Mineral Act) provide for agency
designations of nonreciprocal countries, there are presently no such designations in effect. We own
interests in federal onshore oil and natural gas leases. It is possible that some of our
stockholders may be citizens of foreign countries, which at some time in the future might be
determined to be nonreciprocal under the Mineral Act.

The pipelines we use to gather and transport our oil and natural gas may be subject to
regulation by the Department of Transportation ( DOT ) under the Hazardous Liquids Pipeline Safety
Act of 1979, as amended ( HLPSA ). The HLPSA governs the design, installation, testing,
construction, operation, replacement and management of pipeline facilities. Where applicable, the
HLPSA requires us and other pipeline operators to comply

15

Table of Contents   

with regulations issued pursuant to HLPSA that are designed to permit access to and allow copying of records and to make certain reports
available and provide information as required by the Secretary of Transportation.

The Pipeline Safety Act of 1992 (the  Pipeline Safety Act ) amends the HLPSA in several
important respects. The Pipeline Safety Act requires the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration ( PHMSA ) of DOT to consider environmental impacts, as well as its traditional
public safety mandate, when developing pipeline safety regulations. In addition, the Pipeline
Safety Act mandates the establishment by DOT of pipeline operator qualification rules requiring
minimum training requirements for operators, and requires that pipeline operators provide maps and
records to PHMSA. It also authorizes PHMSA to require certain pipeline modifications as well as
operational and maintenance changes. We believe our pipelines are in substantial compliance with
the HLPSA and the Pipeline Safety Act and their regulations and comparable state laws and regulations where
such laws and regulations are applicable. However, we could incur significant expenses if new or
additional safety measures are required.

U.S. Federal and State Taxation 

Federal and state governments may propose tax initiatives that affect us. We are unable to
determine what effect, if any, future proposals would have on product demand or our results of
operations.

U.S. Environmental Regulation 

Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas, including operation of
saltwater injection and disposal wells, are subject to various federal, state and local
environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations can increase the costs of planning,
designing, installing and operating oil and natural gas wells. Our domestic activities are subject
to a variety of environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to:

Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA); 

Clean Water Act (CWA); 

Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA); 

Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); 

Clean Air Act (CAA); and 

Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA). 

Our domestic activities also are controlled by state regulations promulgated under comparable
state statutes. We also are subject to regulations governing the handling, transportation, storage
and disposal of naturally occurring radioactive materials that are found in our oil and natural gas
operations. Civil and criminal fines and penalties may be imposed for noncompliance with these
environmental laws and regulations. Additionally, these laws and regulations require the
acquisition of permits or other governmental authorizations before undertaking certain activities,
limit or prohibit other activities due to protected areas or species, can impose certain
substantial liabilities for the cleanup of pollution, impose certain reporting requirements, and
can require substantial expenditures for compliance.

Under OPA and CWA, our release of oil and hazardous substances into or upon waters of the
United States, adjoining shore lines and wetlands and offshore areas could result in our being held
responsible for the (1) costs of remediating a release, (2) administrative and civil penalties
and/or criminal fines, (3) OPA specified damages such as loss of use and (4) natural resource
damages. The extent of liability could be extensive depending upon the circumstances of the
release. Liability can be joint and several and without regard to fault. The CWA also may impose
permitting requirements for certain discharges of pollutants and requirements to develop Spill
Prevention Control and Countermeasure Plans and Facility Response Plans to address potential
discharges of oil into or upon waters of the United States and adjoining shorelines.

CERCLA and comparable state statutes, also known as Superfund laws, can impose joint, several
and retroactive liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on
specified classes of persons for the release of a  hazardous substance  into the environment. In
practice, clean-up costs are usually allocated among various responsible parties. Liability can
arise from conditions on properties where operations are conducted and/or from conditions at
third-party disposal facilities where wastes from operations were sent. Although CERCLA, as

16

Table of Contents   

amended, currently exempts petroleum (including oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids) from the
definition of hazardous substance, some similar state statutes do not provide such an exemption.
Additionally, our operations may involve the use or handling of other materials that may be
classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA and similar state statutes. We cannot assure
investors that the exemption will be preserved in any future amendments of the Act. Such amendments
could have a significant impact on our costs or operations.

RCRA and comparable state and local programs impose requirements on the management, including
treatment, storage and disposal, of both hazardous and nonhazardous solid wastes. Although we
believe we have utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry
at the time, hydrocarbons or other solid wastes may have been disposed or released on or under the
properties we own or lease or on or under locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal.
In addition, many of these properties have been owned or operated by third parties. We have not had
control over such parties  treatment of hydrocarbons or other solid wastes and the manner in which
such substances may have been disposed or released. We generate hazardous and nonhazardous solid
waste in our routine operations. From time to time, proposals have been made that would reclassify
certain oil and natural gas wastes, including wastes generated during pipeline, drilling and
production operations, as  hazardous wastes  under RCRA, which would make these solid wastes
subject to much more stringent handling, transportation, storage, disposal and clean-up
requirements. Adoption of these proposals could have a significant impact on our operating costs.
While state laws vary on this issue, state initiatives to further regulate oil and natural gas
wastes could have a similar impact on our operations.

Oil and natural gas exploration and production, and possibly other activities, have been
conducted at the majority of our properties by previous owners and operators. Materials from these
operations remain on some of the properties and in some instances require remediation. In some
instances we have agreed to indemnify the sellers of producing properties from whom we have
acquired reserves against certain liabilities for environmental claims associated with the
properties. We do not believe the costs to be incurred by us for compliance and remediating
previously or currently owned or operated properties will be material, but we cannot guarantee that
potential costs would not result in material expenditures.

If in the course of our routine oil and natural gas operations, surface spills and leaks,
including casing leaks of oil or other materials occur, we may incur penalties and costs for waste
handling, remediation and third-party actions for damages. Moreover, we are able to directly
control the operations of only the wells that we operate. Notwithstanding our lack of control over
wells owned by us but operated by others, the failure of the operator to comply with applicable
environmental regulations may, in certain circumstances, be attributable to us and may create legal
liabilities for us.

We do not anticipate that we will be required in the near future to expend amounts that are
material in relation to our total capital expenditures program by reason of environmental laws and
regulations, but inasmuch as these laws and regulations are frequently changed and interpreted, we
are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the extent of liability risks. We are
unable to assure investors that more stringent laws and regulations protecting the environment will
not be adopted or that we will not incur material expenses in complying with environmental laws and
regulations in the future. If substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities are
incurred, the payment of such claims may reduce or eliminate the funds available for project
investment or result in loss of our properties. Although we maintain insurance coverage we consider
to be customary in the industry, we are not fully insured against all of these risks, either
because insurance is not available or because of high premium costs. Accordingly, we may be subject
to liability or may lose substantial portions of properties due to hazards that cannot be insured
against or have not been insured against due to prohibitive premium costs or for other reasons. The
imposition of any of these liabilities or compliance obligations on us may have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

OSHA and Other Regulations 

We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act ( OSHA )
and comparable state statutes. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community
right-to-know regulations under the Title III of CERCLA and similar state statutes require us to
organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations.
We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other
OSHA and comparable requirements.

17

Table of Contents   

Employees 

As of March 24, 2006, we employed 67 full-time employees. None of our employees are
represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not
experienced any strikes or work stoppages due to labor problems, and we have good relations with
our employees. As needed, we also utilize the services of independent consultants on a contract
basis.

Segment Reporting 

See Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information by
segment.

Internet Address/Availability of Reports 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act are made available free of charge on our website at  http://www.toreador.net  as
soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or otherwise
furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Glossary Of Selected Oil and Natural Gas Terms 

3D  or  3D SEISMIC.  An exploration method of sending energy waves or sound waves into the
earth and recording the wave reflections to indicate the type, size, shape, and depth of subsurface
rock formations. 3D seismic provides three-dimensional pictures.

Bbl.  One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used herein in reference to
crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.

BOE.  Barrels of oil equivalent. BTU equivalent of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural
gas which is equal to the BTU equivalent of one barrel of oil.

BTU.  British Thermal Unit.

DEVELOPMENT WELL  A well drilled within the proved boundaries of an oil or natural gas
reservoir with the intention of completing the stratigraphic horizon known to be productive.

DISCOUNTED PRESENT VALUE.  The present value of proved reserves is an estimate of the
discounted future net cash flows from each property at the specified date, or as otherwise
indicated. Net cash flow is defined as net revenues, after deducting production and ad valorem
taxes, less future capital costs and operating expenses, but before deducting federal income taxes.
The future net cash flows have been discounted at an annual rate of 10% to determine their  present
value.  The present value is shown to indicate the effect of time on the value of the revenue
stream and should not be construed as being the fair market value of the properties. In accordance
with Securities and Exchange Commission rules, estimates have been made using constant oil and
natural gas prices and operating costs at the specified date, or as otherwise indicated.

DRY HOLE.  A development or exploratory well found to be incapable of producing either oil or
natural gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or natural gas well.

EXPLORATORY WELL  A well drilled to find and produce oil or natural gas in an unproved area,
to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or natural gas in
another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.

GROSS ACRES  or  GROSS WELLS.  The total number of acres or wells, as the case may be, in
which a working or any type of royalty interest is owned.

MBbl.  One thousand Bbls.

18

Table of Contents   

MBOE.  One thousand BOE.

Mcf.  One thousand cubic feet of natural gas.

MMBOE.  One million BOE.

NET ACRES.  The sum of the fractional working or any type of royalty interests owned in gross
acres.

PERMIT.  An area onshore or offshore that comprises a contiguous acreage, or leasehold,
position on which an operator drills exploratory and/or development wells. Sometimes designated as
a  lease  or  block. 

PRODUCING WELL  or  PRODUCTIVE WELL. A well that is capable of producing oil or natural gas
in economic quantities.

PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVES.  The oil and natural gas reserves that can be expected to be
recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Additional oil and
natural gas expected to be obtained through the application of fluid injection or other improved
recovery techniques for supplementing the natural forces and mechanisms of primary recovery should
be included as  proved developed reserves  only after testing by a pilot project or after the
operation of an installed program has confirmed through production response that increased recovery
will be achieved.

PROVED RESERVES.  The estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids
that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in
future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.

PROVED UNDEVELOPED RESERVES.  The oil and natural gas reserves that are expected to be
recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major
expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage are limited to those
drilling units offsetting productive units that are reasonably certain of production when drilled.
Proved reserves for other undrilled units can be claimed only where it can be demonstrated with
certainty that there is continuity of production from the existing productive formation. Under no
circumstances should estimates for proved undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for
which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery techniques is contemplated,
unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual tests in the area and in the same
reservoir.

ROYALTY INTEREST.  An interest in an oil and natural gas property entitling the owner to a
share of oil and natural gas production free of production costs.

STANDARDIZED MEASURE.  Under the Standardized Measure, future cash flows are estimated by
applying year-end prices, adjusted for fixed and determinable changes, to the estimated future
production of year-end proved reserves. Future cash inflows are reduced by estimated future
production and development costs based on period-end costs to determine pretax cash inflows. Future
income taxes are computed by applying the statutory tax rate to the excess inflows over a company s
tax basis in the associated properties.

Tax credits, net operating loss carryforwards and permanent differences also are considered in
the future tax calculation. Future net cash inflows after income taxes are discounted using a 10%
annual discount rate to arrive at the Standardized Measure.

UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE.  Lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a
point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless
of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.

WORKING INTEREST.  The operating interest (not necessarily as operator) that gives the owner
the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and a share of
production, subject to all royalties, overriding royalties and other burdens, and to all
exploration, development and operational costs including all risks in connection therewith.

19

Table of Contents   

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Our growth depends on our ability to obtain additional capital. 

Effectuation of our business strategy will require substantial capital expenditures. In order
to fund our future growth, we will need to obtain additional capital. The amount and timing of our
future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including:

drilling results and costs; 

transportation costs; 

equipment costs and availability; 

marketing expenses; 

oil and natural gas prices; 

requirements and commitments under existing permits; 

staffing levels and competitive conditions; and 

any purchases or dispositions of assets. 

Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of our operations and the
status of various capital and industry markets at the time we seek such capital. Our failure or
inability to obtain any required additional financing on favorable terms could materially and
adversely affect our growth, cash flow and earnings, including our ability to meet our capital
expenditures budget.

We retired our senior secured credit facilities in January 2004. Although we have a $25
million reserve-based credit facility secured by our U.S. assets and a $15 million reserve-based
credit facility secured by our French assets, our ability to borrow under these facilities is
limited because of our borrowing base restrictions. At December 31, 2005, there was $5 million
outstanding under the $15 million facility. At December 31, 2005, there were no amounts
outstanding under the $25 million facility. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $3 million in
additional borrowings was available under the $15 million facility. As of December 31, 2005,
approximately $3.3 million in additional borrowings was available under the $25 million facility.

No assurance can be given that we will have the needed additional capital to fund our growth
under these facilities or from existing operations.

The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to grow. 

Our $15 million facility restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness because of
financial ratios which we must meet. In addition, our $25 million facility restricts the ability of
the borrowers, two of our domestic subsidiaries, to incur additional indebtedness because of
financial ratios which we must meet.

Thus, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to grow our business and we may lose
opportunities to acquire interests in oil and natural gas properties or related businesses because
of our inability to fund such growth.

Our ability to comply with the restrictions and covenants of our indebtedness in the future is
uncertain and is affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or
circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants
could result in a default, which could permit the lender to accelerate repayments and foreclose on
the collateral securing the indebtedness.

Any additional future indebtedness may limit our financial and operating flexibility in a
manner similar to and potentially more restrictive than the facilities discussed above.

In addition, our pursuit of capital could result in the issuance of potentially dilutive
equity securities.

Acquisition prospects may be difficult to assess and may pose additional risks to our
operations. 

On a consistent basis, we evaluate and, where appropriate, pursue acquisition opportunities on
terms we consider favorable. In particular, we pursue acquisitions of businesses or interests that
will complement and allow us

20

Table of Contents   

to expand our exploration activities; however, currently, we have no
binding commitments related to any acquisitions. The successful acquisition of interests in oil and
natural gas properties requires an assessment of:

recoverable reserves; 

exploration potential; 

future oil and natural gas prices; 

operating costs; 

potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors; and 

permitting and other environmental authorizations required for our operations. 

In connection with such an assessment, we would expect to perform a review of the subject
properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the
resulting conclusions are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain, and such an
assessment may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit a
buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and
deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every platform or well, and structural and
environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. As a
result, acquired properties may prove to be worth less than we pay for them.

Future acquisitions could pose numerous additional risks to our operations and financial
results, including:

problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel or technologies; 

unanticipated costs; 

diversion of resources and management attention from our core business; 

entry into regions or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and 

potential loss of key employees, particularly those of any acquired organization. 

Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have
greater financial, technological and other resources than we do. 

We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas exploration, development,
production, leasing, and acquisition activities. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized
by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services
using new technologies. We face intense competition from independent, technology-driven companies
as well as from both major and other independent oil and natural gas companies in each of the
following areas:

seeking to acquire desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; 

marketing our oil and natural gas production; 

integrating new technologies; and 

seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise necessary to develop and operate our properties. 

Many of our competitors have financial, technological and other resources substantially
greater than ours, and some of them are fully integrated oil and natural gas companies. These
companies may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas
properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties
and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Further, these companies may enjoy
technological advantages and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can.
Our ability to develop and exploit our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional
properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement
advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this
highly competitive environment.

Our business exposes us to liability and extensive regulation on environmental matters. 

Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations
controlling the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection
of the environment. Such laws and regulations not only expose us to liability for our own
negligence, but may also expose us to liability for the conduct of others or for our actions that
were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. We may incur
significant costs as a result of environmental accidents, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks,

21

Table of Contents   

ruptures, or discharges of hazardous materials into the environment, including clean-up costs and
fines or penalties. Additionally, we may incur significant costs in order to comply with
environmental laws and regulations and may be forced to pay fines or penalties if we do not comply.

A significant portion of our operations is conducted in Turkey, Hungary, Romania and France.
Therefore, we are subject to political and economic risks and other uncertainties. 

We have international operations and are subject to the following foreign issues and
uncertainties that can affect our operations adversely:

the risk of expropriation, nationalization, war, revolution, border disputes,
renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, and import, export and
transportation regulations and tariffs; 

taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; 

exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out
of foreign government sovereignty over international operations; 

laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and
investment; 

the possibility of being subjected to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign
courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject foreign
persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States; and 

the possibility of restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital from
foreign countries. 

Terrorist activities may adversely affect our business. 

Terrorist activities, including events similar to those of September 11, 2001, or armed
conflict involving the United States or any other country in which we hold interests, may adversely
affect our business activities and financial condition. If events of this nature occur and persist,
the resulting political and social instability could adversely affect prevailing oil and natural
gas prices and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, oil and natural gas production
facilities, transportation systems and storage facilities could be direct targets of terrorist
attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our
operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs associated with insurance and other security measures may
increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to
obtain, if available at all.

We are highly dependent upon key personnel. 

Our continued success is dependent to a significant degree upon the services of our executive
officers and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel who are experienced in the
various phases of our business. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or
are unable to attract and retain qualified geologists, geophysicists and other technical personnel,
our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market value of our common stock
could be materially adversely affected. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of our
executive officers.

Our marketing of oil and natural gas production principally depends upon facilities operated
by others, and these operations may change and have a material adverse effect on our marketing. 

Our marketing of oil and natural gas production principally depends upon facilities operated
by others. The operations of those facilities may change and have a material adverse effect on our
marketing of oil and natural gas production. In addition, we rely upon third parties to operate
many of our properties and may have no control over the timing, extent and cost of development and
operations. As a result of these third-party operations, we cannot control the timing and volumes
of production. Transportation space on the gathering systems and pipelines we utilize is
occasionally limited or unavailable due to repairs or improvements to facilities or due to space
being utilized by other companies that have priority transportation agreements. Our access to
transportation options also can be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation and foreign
regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and
changes in supply and demand. These factors and the availability of markets are beyond our control.
If market factors dramatically change, the financial impact on our revenues could be substantial
and could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas.

22

Table of Contents   

We may not be able to renew our permits or obtain new ones. 

We do not hold title to properties in Turkey, Hungary, Romania and France, but have
exploration and exploitation permits granted by these countries  respective governments. There can
be no assurance that we will be able to renew any of these permits when they expire, convert
exploration permits into exploitation permits or obtain additional permits in the future.

Since we do not hold title to our foreign properties but rather hold exploitation and
exploration permits granted to us by the applicable foreign governments, the Securities and
Exchange Commission may require that a certain portion of proved reserves associated with these
permits not be included in our proved reserves. 

Rather than holding title to our foreign properties, we hold exploitation and exploration
permits that have been granted to us for a specific time period by the applicable foreign
governments. We must apply to have these permits renewed and extended in order to continue our
exploration and development rights. Although we have always reported our proved reserves assuming
that the permits will be extended in due course, the Securities and Exchange Commission may take
the view that our ability to renew and extend our permits past their current expiration dates is
not sufficiently certain such that we should not include the reserves that may be produced post
expiration in our total proved reserves. Although we have previously been able to provide support
to the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the likelihood of extension, no assurance can
be given that the Securities and Exchange Commission will allow us to continue to include these
additional reserves in our proved reserves.

Any future hedging activities may require us to make significant payments that are not offset
by sales of production and may prevent us from benefiting from increases in oil or natural gas
prices. 

Although we are not currently a party to a hedging transaction, occasionally we may reduce our
exposure to the volatility of oil and natural gas prices by hedging a portion of our production. In
a typical hedge transaction, we will have the right to receive from the counterparty to the hedge the excess of the fixed price
specified in the hedge over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity
hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, we will be required to pay the counterparty
this difference multiplied by the quantity hedged. In such case, we will be required to pay the
difference regardless of whether we have sufficient production to cover the quantities specified in
the hedge. Significant reductions in production at times when the floating price exceeds the fixed
price could require us to make payments under the hedge agreements even though such payments are
not offset by sales of production. Hedging also could prevent us from receiving the full advantage
of increases in oil or natural gas prices above the fixed amount specified in the hedge.

Our operations are subject to currency fluctuation risks. 

We currently have operations involving the U.S. dollar, Euro, New Turkish Lira, Forint and
Romanian Lei. We are subject to fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the
Euro, New Turkish Lira, Forint and Romanian Lei respectively. These fluctuations may adversely
affect our results of operations.

We cannot rely on the results of our non-core assets in the future. 

We have made equity investments in technology-related businesses that, although related to the
energy industry, are not part of our core strategy. Although we have obtained a return of some of
our initial investments and have received earnings from these investments during various periods,
there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any future returns from these investments.
Additionally, these investments are subject to the risks associated generally with
technology-related industries, including obsolescence, competition, concentration and the inability
to obtain the necessary capital for future growth.

Risks Related To Our Industry 

A decline in oil and natural gas prices will have an adverse impact on our operations. 

Our revenues, cash flows and profitability are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices
for oil and natural gas. In recent years, oil and natural gas prices and, therefore, the level of
drilling, exploration, development and

23

Table of Contents   

production, have been extremely volatile. Any significant or
extended decline in oil or natural gas prices will have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations and could impair access to future sources of capital.
Volatility in the oil and natural gas industry results from numerous factors over which we have no
control, including:

the level of oil and natural gas prices, expectations about future oil and
natural gas prices and the ability of international cartels to set and maintain
production levels and prices; 

the cost of exploring for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas; 

the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; 

domestic and foreign governmental regulation; 

the level and price of foreign oil and natural gas transportation; 

available pipeline and other oil and natural gas transportation capacity; 

weather conditions; 

international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions; 

the level of consumer demand; 

the price and the availability of alternative fuels; 

the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and 

the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise capital. 

Significant declines in oil and natural gas prices for an extended period may:

impair our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned
capital expenditures and results of operations; 

reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; 

cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; 

reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flow; and 

reduce the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. 

No assurance can be given that current levels of oil and natural gas prices will continue. We
expect oil and natural gas prices, as well as the oil and natural gas industry generally, to
continue to be volatile.

Continued financial success depends on our ability to replace our reserves in the future. 

Our future success as an oil and natural gas producer depends upon our ability to find,
develop and acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are profitable. Oil and natural
gas are depleting assets, and production from oil and natural gas from properties declines as
reserves are depleted with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. If we are
unable to conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing
proved reserves, our proved reserves generally will decline as the reserves are produced, and our
level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. Replacing our reserves through
exploration or development activities or acquisitions will require significant capital which may
not be available to us.

We face numerous risks in finding commercially productive oil and natural gas reservoirs. 

Our drilling will involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive
oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. We may incur significant expenditures for the
identification and acquisition of properties and for the drilling and completion of wells. The cost
of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a
variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in
formations, equipment failures or accidents, weather conditions and shortages or delays in the
delivery of equipment.

In addition, any use by us of 3D seismic and other advanced technology to explore for oil and
natural gas requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling methodologies.
While we use advanced technology in our operations, this technology does not allow us to know
conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or economically
producible.

24

Table of Contents   

In addition, as a  successful efforts  company, we account for unsuccessful exploration
efforts, i.e., the drilling of  dry holes,  as an expense of operations which impacts our earnings.
Significant expensed exploration charges in any period would materially adversely affect our
earnings for that period and could cause our earnings to be volatile from period to period.

We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks. 

As noted by the fact that in 2005 we incurred two separate incidents, in offshore Turkey in
the Black Sea, which resulted in the loss of two caissons and three wells, our operations are
subject to the risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, including the risks of:

fire, explosions and blowouts; 

pipe failure; 

abnormally pressured formations; and 

environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or
discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment (including
groundwater contamination). 

These events may result in substantial losses to us from:

injury or loss of life; 

severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; 

pollution or other environmental damage; 

clean-up responsibilities; 

regulatory investigation; 

penalties and suspension of operations; or 

attorney s fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. 

As is customary in our industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these
risks. We cannot assure investors that our insurance will be adequate to cover these losses or
liabilities. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from
uninsured or underinsured events may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
operations.

We carry well control insurance for our drilling operations. Our coverage includes blowout
protection and liability protection on domestic and international wells.

The producing wells in which we have an interest occasionally experience reduced or terminated
production. These curtailments can result from mechanical failures, contract terms, pipeline and
processing plant interruptions, market conditions and weather conditions. These curtailments can
last from a few days to many months.

Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. 

Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could
materially affect the quantities and present values of our reserves. The process of estimating
natural gas and oil reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including
assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or
assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in
this annual report. In order to prepare these estimates, we must project production rates and
timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical,
production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The
process also requires economic assumptions relating to matters such as oil and natural gas prices,
drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.

Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development
expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most
likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated
quantities and pre-tax net present value of reserves shown in this annual report. In addition, we
may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of

25

Table of Contents   

exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our
control.

Investors should not assume that the pre-tax net present value of our proved reserves referred
to in this annual report is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.
We base the pre-tax net present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices
and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices, costs, and the volume of produced
reserves may differ materially from those used in the pre-tax net present value estimate.

Risks Related To Our Common Stock and Notes 

Our stock s public trading price has been volatile, which may depress the trading price of our
common stock. 

Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. Overall market conditions, in addition
to other risks and uncertainties described in this  Risk Factors  section and elsewhere in this
annual report, may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We participate in a price
sensitive industry, which often results in significant volatility in the market price of common
stock irrespective of company performance. As a result, our high and low closing stock prices for
the twelve months ended March 24, 2006 were $37.25 and $14.80 respectively. Fluctuations in the
price of our common stock may be exacerbated by conditions in the energy and oil and natural gas
industries or conditions in the financial markets generally. Because the notes are convertible
into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate equal to 23.3596 shares of common stock per
$1,000 principal amount of notes, volatility in the price of our common stock may depress the
trading price of the notes. The risk of volatility and depressed prices of our common stock also
applies to holders who receive shares of common stock upon conversion of their notes.

Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol  TRGL.  However,
daily trading volumes for our common stock are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared
to many other publicly traded securities. It may be difficult for investors to sell their shares of
common stock in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, and the price of our
common stock may, therefore, be volatile.

Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact
on the market price of our common stock, including, among other things:

current events affecting the political, economic and social situation in
the United States and other countries where we operate; 

trends in our industry and the markets in which we operate; 

litigation involving or affecting us; 

changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; 

acquisitions and financings by us or our competitors; 

quarterly variations in operating results; 

volatility in exchange rates between the US dollar and the currencies of
the foreign countries in which we operate; 

the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors
may consider to be comparable; and 

purchases or sales of blocks of our securities. 

In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume
fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of
individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common
stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our
common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the
market price of our common stock to decline. Furthermore, stockholders may initiate securities
class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to
incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management.

These factors, among others, could significantly depress the trading price of the notes and
the price of our common stock.

26

Table of Contents   

A large percentage of our common stock is owned by our officers and directors, and such
stockholders may control our business and affairs. 

At March 24, 2006, our officers and directors as a group beneficially owned approximately
22.08% of our common stock (including shares issuable upon exercise of stock options held by
officers and directors, upon conversion of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock held by
directors and affiliates of certain directors and upon conversion of the second amended and
restated convertible debenture held by an affiliate of a director). The officers and directors
control our business and affairs. Due to their large ownership percentage interest, they may be
able to remain entrenched in their positions.

We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. 

We currently intend to continue our policy of retaining earnings to finance the growth of our
business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the
foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our outstanding shares of preferred stock and the $15
million facility restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Because we do not
anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future, holders who convert their notes and
receive shares of our common stock will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading
price of our common stock appreciates, which we cannot assure.

The notes are unsecured and are subordinated to all of our existing and future secured
indebtedness. 

The notes are unsecured and subordinated in right of payment to all of our existing and future
secured indebtedness, to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness, and are effectively
subordinated to all liabilities of our subsidiaries, including trade payables. The indenture does
not restrict our ability to incur additional debt, including secured debt. As of December 31, 2005,
we had no secured indebtedness and our subsidiaries had $5 million of indebtedness and trade
payables of approximately $20 million that would effectively rank senior to the notes. Any amounts
borrowed under our credit facilities would effectively rank senior to the notes. Currently, we have
the ability to borrow approximately an additional $3 million under the $15 million credit facility
and approximately $3.3 million under the $25 million reserve-based credit facility secured by our
U.S. assets. In the event of our insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution
or winding up, we may not have sufficient assets to pay amounts due on any or all of the notes then
outstanding.

The notes are effectively subordinated to all liabilities of our subsidiaries. 

Substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. None of our
subsidiaries has guaranteed or otherwise become obligated with respect to the notes, and, as a
result, the notes are effectively subordinated to all liabilities and other obligations of our
subsidiaries. Accordingly, our right to receive assets from any of our subsidiaries upon their
liquidation or reorganization, and the right of holders of the notes to participate in those
assets, is effectively subordinated to claims of that subsidiary s creditors, including trade
creditors. Even if we were a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be
subordinate to any security interest in the assets of that entity and any indebtedness of that
entity senior to that held by us. Statutory, contractual or other restrictions may also limit our
subsidiaries  ability to pay dividends or make distributions, loans or advances to us. In
particular, because many of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States, there may be
significant tax and other legal restrictions on the ability of those non-U.S. entities to remit
money to us. For these reasons, we may not have access to any assets or cash flows of our
subsidiaries to make payments on the notes. Additionally, our subsidiaries might borrow funds under
our credit facilities, and any of these amounts would effectively rank senior to the notes.

The increase in the conversion rate applicable to the notes that holders convert in connection
with certain fundamental changes may not adequately compensate holders for the lost option time
value of their notes as a result of that fundamental change. 

If certain fundamental changes occur before October 1, 2010, we will under certain
circumstances increase the conversion rate applicable to certain holders. This increased conversion
rate will apply to holders that surrender their notes for conversion from, and including, the
effective date of such fundamental change until, and including, the

27

Table of Contents   

close of business on the business day immediately preceding the fundamental change repurchase date corresponding to such
fundamental change. The amount of the increase in the conversion rate depends on the date when the
fundamental change becomes effective and the applicable price described in this prospectus.

Although the increase in the conversion rate is designed to compensate holders for the lost
option time value of their notes as a result of the fundamental change, the increase in the
conversion rate is only an approximation of the lost value and may not adequately compensate
holders for the loss. In addition, holders will not be entitled to an increased conversion rate if:

the fundamental change occurs on or after October 1, 2010; 

the applicable price is greater than $75.00 per share or less than $32.93 per
share (in each case, subject to adjustment); or 

we elect, in the case of a  public acquirer fundamental change,  to change the
conversion right in lieu of increasing the conversion rate. 

Our ability to purchase the notes with cash at the investor s option or upon a fundamental
change, may be limited. 

Holders of the notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes for cash at
specific times and upon the occurrence of specific circumstances. We cannot assure holders that,
if required, we would have sufficient cash or other financial resources at that time or would be
able to arrange financing to pay the purchase price of the notes in cash. Our ability to purchase the notes in such circumstances may be limited by law, by
regulatory authorities, by the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness and by
indebtedness and agreements that we may enter into in the future, which may replace, supplement or
amend our existing or future indebtedness. In addition, statutory, contractual or other
restrictions may also limit our subsidiaries  ability to pay dividends or make distributions, loans or advances to us. In particular, because many of our subsidiaries are
located outside the United States, there may be significant tax and other legal restrictions on the
ability of those non-U.S. entities to remit money to us. For these reasons, we may not have access
to any assets or cash flows of our subsidiaries to make payments on the notes.

Future sales or issuances of common stock or the issuance of securities senior to our common
stock may depress the trading price of our common stock and the notes.

Any issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the
notes, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including holders who have received
shares upon conversion of their notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our
common stock and the notes. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons,
including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity,
to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options, or upon conversion
of preferred stock or debentures, or for other reasons. As of March 24, 2006, there were:

843,690 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options,
at a weighted average exercise price of $5.09 per share, of which options to purchase
618,390 shares were exercisable; 

102,890 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding
warrants, at a weighted average exercise price of $19.35 per share, of which 92,890 were
exercisable; 

450,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our Series A-1
Convertible Preferred Stock, at a conversion rate equal to 6.25 shares of common stock
per share of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock (subject to certain adjustments for
stock splits, stock dividends, mergers or assets distributions); 

28

Table of Contents   

100,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our second amended
and restated convertible debenture, at a conversion price of $6.75 per share of common
stock; and 

55,665 shares of our common stock available for future grant under our equity incentive
plan. 

The price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by
investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and
by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. The
hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the notes.

Our leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. 

Our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2005 was approximately $92 million
and represented approximately 41% of our total capitalization as of that date. In addition, the
indenture for the notes does not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness.

Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to investors, because:

it could affect our ability to satisfy our payment obligations under the notes; 

a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated
to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working
capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other
purposes; 

it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; 

it may impair our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged; 

it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and 

it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. 

Because we have made only limited covenants in the indenture for the notes, and the terms of
the notes do not provide protection against some types of important corporate events, these limited
covenants and protections against certain types of important corporate events may not protect
holders  investment. 

The indenture for the notes does not:

require us to maintain any financial ratios or specific levels of net worth,
revenues, income, cash flows or liquidity and, accordingly, does not protect holders of
the notes in the event that we experience significant adverse changes in our financial
condition or results of operations; 

limit our subsidiaries  ability to incur indebtedness which would effectively rank senior to the notes; 

limit our ability to incur indebtedness that is equal in right of payment to the notes; 

restrict our subsidiaries  ability to issue securities that would be senior to
the common stock of our subsidiaries held by us; 

restrict our ability to repurchase our securities; or 

29

Table of Contents   

restrict our ability to make investments or to pay dividends or make other
payments in respect of our common stock or other securities ranking junior to the notes. 

Furthermore, the indenture for the notes contains only limited protections in the event of a
change in control. We could engage in many types of transactions, such as certain acquisitions,
refinancings or recapitalizations, which could substantially affect our capital structure and the
value of the notes and our common stock but would not constitute a  fundamental change  that
permits holders to require us to repurchase their notes. For these reasons, potential holders
should not consider the covenants in the indenture or the repurchase feature of the notes as a
significant factor in evaluating whether to invest in the notes.

If an active and liquid trading market for the notes does not develop, the market price of the
notes may decline and investors may be unable to sell their notes. 

The notes are a new issue of securities for which there is no established trading market. We
do not intend to list the notes on any national securities exchange. Accordingly, we do not know
if an active trading market will develop for the notes. Even if a trading market for the notes
develops, the market may not be liquid. If an active trading market does not develop, investors may
be unable to resell their notes or may only be able to sell them at a substantial discount. Future trading prices of the notes will depend on many factors,
including our operating performance and financial condition, prevailing interest rates and the
market for similar securities.

Holders of notes are not entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock, but are
subject to all changes made with respect to our common stock. 

Holders of notes are not entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock (including,
without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our
common stock), but are subject to all changes affecting our common stock. Holders will have the
rights with respect to our common stock only when we deliver shares of common stock, if any, upon
conversion of the notes. For example, in the event that an amendment is proposed to our Restated
Certificate of Incorporation or bylaws requiring stockholder approval and the record date for
determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to the
delivery of common stock, if any, to holders, holders will not be entitled to vote on the
amendment, although holders will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences
or special rights of our common stock.

The conversion rate of the notes may not be adjusted for all dilutive events that may occur. 

We will adjust the conversion rate of the notes for certain events, including, among others:

the issuance of stock dividends on our common stock; 

the issuance of certain rights or warrants; 

certain subdivisions and combinations of our capital stock; 

the distribution of capital stock, indebtedness or assets; and 

certain tender or exchange offers. 

We will not adjust the conversion rate for other events, such as an issuance of common stock
for cash or in connection with an acquisition, which may adversely affect the trading price of the
notes or our common stock. If we engage in any of these types of transactions, the value of the
common stock into which the notes may be convertible may be diluted. There can be no assurance that
an event that adversely affects the value of the notes, but does not result in an adjustment to the
conversion rate, will not occur.

30

Table of Contents   

Provisions in our charter documents, the indenture for the notes and Delaware law could
discourage an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to
holders of our common stock or the notes. 

If a  change in control  (as defined in the indenture) occurs, holders of the notes will have
the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In the
event of certain  fundamental changes  (as defined in the indenture), we also may be required to
increase the conversion rate applicable to notes surrendered for conversion upon the fundamental
change. In addition, the indenture for the notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or
acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the
notes. These and other provisions, including the provisions of our charter documents and Delaware
law, could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be
beneficial to holders of our common stock or the notes.

Certain provisions of our charter documents may adversely impact our stockholders. 

Our charter documents provide our board of directors with the right to issue preferred stock
upon such terms and conditions as it deems to be our best interests. The terms of such preferred
stock may adversely impact the dividend and liquidation rights of the common stockholders without
the approval of the common stockholders.

Holders of notes may have to pay U.S. federal taxes if we adjust the conversion rate in
certain circumstances, even if the investor does not receive any cash. 

We will adjust the conversion rate of the notes for stock splits and combinations, stock
dividends, cash dividends and certain other events that affect our capital structure. If we adjust
the conversion rate, holders of the notes may be treated as having received a constructive
distribution from us, resulting in taxable income to holders of the notes for U.S. federal income
tax purposes, even though holders of the notes would not receive any cash in connection with the
conversion rate adjustment and even though holders of the notes might not exercise their conversion
right. In addition, non-U.S. holders of notes will, in certain circumstances, be deemed to have
received a distribution subject to U.S. federal withholding tax requirements.

ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

None.

ITEM 2. Properties (see Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties) 

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 

Turkish Registered Capital 

Under the existing Petroleum Law of Turkey, capital that is invested by foreign companies in
projects such as oil and natural gas exploration can be registered with the General Directorate of
Petroleum Affairs, thereby qualifying for protection against adverse changes in the exchange rate
between the time of the initial investment and the time such capital is repatriated out of Turkey.
Since 1997 the Turkish government has suspended such protection for repatriated capital. As the
holder of more than $50 million of registered capital, we have filed suit in Turkey to attempt to
restore the exchange rate protections afforded under the law. No amounts are accrued related to
this contingency. In March 2002, a lower level court ruled in favor of Toreador. The ruling was
subject to appeal that was heard in December 2002. The appellate court reversed the lower court s
ruling. All internal Turkish legal proceedings are exhausted and the rejection of the exchange
protection award is final. We have appealed the case to the European Court of Human Rights which
is a court recognized by Turkey. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.

31

Table of Contents   

Other 

From time to time, we are named as a defendant in other legal proceedings arising in the
normal course of business. In our opinion, the final judgment or settlement, if any, that may be
awarded with any suit or claim would not have a material adverse effect on our financial position.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended December 31,
2005.

PART II 

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters 

Common Stock 

Our shares of common stock, par value $.15625 per share, are traded on the Nasdaq National
Market System under the trading symbol  TRGL.  The following table sets forth the high and low sale
prices per share for the common stock for each quarterly period during the past two calendar years
as reported by Nasdaq National Market based upon quotations that reflect inter-dealer prices,
without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual
transactions.

As of March 24, 2006, there were 16,167,274 shares of common stock outstanding and held of
record by approximately 740 holders (inclusive of those brokerage firms, clearing houses, banks and
other nominee holders, holding common stock for clients, with all such nominees being considered as
one holder).

The closing price of the common stock on the Nasdaq National Market System on March 24, 2006
was $29.85.

Dividends on the common stock may be declared and paid out of funds legally available when and
as determined by our board of directors. Our board of directors plans to continue our policy of
holding and investing corporate funds on a conservative basis, retaining earnings to finance the
growth of our business. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock
in the foreseeable future. The terms of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock prohibit us from
paying dividends on the common stock without the approval of the holders of a majority of the then
outstanding shares of the Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock. In addition, the terms of the
$15.0 million credit facility limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock to twenty-five
percent (25%) of net profits (as defined in the facility agreement) less any amounts paid as
dividends on our preferred stock.

Dividends on our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock are paid on a quarterly basis per the
terms of such series. Dividends totaling $186,264, $360,000 and $139,549 were declared for the
years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 on the Series A-1
Convertible Preferred Stock. Cash dividends totaling $261,077, $285,155 and $153,549 were paid for
the years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, on the Series A-1
Convertible Preferred Stock. On December 31, 2004, 6,000 shares of Preferred Stock were converted
into 37,500 common shares. On February 22, 2005, 82,000 shares of the Series A-1 Convertible
Preferred Stock were exchanged into 532,664 common shares. Future dividends are anticipated to be

32

Table of Contents   

paid in cash only at a rate of $0.5625 per share of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock. On
December 31, 2005, there were 72,000 shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding.

During 2005, there were no equity securities issued pursuant to transactions exempt from the
registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, that were not disclosed
previously in Current Reports on Form 8-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.

During the fourth quarter 2005, we did not repurchase any of our registered equity securities.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data 

The following selected financial information (which is not covered by the independent
auditors  report) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the
notes thereto included in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

33

Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Certain of the matters discussed under the captions  Business and Properties,   Legal
Proceedings,   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations,  and elsewhere in this annual report may constitute  forward-looking  statements for
purposes of the Securities Act of 1933, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, as such, may
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results,
performance or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. When used in this report, the
words  anticipates,   estimates,   plans,   believes,   continues,   expects,   projections, 
 forecasts,   intends,   may,   might,   could,   should,  and similar expressions are intended to
be among the statements that identify forward-looking statements. Various factors that could cause
the actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from our expectations are
disclosed in this report ( Cautionary Statements ), including, without limitation, those statements
made in conjunction with the forward-looking statements included under the captions identified
above and otherwise herein. All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us are
expressly qualified in their entirety by the Cautionary Statements.

Executive Overview 

We are an independent international energy company engaged in oil and natural gas exploration,
development, production, leasing and acquisition activities. Our strategy is to increase our oil
and natural gas reserves through a balanced combination of exploratory drilling, development and
exploitation projects and acquisitions. We primarily focus on international exploration activities
in countries where we can establish large acreage positions. We also focus on prospects where we
do not have to compete directly with major integrated or large independent oil and natural gas
producers and where extensive geophysical and geological data is available. Our international
operations are located in European Union or European Union candidate countries that we believe have
stable governments, have transportation infrastructure, attractive fiscal policies and are
net-importers of oil and natural gas.

We currently hold interests in permits granting us the right to explore and develop oil and
natural gas properties in the Paris Basin, France; onshore and offshore Turkey; onshore Romania;
and Hungary. We also own various working-interest properties primarily in Texas, Kansas, New
Mexico, Louisiana and Oklahoma.

Income available to common shares for 2005 was $7.0 million, or $0.47 per diluted share,
compared with income applicable to common shares of $24.3 million, or $1.97 per diluted share, in
2004. Operating income from continuing operations for 2005 was $5.5 million, compared with
operating income from continuing operations of $1.6 million in 2004.

Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $30.9 million, a 47% increase over 2004
revenues of $21 million.

In 2005, our oil and natural gas production was 624,144 BOE versus production of 634,180 BOE
for 2004. Our average realized oil price per barrel for 2005 was $50.17, a 42.3% increase over the
average realized oil price per barrel of $35.24 in 2004. The average realized gas price in 2005 was $7.56 per Mcf, 33.8%
higher than the average realized gas price of $5.65 per Mcf in 2004.

At December 31, 2005, we held interests in approximately 4.7 million gross acres
(approximately 3.8 million net acres). For a more detailed description of our properties see
 Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties.  At December 31, 2005, our net proved reserves were
estimated at approximately 15 MMBOE.

On February 16, 2005, we sold 1,437,500 shares of our common stock pursuant to a public
offering at a price to the public of $24.25 per share. The sale resulted in net proceeds of
approximately $32.3 million, which was used to fund our 2005 capital expenditure budget and for
general corporate purposes.

34

Table of Contents   

In June 2005, we acquired 100% of Pogo Hungary Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Pogo
Producing Company. The purchase price was approximately $9 million. (See Note 3 to Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail.)

On September 16, 2005, we sold 806,450 shares of our common stock to certain accredited
investors pursuant to a private placement. The net proceeds of approximately $23.6 million have
been and are being used for general corporate purposes, including the funding of our capital
expenditures requirements in 2005 and 2006.

On September 27, 2005, we sold $75 million of 5% Convertible Senior Notes due October 1, 2025
to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. The Company
also granted the initial purchasers the option to purchase an additional $11.25 million aggregate
principal amount of Notes to cover over-allotments. The option was exercised on September 30, 2005,
which resulted in a total principal amount of $86.25 million and total net proceeds of
approximately $82.2 million. The funds have been and are being used for general corporate purposes,
including funding a portion of the Company s 2005 and 2006 exploration and development activities.

We will continue to seek opportunities to accelerate our worldwide acquisition and development
program by:

Exploiting existing properties and developing existing reserves. 

Implementing a balanced program of exploration, development and exploitation,
thereby managing our risk exposure. 

Pursuing new permits and selective property acquisitions under terms that
include: 

-  
       
     High-impact exploration concessions in core geographic areas
primarily located in the Euro-Eastern Mediterranean region; and 

-  
       
     Established producing properties that offer potentially significant
additions to our asset base. 

Maintaining operational flexibility by adjusting our drilling program and
capital expenditure budget during the year when necessary. 

Critical Accounting Policies And Management s Estimates 

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon
the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to
our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. We have identified below policies
that are of particular importance to the portrayal of our financial position and results of
operations and which require the application of significant judgment by management. We analyze our
estimates, including those related to oil and natural gas revenues, accounts receivable, oil and
natural gas properties, income taxes, derivatives, contingencies and litigation, on a periodic basis and base our estimates on experience and various other
assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ
from these estimates using different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our
more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements:

Successful Efforts Method Of Accounting 

We account for our oil and natural gas exploration and development activities utilizing the
successful efforts method of accounting. Under this method, costs of productive exploratory wells,
development dry holes and productive wells and undeveloped leases are capitalized. Oil and natural
gas lease acquisition costs are also capitalized. Exploration costs, including personnel costs,
certain geological and geophysical expenses and delay rentals for oil and natural gas leases, are
charged to expense as incurred. Exploratory drilling costs are initially capitalized, but such
costs are charged to expense if and when the well is determined not to have found reserves in
commercial quantities. In most cases, a gain or loss is recognized for sales of producing
properties.

The application of the successful efforts method of accounting requires management s judgment
to determine the proper designation of wells as either developmental or exploratory, which will
ultimately determine the proper

35

Table of Contents   

accounting treatment of the costs incurred. The results from a drilling operation can take considerable time to analyze, and the determination that commercial
reserves have been discovered requires both judgment and application of industry experience. Wells
may be completed that are assumed to be productive and actually deliver oil and natural gas in
quantities insufficient to be economic, which may result in the abandonment of the wells at a later
date. On occasion, wells are drilled which have targeted geologic structures that are both
developmental and exploratory in nature, and in such instances an allocation of costs is required
to properly account for the results. Delineation seismic costs incurred to select development
locations within a productive oil and natural gas field are typically treated as development costs
and capitalized, but often these seismic programs extend beyond the proved reserve areas and
therefore management must estimate the portion of seismic costs to expense as exploratory. The
evaluation of oil and natural gas leasehold acquisition costs requires management s judgment to
estimate the fair value of exploratory costs related to drilling activity in a given area. Drilling
activities in an area by other companies may also effectively condemn leasehold positions.

The successful efforts method of accounting can have a significant impact on the operational
results reported when we enter a new exploratory area in hopes of finding oil and natural gas
reserves. The initial exploratory wells may be unsuccessful and the associated costs will be
expensed as dry hole costs. Seismic costs can be substantial which will result in additional
exploration expenses when incurred.

Reserve Estimates 

Proved reserves are estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids
that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in
future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved
developed reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with
existing equipment and operating methods as well as oil and natural gas expected to be obtained
through the application of fluid injection or other improved recovery techniques for supplementing
the natural forces and mechanisms of primary recovery after testing by a pilot project or after the
operation of an installed program has been confirmed through production response that increased
recovery will be achieved. Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that are expected to be
recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major
expenditure is required for recompletion. Proved undeveloped reserves on undrilled acreage is
limited (i) to those drilling units offsetting productive units that are reasonably certain of
production when drilled and (ii) to other undrilled units where it can be demonstrated with
certainty that there is continuity of production from the existing productive formation. We
emphasize that the volume of reserves are estimates that, by their nature are subject to revision.
The estimates are made using geological and reservoir data, as well as production performance data.
These estimates are reviewed annually and revised, either upward or downward, as warranted by
additional performance data. We had a downward reserve revision of 2.4% for the year ended December 31, 2005 and upward reserve revisions of 5.03%
and 2.34% of proved reserves during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These
reserve revisions resulted primarily from improved or a decline in performance from a variety of sources such as an
addition to or a reduction in recoveries below or above previously established lowest known
hydrocarbon levels, improved or a decline in drainage from natural drive mechanisms, and the
realization of improved or declined drainage areas. If the estimates of proved reserves were to
decline, the rate at which we record depletion expense would increase.

Impairment of Oil and Natural Gas Properties 

We review our proved oil and natural gas properties for impairment on an annual basis or
whenever events and circumstances indicate a potential decline in the recoverability of their
carrying value. We estimate the expected future cash flows from our proved oil and natural gas
properties and compare these future cash flows to the carrying value of the oil and natural gas
properties to determine if the carrying value is recoverable. If the carrying value exceeds the
estimated undiscounted future cash flows, we will adjust the carrying value of the oil and natural
gas properties to its fair value in the current period. The factors used to determine fair value
include, but are not limited to, estimates of reserves, future commodity prices, future production
estimates, anticipated capital expenditures, and a discount rate commensurate with the risk
associated with realizing the expected cash flows projected. Unproved properties are reviewed
quarterly to determine if there has been impairment of the carrying value, with any such impairment
charged to expense in the period. Given the complexities associated with oil and natural gas
reserve estimates and the history of price volatility in the oil and natural gas markets, events
may arise that will require us to

36

Table of Contents   

record an impairment of our oil and natural gas properties and
there can be no assurance that such impairments will not be required in the future nor that they
will not be material.

Future Development And Abandonment Costs 

Future development costs include costs incurred to obtain access to proved reserves, including
drilling costs and the installation of production equipment. Future abandonment costs include costs
to dismantle and relocate or dispose of our production equipment, gathering systems, wells and
related structures and restoration costs of land. We develop estimates of these costs for each of
our properties based upon the type of production structure, depth of water, reservoir
characteristics, depth of the reservoir, market demand for equipment, currently available
procedures and consultations with construction and engineering consultants. Because these costs
typically extend many years into the future, estimating these future costs is difficult and
requires management to make estimates and judgments that are subject to future revisions based upon
numerous factors, including changing technology, the ultimate settlement amount, inflation factors,
credit adjusted discount rates, timing of settlement and changes in the political, legal,
environmental and regulatory environment. We review our assumptions and estimates of future
abandonment costs on an annual basis. The accounting for future abandonment costs changed on
January 1, 2003, with the adoption of SFAS 143. SFAS 143 requires that the fair value of a
liability for an asset retirement obligation be recorded in the period in which it is incurred and
the corresponding cost capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived
asset. The liability is accreted to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost is
depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. If the liability is settled for an amount
other than the recorded amount, a gain or loss is recognized.

Holding all other factors constant, if our estimate of future abandonment costs is revised
upward, earnings would decrease due to higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense.
Likewise, if these estimates were revised downward, earnings would increase due to lower
depreciation, depletion and amortization expense.

Income Taxes 

For financial reporting purposes, we generally provide taxes at the rate applicable for the
appropriate tax jurisdiction. Because our present intention is to reinvest the unremitted earnings
in our foreign operations, we do not provide U.S. income taxes on unremitted earnings of foreign
subsidiaries. Management periodically assesses the need to utilize these unremitted earnings to
finance our foreign operations. This assessment is based on cash flow projections that are the result of estimates of future production, commodity prices and
expenditures by tax jurisdiction for our operations. Such estimates are inherently imprecise since many
assumptions utilized in the cash flow projections are subject to revision in the future.

Management also periodically assesses, by tax jurisdiction, the probability of recovery of
recorded deferred tax assets based on its assessment of future earnings estimates. Such estimates
are inherently imprecise since many assumptions utilized in the assessments are subject to revision
in the future.

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment.  SFAS No. 123(R)
revises SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  and focuses on accounting for
share-based payments for services provided by employee to employer. The statement requires
companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and other equity-based compensation
at the grant date. The statement does not require a certain type of valuation model, and either a
binomial or Black-Scholes model may be used. During the first quarter of 2005, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a new rule for public companies to delay the adoption of this
standard. In April 2005, the SEC took further action to amend Regulation S-X to state that the
provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) will be effective beginning with the first annual or interim
reporting period of the registrant s first fiscal year beginning on or after June 15, 2005 for all
non-small business issuers. As a result, we will not adopt this SFAS until the first quarter of
2006. At this time, management does not believe that the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will
materially impact our operating results, nor will there be any impact on our future cash flows.

37

Table of Contents   

In April 2005, the FASB issued Staff Interpretation No. 19-1 ( FSP 19-1 )  Accounting for
Suspended Well Costs , which provides guidance on the accounting for exploratory well costs and
proposes an amendment to FASB Statement No. 19 ( FASB 19 ), Financial Accounting and Reporting by
Oil and Gas Producing Companies. The guidance in FSP 19-1 applies to enterprises that use the
successful efforts method of accounting as described in FASB 19. The guidance in FSP 19-1 will not
impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3  .  This Statement replaces APB No. 20,
Accounting Changes, and FASB Statement No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial
Statements, and changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in
accounting principle. This statement applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle. It
also applies to changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the
pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. ABP No. 20 previously required that
most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in net income of the
period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. This
Statement requires retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements of changes in
accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or
the cumulative effect of the change. The guidance in this Statement will not impact our
consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

On February 16, 2006, the FASB issued Statement 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid
Instruments- an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140.  The statement amends Statement 133
to permit fair value measurement for certain hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded
derivative and provides additional guidance on the applicability of Statement 133 and 140 to
certain financial instruments and subordinated concentrations of credit risk. The new standard
is effective for the first fiscal year that begins after September 16, 2006. We are currently
evaluating the impact this new standard will have on the Company.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

This section should be read in conjunction with Notes 9 and 10 to Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this filing.

Liquidity 

As of December 31, 2005, we had cash on hand of $92.5 million, a current ratio of
approximately 4.9 to 1 and a debt (convertible debenture, long-term debt and convertible senior
notes) to equity ratio of .69 to 1. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, operating income
was $5.5 million and capital expenditures, including the acquisition of the Hungarian assets for $9
million, was $68 million.

On August 31, 2005, we announced a revised capital budget for the last six months of 2005, and
a preliminary capital budget for the year ended December 31, 2006. We expect our 2006 capital
spending to be approximately $80 million. We believe that our cash flow from operations, net
proceeds from our recent private placement, convertible notes offering and available borrowings
under our credit facilities will sufficiently fund these capital requirements. We may also use some
of these amounts to fund possible acquisitions of properties. We may also seek additional funds if
unanticipated capital requirements arise and to fund any potential acquisitions.

Senior Debt 

On December 23, 2004, we entered into a five-year $15 million reserve-based borrowing facility
with a French lender to finance the development of our existing French fields, acquisitions of new
fields, general working capital and our corporate purposes. The facility bears interest at a
floating rate of 2.25-2.75% above LIBOR (6.59% total rate at December 31, 2005) depending on the
principal outstanding. Toreador and certain of its U.S. and French subsidiaries have each
guaranteed the obligations under the facility. This facility will require monthly interest payments
until December 23, 2009, at which time all unpaid principal and interest are due. Under the $15
million facility borrowings of approximately $8 million were available at December 31, 2005. The
$15 million facility contains various affirmative and negative covenants. These covenants, among
other things, limit additional indebtedness, the sale of assets, change of control and management,
limitations on the distribution of stock

38

Table of Contents   

dividends and require us to meet certain financial
requirements. Specifically, we must maintain an interest cost ratio of not less than 4.00 to 1.00,
an indebtedness ratio of not less than 1.00 to 1.00, asset life cover ratio of not less than 1.25
to 1.00, a loan life cover ratio equal to or greater than 1.15 to 1.00 and a debt service coverage
ratio equal to or greater than 1.10 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with
all covenants.

On December 30, 2004, we entered into a five-year $25 million reserve-based borrowing facility
with Texas Capital Bank, N.A. in order to finance the development and acquisition of oil and
natural-gas interests both domestically and internationally and for working capital purposes. The
facility bears interest at a rate of prime less 0.5% (6.75% total rate at December 31, 2005) and is
collateralized by our domestic working interests. The borrowers under this facility are two of our
domestic subsidiaries, and Toreador has guaranteed the obligations. At December 31, 2005, we had
approximately an additional $3.3 million available for borrowings. The $25 million facility
requires monthly interest payments until January 1, 2009 at which time all unpaid principal and
interest are due. The $25 million facility contains various affirmative and negative covenants.
These covenants, among other things, limit additional indebtedness, the sale of assets, change of
control and management and require us to meet certain financial requirements. Specifically, we must
maintain a current ratio of 1.25 to 1.00 (exclusive of amounts due under revolving credit
arrangements) and an interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.00 to 1.00. As of December 31,
2005, we were in compliance with all covenants.

Preferred Stock 

On February 22, 2005, 82,000 shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock were exchanged
for an aggregate of 532,664 shares of our common stock. The Company issued 389,754 shares of
common stock (14,754 inducement shares) to James R. Anderson, 129,918 shares of common stock (4,918
inducement shares) to Karen Anderson, and 12,992 shares of common stock (492 inducement shares) to
Roger A. Anderson. As of December 31, 2005, there were 72,000 shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. At the
option of the holder, the Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock may be converted into common
shares at a price of $4.00 per common share (conversion would amount to 450,000 Toreador common shares). The Series A-1 Convertible
Preferred Stock accrues dividends at an annual rate of $2.25 per share payable quarterly in cash.
At any time on or after November 1, 2007, we may elect to redeem for cash any or all shares of
Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock. The optional redemption price per share is the sum of (1)
$25.00 per share plus (2) any accrued unpaid dividends, and such sum is multiplied by a declining
multiplier. The multiplier is 105% until October 31, 2008, 104% until October 31, 2009, 103% until
October 31, 2010, 102% until October 31, 2011, 101% until October 31, 2012, and 100% thereafter.

5% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2025 

On September 27, 2005, we sold $75 million of Convertible Senior Notes due October 1, 2025 to
qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. We also
granted the initial purchasers the option to purchase an additional $11.25 million aggregate
principal amount of notes to cover over-allotments. The option was exercised on September 30, 2005.
The total principal amount of notes issued was $86.25 million and total net proceeds were
approximately $82.2 million.

The notes bear interest at a rate of 5% per annum and can be converted into common stock at an
initial conversion rate of 23.3596 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes,
subject to adjustment (equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $42.81 per share). We may
redeem the notes, in whole or in part, on or after October 6, 2008, and prior to October 1, 2010,
for cash at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of notes to be redeemed, plus
any accrued and unpaid interest, if the closing price of its common stock exceeds 130% of the
conversion price over a specified period. On or after October 1, 2010, we may redeem the notes, in
whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of notes to be
redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, irrespective of the price of its common stock.
Holders may convert their notes at any time prior to the close of business on the business day
immediately preceding their stated maturity, and holders may, upon the occurrence of certain
fundamental changes, and on October 1, 2010, October 1, 2015, and October 1, 2020, require us to
repurchase all or a portion of their notes for cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal
amount of such Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest.

39

Table of Contents   

Dividend and Interest Requirements 

Dividends on our common stock may be declared and paid out of funds legally available when and
as determined by our board of directors. Our policy is to hold and invest corporate funds on a
conservative basis, and, thus, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in
the foreseeable future. The terms of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock prohibit us from
paying dividends on the common stock without the approval of the holders of a majority of the then
outstanding shares of the Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock.

Dividends on our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock are paid quarterly. For the twelve
months ended December 31, 2005 dividends totaled $684,314, of which $186,258 was paid in cash and
the remaining $498,056 was paid by the issuance of common stock. Cash dividends of $615,000 were
paid for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2004.

The terms of the $15 million reserve-based borrowing facility limit our ability to pay
dividends on our common stock to twenty-five percent (25%) of net profit (as defined in the
facility agreement), less any dividend amounts paid on our preferred stock.

Contractual Obligations 

The following table sets forth our contractual obligations in thousands at December 31, 2005 for
the periods shown:

Results of Operations 

Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 

40

Table of Contents   

Revenues 

Oil and natural gas sales 

Oil and natural gas sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 were $30.9 million, as
compared to $22.4 million for the comparable period in 2004. This increase is primarily due to a
significant increase in the average realized price of both oil and natural gas. Production
decreased by approximately 10MBOE due primarily to normal declines in the US and in Turkey, offset
by a slight increase in France from the results of successful workovers and new drilling.

The above table compares both volumes and prices received for oil and natural gas for the
twelve months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Oil and natural gas prices are and probably will
continue to be extremely volatile and a significant change will have a material impact on our
revenue.

We had no loss on commodity derivatives for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to
$1.3 million loss for the comparable period of 2004. We were not party to any hedging contracts as
of December 31, 2005.

Costs and expenses 

Lease operating 

Lease operating expense was $9.1 million, or $14.60 per BOE produced for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $6.9 million, or $10.84 per BOE produced for the comparable
period in 2004. This increase is primarily due to the workover program in France and a 10,035 BOE
decline in production when comparing the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 to 2004.

Exploration and acquisition 

Exploration and acquisition expense for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 was $2.8
million, as compared to $3.4 million for the comparable period in 2004. In 2004 we conducted a
seismic program in the Black Sea, resulting in an additional $1.8 million of exploration and
acquisition cost in 2004. Excluding the cost of the seismic program in 2004, there would have been
an increase of $1.2 million in 2005. This increase is primarily due to geological and geophysical
studies done on our exploration areas in France and Turkey.

Dry hole and abandonment 

Dry hole and abandonment cost for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 was $1.7 million,
as compared to no dry hole and abandonment cost for the comparable period of 2004. This increase is
due to expensing of the Boyabot # 1 well in Turkey, which did not test sufficient oil and natural
gas to be declared commercial.

Loss on involuntary conversion of assets 

In 2005 we incurred two separate incidents, in offshore Turkey in the Black Sea, which
resulted in the loss of two caissons and three wells. Both of these incidents were insured. In
December 2005 the Company received notice that the insurance company has reserved $10.6 million
(net to the Company) for the potential payment of this claim. As of December 31, 2005 the book
value of the wells and caissons was $11.1 million. The difference of $569,000 has been recorded as
a loss on the involuntary conversion.

Depreciation, depletion and amortization. 

For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 depreciation, depletion and amortization expense
was $4.2 million, or $6.80 per BOE produced, as compared to $3.5 million, or $5.58 per BOE produced
for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004. This increase is primarily due to increased
investments in oil and gas properties and a 10,035 BOE decline in production.

41

Table of Contents   

General and administrative 

General and administrative expense was $6.8 million for the twelve months ended December 31,
2005, compared with $5.6 million for the comparable period of 2004. The increase is primarily due
to costs related to increased staff, Securities and Exchange Commission filings, Sarbanes-Oxley
compliance and expensing of stock compensation expense related to the restricted stock granted by
the Board of Directors to certain employees and non employee directors.

Other income and expense 

Other income and expense resulted in income of $456,000 for the twelve months ended December
31, 2005 versus income of $2.3 million for the comparable period in 2004. The decrease was
primarily due to a realized $4.8 million foreign currency exchange gain in 2004 that was related to
the increase in value of the Eurodollar against the U.S. dollar in connection with the discharge of the Barclays Facility, which was offset by an
increase in interest income due to higher cash balances in 2005.

Discontinued operations 

The following table compares discontinued operations for the twelve months ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003:

Income available to common shares 

For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, we reported income from continuing operations
net of taxes of $7.7 million, compared with $7.5 million for the same period of 2004. For the
twelve months ended December 31, 2005 income available to common shares was $7.0 million versus
income applicable to common shares of $24.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.

Other comprehensive income 

This item should be read in conjunction with Note 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this filing.

The most significant element of comprehensive income, other than net income, is foreign
currency translation. As of December 31, 2004, we had accumulated an unrealized gain of $2
million. In the year ended December 31, 2005, we had an unrealized loss of $5.2 million. The
functional currency of our operations in France is the Euro, the

42

Table of Contents   

functional currency in Romania is the Lei, in Turkey the functional currency is the New Turkish Lira and in Hungary the functional
currency is the Forint. The exchange rate used to translate the financial position of the French,
Turkish, Romanian and Hungarian operations at December 31, 2005 was approximately US $1.18 per
Euro, 1.35 New Turkish Lira per US Dollar, 35,080 Lei per US Dollar and 214.35 Forint per US
Dollar, respectively. The Euro rate at December 31, 2004, was US $1.36 per Euro and US $0.70 per
million Turkish Lira. There were no Romanian or Hungarian operations in the year ended December 31,
2004.

Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 

(1) 
       
     This column sets forth production and prices for the year ended December 31, 2003, as if the
U. S. mineral royalty asset sale had taken place January 1, 2003. 

Revenues 

Oil and natural gas sales 

For the year ended December 31, 2004, oil and natural gas sales revenues were $22.3 million,
increasing approximately $4.5 million, or 25%, from $17.8 million for the year ended December 31,
2003. This was due to an increase in the average prices we received for oil and natural gas sales.
In 2004, our average oil price per barrel was $35.24 versus $26.02 in 2003. Our average price for
natural gas in 2004 was $5.65 per Mcf, compared with $4.74 in 2003. The increase in revenues was
offset by a 5% decrease in overall production of 31,000 BOE from 665,000 BOE in 2003 to 634,000 BOE
in 2004. Production in the United States decreased 35,000 BOE, the result of the natural decline of
our existing properties and the loss of production on the Vermillion 175 #1. Turkish production
decreased by 19,000 BOE due to the natural decline of existing properties and the loss of
production on the Cendere #12 well. French production increased 23,000 BOE, a result of the
workover program and the addition of the Charmottes 109 during the year.

Gain (loss) on commodity derivatives 

We utilized commodity derivative instruments as part of our risk management program and, prior
to the repayment of our senior credit facilities in January 2004, we utilized them to comply with
the requirements of our senior credit facilities. These transactions are generally structured as
either swaps or collar contracts. A swap has the effect of an outright sale at a specific price. A
collar has the effect of creating a sale only if a floor or ceiling price is

43

Table of Contents   

exceeded. These instruments: (i) reduce the effect of the price fluctuations of the commodities we produce and
sell; and (ii) support our annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans. When we had our senior
credit facilities, these instruments protected the amounts required for servicing outstanding debt;
and maximized the funds available under these facilities. The trading party that represents the
other side of each of these transactions is known as a  counterparty.  The counterparty of our
United States transactions is Coral Energy Holdings, L.P., an affiliate of Royal Dutch/ Shell. The
counterparty of our French transactions was Barclays Capital.
Currently we do not have any commodity derivative instruments for our production. The following table summarizes the
results of our risk-management efforts during 2004 and 2003:

As noted above, we had structured our commodity derivatives to reduce the effect of price
fluctuations of the commodities we produce and sell. As a result, those derivatives decline in
value as the underlying commodity prices rise. Any losses incurred on derivatives are offset by
higher oil and natural gas sales revenues due to increases in underlying commodity prices. However,
under the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 and because we chose
not to designate our derivatives as hedges, mark to market loss on the derivatives is generally
accrued through earnings prior to the recognition of higher sales prices.

Costs and expenses 

Lease operating 

Lease operating expenses increased $222,000, or 3%, from 2003 to 2004, primarily due to the
increase in workover costs on our French properties.

Exploration and acquisition 

Exploration and acquisition expense increased $991,000, or 41%, from 2003 to 2004, due to the
December 2004 seismic program in the Black Sea of Turkey.

Depreciation, depletion and amortization 

Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased $292,000, or 9%, compared with 2003 due to
decreased reserve balances in Turkey. We calculate depletion on our oil and natural gas properties
using the units-of-production method. Current-year production is divided by beginning reserves and
then multiplied by the net value of the properties.

Impairment of oil and natural gas properties 

Impairment charged in 2004 amounted to zero, compared with $171,000 in 2003. The decrease in
the impairment charge is the result of an increase in year-end reserves. Oil and natural gas prices
used to estimate the value of our reserves at December 31, 2003, were $27.87 per barrel and $5.90
per Mcf, respectively, compared with $37.55 per barrel and $5.99 per Mcf, respectively, at December
31, 2004.

General and administrative 

General and administrative expenses increased $2.2 million, or 62% in 2004. The majority of
this increase was the result of actual 2003 costs totaling $2.2 million being allocated to
discontinued operations. The remaining increase of $300,000 was the result of the final settlement
of a severance claim in France.

44

Table of Contents   

Other income and expense 

Other income and expense resulted in a net income addition of $2.3 million during 2004 versus
$61,000 for 2003. The increase was a result of foreign currency transaction gains of $5.0 million
primarily on payments towards the facility we had with Barclays Bank, plc, or the Barclays Facility. Equity in earnings of
unconsolidated subsidiaries had a loss of $18,000 for 2004 compared with a gain of $22,000 for
2003. The decrease was the result of negative earnings from our interest in ePsolutions. Gains were
partially offset by a $1.1 million charge for the remeasurement of Turkish currency. The
remeasurement was required due to the material nature of our capital expenditures in Turkey. Turkey
has been classified as highly-inflationary but the effect in prior years was considered immaterial.
The functional currency in Turkey will be the U.S. dollar as long as the country is considered
highly-inflationary.

Net income available to common shares 

During 2004, we had earnings available to common stockholders of $24.3 million, compared with
$1.9 million for 2003. Improved results for 2004 were largely due to a $17.5 million net gain on
the sale of U.S. mineral and royalty properties. In addition, we received a benefit from income
taxes of $3.6 million compared to $266,000 in 2003. The increase was mainly the result of utilizing
net operating loss carryforwards from prior years.

Other comprehensive income 

The most significant element of comprehensive income, other than net income (loss), is foreign
currency translation. The functional currency of our operations in France is the Eurodollar, and in
Turkey the functional currency in 2004 was the U.S. dollar and in 2003 was the Turkish Lira. The
exchange rate used to translate the financial position of the French operations at December 31,
2004, was approximately U.S. $1.36 per Eurodollar. At December 31, 2003, the exchange rates were
U.S. $1.26 per Eurodollar and U.S. $0.70 per million Turkish Lira. These fluctuations caused an
unrealized translation gain of $1.2 million in 2004, compared with an unrealized translation gain
of $2.2 million in 2003.

Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 

We derived the selected historical financial data in the table below from our unaudited
interim consolidated financial statements. The sum of net income per share by quarter may not equal
the net income per share for the year due to variations in the weighted average shares outstanding
used in computing such amounts. The historical data presented here are only a summary and should be
read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial
information included elsewhere in this annual report.

In the quarter ended December 31, 2005 we recorded several income tax related adjustments. We
released valuation allowances amounting to approximately $944,000 on our United States net
operating loss carryforward due to revising our future projections for our United States
operations. In Turkey, we released valuation allowances amounting to $401,000 due to revising our
future projections of net taxable income in that country. Additionally, Turkey reduced its enacted
income tax rate from approximately 33% to 20%, which resulted in us recording a decrease in
deferred tax liabilities of approximately $917,000. We also recorded a $569,000 loss on involuntary
conversion of assets due to the two separate incidents, in offshore Turkey in the Black Sea, which
resulted in the loss of two caissons and three wells.

45

Table of Contents   

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a
current or material future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition,
revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

The risks inherent in our market-sensitive instruments are the potential loss arising from
adverse changes in oil and natural gas prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates
as discussed below. The sensitivity analysis however, neither considers the effects that such
adverse changes may have on overall economic activity nor does it consider additional actions we
may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. Actual results may differ.

The following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments
to which we are a party as of December 31, 2005, and from which we may incur future earnings gains
or losses from changes in commodity prices. We do not designate our derivatives as hedges; however,
we do not enter into derivative or other financial instruments for trading purposes.

Oil and Natural Gas Prices 

We market our oil and natural gas production primarily on a spot market basis. As a result,
our earnings could be affected by changes in the prices for these commodities, regulatory matters
or demand for the commodities. As market conditions dictate, from time to time we will lock in
future oil and natural gas prices using various hedging techniques. We do not use such financial
instruments for trading purposes, and we are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. Market risk
is estimated as a 10% decrease in the prices of oil and natural gas. Based on our projections for
2006 sales volumes at fixed prices, such a decrease would result in a reduction to oil and natural
gas sales revenue of approximately $4.4 million.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates 

The functional currency of our French operations is the Euro. While our oil sales are
calculated on a U.S. dollar basis, we are exposed to the risk that the values of our French assets
will decrease and that the amounts of our French liabilities will increase. Market risk is
estimated as a 10% decrease in the exchange rate for Euros to U.S. dollars. Based on the net assets
in our French operations at December 31, 2005, such a decrease would result in an unrealized loss
of approximately $5.4 million due to foreign currency exchange rates.

46

Table of Contents   

Derivative Financial Instruments 

We utilize commodity derivative instruments as part of our risk management program and, prior
to the repayment of our senior credit facilities in January 2004, we utilized them to comply with
the requirements of our senior credit facilities. These transactions are generally structured as
either swaps or collar contracts. A swap has the effect of an outright sale at a specific price. A
collar has the effect of creating a sale only if a floor or ceiling price is exceeded. These
instruments (i) reduce the effect of the price fluctuations of the commodities we produce and sell
and (ii) support our annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans. When we had our senior credit
facilities, these instruments protected the amounts required for servicing outstanding debt and
maximized the funds available under these facilities. The trading party that represents the other
side of each of these transactions is known as a  counterparty.  Currently, we do not have any
commodity derivative instruments for our production.

See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our accounting
procedures followed relative to hedge derivative financial instruments and for specific information
regarding the terms of our derivative financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in crude
oil and natural gas commodity prices.

ITEM 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data. 

The Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms and Consolidated Financial
Statements are set forth beginning on page F-1 of this annual report on Form 10-K and are
incorporated herein.

The financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is shown in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 9. Changes In And Disagreements With Accountants On Accounting And Financial Disclosure. 

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  

Corporate Disclosure Controls 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act). that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the
information required to be disclosed by us in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules
and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting
Officer of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period
covered by this annual report. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer concluded that, as a result of the material
weaknesses discussed below, our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005 were not
effective.

Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as that term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(e). Our
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of our financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Our control environment is the foundation for our system of internal control over financial
reporting and is an integral part of our Code of Ethical Conduct and Business Practices and our
Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting
Officer, which sets the tone of our

47

Table of Contents   

Company. Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and
dispositions of our assets; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and
directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements.

In order to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management
conducted an assessment, including testing, based on the criteria set forth in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (the  COSO Framework ). Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. In addition, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer we conducted an evaluation
of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, based on that
assessment, identified three material weaknesses. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or
combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material
misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected.
During the course of performing the 2005 year end audit, three material weaknesses were identified
as follows: 1) the review of sensitive calculations and spreadsheets was insufficient to detect
errors in such calculations and spreadsheets; 2) during the audit of the statutory accounts of our
French affiliate, several audit adjustments were recorded to the statutory accounts, which affected
the tax basis of our French oil and gas properties and 3) information technology system lacks
adequate security and access controls resulting in inadequate segregation of duties and thus needs
improvement in its global application.

Based on our assessment, and because of the material weaknesses described above, management
has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December
31, 2005 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.

Hein   Associates LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the
consolidated financial statements of the Company included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has
issued an audit report on management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. The report, dated March 23, 2006, which
expressed an unqualified opinion on management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting and an opinion that the Company had not maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 based on criteria
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) is included below.

Changes in Internal Controls 

As of September 30, 2005 we reported a material weakness in our internal control over
financial reporting due to lack of adequate review of an equity investee s revenue recognition as
reflected in its financial statements. We changed our procedures so that all transactions reported
by an our unconsolidated equity investments will be reviewed and analyzed to ensure that the
transactions have been properly recorded.

To address the issues associated with the material weaknesses identified as of December 31,
2005, management has implemented several actions to remedy these material weaknesses and is
currently evaluating the implementation of additional procedures that may be necessary to fully
remediate the material weaknesses.

Our control procedures surrounding the use of spreadsheets includes a review of each
spreadsheet by a supervisory level employee and/or the Chief Accounting Officer or the Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate.

48

Table of Contents   

During the year-end audit several errors were found in
spreadsheets. We believe that the failure of the review process to detect the errors constituted a
material weakness. We have instituted procedures whereby a more detailed and thorough review is
performed on each calculation and spreadsheet and we are currently evaluating our processes to
determine which of these can be automated through our financial reporting systems to decrease our
reliance on spreadsheets.

During the audit of the statutory accounts of our French subsidiary, several audit adjustments
were recorded to the statutory accounts, which affected the tax basis of our French oil and gas
properties. During the preparation of our deferred tax provision, our French staff failed to
consider the statutory audit adjustments in determining the book   tax basis difference, which
resulted in an error in our deferred tax provision for France. During the course of performing
the year-end audit, our registered independent accounting firm detected the omission of the
statutory audit adjustments and we have corrected our French deferred tax provision accordingly.
We believe the failure to detect the omission of the statutory audit adjustments was a material
weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. We have now implemented procedures to
verify that all statutory audit adjustments are reviewed and analyzed to determine the potential
impact on the deferred tax provision.

Our review of the system of controls surrounding the information technology system revealed
that 1) several employees could prepare and post entries, leading to a segregation of duties issue;
2) inadequate security over the proper storage of offsite back-up tapes and the periodic review of
back-up tapes to ensure their accuracy; 3) security logs generated by the system were not
periodically reviewed and terminated employees were not disconnected from the system in a timely
manner and 4) several authorized users of our accounting system have access to modules that create
additional segregation of duties issues. We believe our deficiencies in security over information
technology systems constitute a material weakness. We are in the process of improving each
employee s access to the accounting system, so that no employee can prepare and post an entry and
we have changed our procedures so that security logs generated by the system are periodically
reviewed. We have improved the logical access to the accounting system. We are also reviewing
additional procedures that will further strengthen our control over information technology systems.
Management will continue to implement changes that are both organizational and process-focused to
improve the control environment.

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s Annual
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Toreador Resources Corporation (Toreador)
did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005,
because of the effect of the material weaknesses identified in management s assessment, as follows:
1) the review of sensitive calculations and spreadsheets was insufficient to detect errors in such
calculations and spreadsheets; 2) during the audit of the statutory accounts of our French
subsidiary, several audit adjustments were recorded to the statutory accounts, which affected the
tax basis of our French oil and gas properties and 3) information technology system lacks adequate
security and access controls resulting in inadequate segregation of duties and thus needs
improvement in its global application; based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
Toreador s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in

49

Table of Contents   

accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have
a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of
its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

A material
weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that
results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim
financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The following material weaknesses have been
identified and included in management s assessment. The material weaknesses were 1) the review of
sensitive calculations and spreadsheets was insufficient to detect errors in such calculations and
spreadsheets; 2) during the audit of the statutory accounts of our French subsidiary, several audit
adjustments were recorded to the statutory accounts, which affected the tax basis of our French oil
and gas properties and 3) information technology system lacks adequate security and access controls
resulting in inadequate segregation of duties and thus needs improvement in its global application.
These material weaknesses were considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit
tests applied in our audit of the 2005 financial statements, and this report does not affect our
report dated March 23, 2005 on those financial statements.

In our opinion,
management s assessment that Toreador did not maintain effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion,
because of the effect of the material weaknesses described above on the achievement of the objectives
of the control criteria, Toreador has not maintained effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

Hein   Associates LLP 
Dallas, Texas 
March 23, 2005

ITEM 9B. Other Information. 

None.

PART III 

ITEM 10. Directors And Executive Officers Of The Registrant. 

Information required by this item relating to our (i) directors, nominees for directors and
executive officers, (ii) audit committee, (iii) Code of Ethical Conduct and Business Practices,
(iv) changes in procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to our board of
directors, and (v) compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act will be set forth
under the headings  Election of Directors,   Executive Officers,   Committees   Audit Committee, 
 Code of Conduct,   Nominations to the Board of Directors   Consideration of Stockholder
Recommendations of Director Candidates  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance  in our
Proxy Statement relating to the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, that will be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 7, 2006, and that is incorporated
herein by reference.

50

Table of Contents   

ITEM 11. Executive Compensation. 

Information required by this item relating to executive compensation will be set forth under
the heading  Executive Compensation and Other Transactions  in our Proxy Statement relating to the
2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on or prior to April 7, 2006, and that is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  
       
      Security Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management And Related Stockholder
Matters.  

Information required by this item will be set forth under the heading  Securities Authorized
for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans  and  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management  in our Proxy Statement relating to the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, that
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 7, 2006, and that is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. Certain Relationships And Related Transactions. 

Information required by this item relating to certain business relationships and related
transactions with management and other related parties will be set forth under the heading  Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions  in our Proxy Statement relating to the 2006 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders, that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to
April 7, 2006, and that is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees And Services. 

The information relating to (i) fees billed to the Company by the independent public
accountants for services in 2005 and 2004 and (ii) audit committee s pre-approval policies and
procedures for audit and non-audit services, will be set forth under the headings  Auditors   Fees
Paid to Hein   Associates LLP and Ernst and Young LLP Related to Fiscal 2005 and 2004  and
 Auditors   Pre-Approval Policies  in our Proxy Statement relating to the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April
7, 2006, and that is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV 

ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this
report:

1. 
       
     Index to Consolidated Financial Statements, Reports of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firms, Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, Consolidated Statements of Operations for
the three years ended December 31, 2005, Consolidated Statements of
Changes in Stockholders  Equity for the three years ended December 31,
2005, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years ended
December 31, 2005, and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

2. 
       
     The financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are
not applicable or the required information is shown in the
Consolidated Financial Statements or the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements. 

3. 
       
     Exhibits: The exhibits required to be filed by this Item 15 are set
forth in the Index to Exhibits accompanying this report. 

51

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 
Date: March 31, 2006 

By:

/s/ G. Thomas Graves III 

G. Thomas Graves III, President and Chief Executive Officer  

52

Table of Contents   

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned officers and directors of
Toreador Resources Corporation hereby constitutes and appoints G. Thomas Graves III and Douglas W.
Weir, or either of them (with full power to each of them to act alone), his true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution, for him and on his behalf and in his
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign, execute and file any and all amendments
(including post-effective amendments) to this Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits
thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
granting unto said attorneys, and each of them, full power and authority to do so and perform each
and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises in order to
effectuate the same as full to all intents and purposes as he himself might or could do if
personally present, thereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or
either of them, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates as indicated therein.

53

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 

EXHIBIT  

NUMBER  

DESCRIPTION  

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 3,
2001, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
Madison Oil Company (previously filed as Exhibit 2.1
to Toreador Resources Corporation Registration
Statement on Form S-4, No. 333-72314, filed on
October 26, 2001, and incorporated herein by
reference). 

2.2

Agreement for Purchase and Sale, dated December 17,
2003, by and among Toreador Resources Corporation
and Tormin, Inc., as Sellers, and Black Stone
Acquisitions Partners I, L.P., as Buyer (previously
filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Toreador Resources
Corporation Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
January 15, 2004, File No. 0-2517, and incorporated
herein by reference). 

2.3

Quota Purchase Agreement between Pogo Overseas
Production BV, as Seller, and Toreador Resources
Corporation, as Purchaser, dated as of June 7, 2005
(previously filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Toreador
Resources Corporation Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
June 13, 2005, File No. 0-2517, and incorporated
herein by reference). 

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation, of Toreador
Resources Corporation (previously filed as Exhibit
3.1 to Toreador Resources Corporation Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on March 29, 2005, File No. 0-2517, and
incorporated herein by reference). 

3.2

Third Amended and Restated Bylaws of Toreador
Resources Corporation (previously filed as Exhibit
3.2 to Toreador Resources Corporation Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on March 29, 2005, File No. 0-2517, and
incorporated herein by reference). 

4.1

Settlement Agreement, dated June 25, 1998, among the
Gralee Persons, the Dane Falb Persons and Toreador
Royalty Corporation (previously filed as Exhibit 4.1
to Toreador Resources Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, File
No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

4.2

Warrant, dated July 22, 2004, issued by Toreador
Resources Corporation to Nigel Lovett (previously
filed as Exhibit 4.14 to Toreador Resources
Corporation Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
August 20, 2004, File No. 0-2517, and incorporated
herein by reference). 

4.3*

Warrant No. 30, issued by Toreador Resources
Corporation to Rich Brand amending and replacing
Warrant dated July 22, 2004. 

4.4

Registration Rights Agreement, effective February
22, 2005, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
James R. Anderson (previously filed as Exhibit 4.1
to Toreador Resources Corporation Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on February 24, 2005, File No. 0-2517,
and incorporated herein by reference). 

4.5

Registration Rights Agreement, effective February
22, 2005, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
Karen Anderson (previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to
Toreador Resources Corporation Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on February 24, 2005, File No. 0-2517,
and incorporated herein by reference). 

4.6

Registration Rights Agreement, effective February
22, 2005, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
Roger A. Anderson (previously filed as Exhibit 4.3
to Toreador Resources Corporation Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on February 24, 2005, File No. 0-2517,
and incorporated herein by reference). 

4.7

Registration Rights Agreement, effective November 1,
2002, among Toreador Resources Corporation and
persons party thereto (previously filed as Exhibit
4.5 to Toreador Resources Corporation Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002,
File No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by
reference). 

54

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT  

NUMBER  

DESCRIPTION  

4.8

Registration Rights Agreement, dated July 26, 2003,
between Toreador Resources Corporation and James R.
Anderson (previously filed as Exhibit 4.7 to
Toreador Resources Corporation Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003, File
No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

4.9

Registration Rights Agreement, dated August 13,
2003, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
Karen Anderson (previously filed as Exhibit 4.8 to
Toreador Resources Corporation Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003,
File No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by
reference). 

4.10

Registration Rights Agreement, dated October 20,
2003, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
William I. Lee and Wilco Properties, Inc.
(previously filed as Exhibit 4.9 to Toreador
Resources Corporation Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2003, File No.
0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

4.11

Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 15,
2003, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
James R. Anderson (previously filed as Exhibit 4.9
to Toreador Resources Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, File
No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

4.12

Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 15,
2003, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
Roger A. Anderson (previously filed as Exhibit 4.10
to Toreador Resources Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, File
No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

4.13

Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 22,
2003, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
Wilco Properties Inc (previously filed as Exhibit
4.11 to Toreador Resources Corporation Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003,
File No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by
reference). 

4.14

Registration Rights Agreement, dated July 20, 2004,
between Toreador Resources Corporation and the
Investors party thereto (previously filed as Exhibit
4.1 to Toreador Resources Corporation Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on July 23, 2004, File No. 0-2517, and
incorporated herein by reference). 

4.15

Registration Rights Agreement, dated July 22, 2004,
between Toreador Resources Corporation and the
Investors party thereto (previously filed as Exhibit
4.9 to Toreador Resources Corporation Registration
Statement on Form S-3 filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on August 20, 2004, File No.
0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

4.16

Warrant, dated July 22, 2004, issued by Toreador
Resources Corporation to RP C International
(Securities), Inc. (previously filed as Exhibit 4.12
to Toreador Resources Corporation Registration
Statement on Form S-3 filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on August 20, 2004, File No.
0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

4.17

Registration Rights Agreement dated September 27,
2005 by and between Toreador Resources Corporation
and UBS Securities LLC and the other initial
purchasers named in the purchase agreement
(previously filed as Exhibit 4.18 to the
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (333-129628)
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
November 10, 2005, File No. 0-2517, and incorporated
herein by reference). 

4.18

Indenture dated as of September 27, 2005 by and
between Toreador Resources Corporation and The Bank
of New York Trust Company, N.A. (previously filed as
Exhibit 4.19 to the Registration Statement on Form
S-3 (333-129628) filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on November 10, 2005, File No.
0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

10.1 

Employment letter agreement between Madison Oil
Company and Michael J. FitzGerald dated September
10, 2001 (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
Toreador Resources Corporation Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2002, File
No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

55

Table of Contents   

56

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT  

NUMBER  

DESCRIPTION  

10.16

Second Amended and Restated Convertible Debenture,
dated March 31, 2004, between Madison Oil Company
and PHD Partners L.P. (previously filed as Exhibit
10.2 to Toreador Resources Corporation Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the year ended March 31,
2004, File No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by
reference). 

10.17

Subordinated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of
October 3, 2001, between Madison Oil Company and
Toreador Resources Corporation (previously filed as
Exhibit 2.2 to Toreador Resources Corporation
Registration Statement on Form S-4, No. 333-72314,
filed on October 26, 2001, and incorporated herein
by reference). 

10.18

Subordinated Revolving Credit Note, dated as of
October 3, 2001, between Toreador Resources
Corporation and Madison Oil Company (previously
filed as Exhibit 2.3 to Toreador Resources
Corporation Registration Statement on Form S-4, No.
333-72314, filed on October 26, 2001, and
incorporated herein by reference). 

10.19

Securities Purchase Agreement, effective November 1,
2002, among Toreador Resources Corporation and
persons party thereto (previously filed as Exhibit
10.24 to Toreador Resources Corporation Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2002, File No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by
reference). 

10.20

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated October 20,
2003, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
William I. Lee and Wilco Properties, Inc.
(previously filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Toreador
Resources Corporation Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2003, File No.
0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

10.21

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated December 15,
2003, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
James R. Anderson (previously filed as Exhibit 10.20
to Toreador Resources Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, File
No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

10.22

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated December 15,
2003, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
Roger A. Anderson (previously filed as Exhibit 10.21
to Toreador Resources Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, File
No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

10.23

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated December 22,
2003, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
Wilco Properties, Inc. (previously filed as Exhibit
10.22 to Toreador Resources Corporation Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2003, File No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by
reference). 

10.24

Letter Agreement, dated August 11, 2004, by and
between Toreador Resources Corporation and David M.
Brewer (previously filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Toreador
Resources Corporation Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No.
0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

10.25

Reserve Base Revolving Facility Agreement, dated
December 23, 2004, by and among Toreador Resources
Corporation, Madison Energy France, Madison Oil
France, Madison Oil Company Europe and Natexis
Banques Populaires and the other Lenders party
thereto (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
Toreador Resources Corporation Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on December 29, 2004, File No. 0-2517,
and incorporated herein by reference). 

10.26

Credit Agreement, dated December 30, 2004, by and
among Toreador Resources Corporation, Toreador
Acquisition Corporation, Toreador Exploration and
Production, Inc. and Texas Capital Bank, N.A.
(previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Toreador
Resources Corporation Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
January 3, 2005, File No. 0-2517, and incorporated
herein by reference). 

57

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT  

NUMBER  

DESCRIPTION  

10.27

Guaranty, dated December 30, 2004, executed by
Toreador Resources Corporation in favor of Texas
Capital Bank, N.A. (previously filed as Exhibit 10.2
to Toreador Resources Corporation Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on January 3, 2005, File No. 0-2517, and
incorporated herein by reference). 

10.28

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated July 26, 2003,
between Toreador Resources Corporation and James R.
Anderson (previously filed as Exhibit 10.8 to
Toreador Resources Corporation Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003, File
No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

10.29

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated August 13,
2003, between Toreador Resources Corporation and
Karen Anderson (previously filed as Exhibit 10.4 to
Toreador Resources Corporation Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003,
File No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by
reference). 

10.30

7.85% Convertible Subordinated Note due June 30,
2009, dated July 22, 2004, executed by Toreador
Resources Corporation (previously filed as Exhibit
10.2 to Toreador Resources Corporation Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on July 23, 2004, File No.
0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

10.31

Purchase Agreement, dated July 20, 2004, by and
among Toreador Resources Corporation and the
Investors party thereto (previously filed as Exhibit
10.1 to Toreador Resources Corporation Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on July 23, 2004, File No.
0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

10.32

Summary Sheet: Executive Officer Annual Base
Salaries (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
Toreador Resources Corporation Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on February 1, 2006, File No. 0-2517, and
incorporated herein by reference). 

10.33

Summary Sheet: Short-Term Incentive Compensation
Plan (previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Toreador
Resources Corporation Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
February 1, 2006, File No. 0-2517, and incorporated
herein by reference). 

10.34

Summary Sheet: Director Compensation (previously
filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Toreador Resources
Corporation Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 29,
2005, File No. 0-2517, and incorporated herein by
reference). 

10.35

Warrant to Purchase Common Stock of Toreador
Resources Corporation dated July 11, 2005, by and
between Toreador Resources Corporation and Natexis
Banques Popularis (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1
to Toreador Resources Corporation Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on July 13, 2005, File No. 0-2517, and
incorporated herein by reference). 

10.36

Form of Subscription Agreement for September 16,
2005 Private Placement (previously filed as Exhibit
10.1 to Toreador Resources Corporation Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on September 22, 2005, File No.
0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

10.37

Purchase Agreement dated November 22, 2005 by and
among Toreador Resources Corporation, UBS Securities
LLC and the other initial Purchasers named in
Exhibit A attached thereto (previously filed as
Exhibit 10.2 to the Registration Statement on Form
S-3 (333-129628) filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on November 10, 2005, File No.
0-2517, and incorporated herein by reference). 

12.1*

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

21.1*

Subsidiaries of Toreador Resources Corporation. 

23.1*

Consent of Hein   Associates LLP. 

23.2*

Consent of LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. 

58

Table of Contents   

* 
       
     Filed herewith 

Management contract or compensatory plan 

59

Table of Contents   

Item 8. Financial Statements 

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Page 

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

F-2 

Financial Statements

Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 

F-3 

Consolidated Statement of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 

F-4 

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders  Equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 

F-5 

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 

F-6 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-7 

F-1

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Toreador Resources Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Toreador Resources
Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders  equity and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting
principles.

We have also audited, in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). Our report dated March 23, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on
management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting and an opinion that the Company had not maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).

Hein   Associates LLP

Dallas, Texas

March 23, 2006

F-2

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 

(in thousands)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-3

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS 

(in thousands, except share data)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 

(in thousands)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 

(in thousands)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

NOTE 1   BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

Toreador Resources Corporation ( Toreador,   we,   us,   our,  or the  Company ) is an
independent energy company engaged in foreign and domestic oil and natural gas exploration,
development, production, leasing and acquisition activities. The accompanying consolidated
financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars and in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States.

In January 2004, we sold our U.S. mineral and royalty assets to Black Stone Acquisitions
Partners I, L.P. ( Royalty Sale ). We retained all of our working-interest properties. From the
approximate $45.0 million cash consideration that we received, we discharged our outstanding credit
facilities. The financial results for those assets sold are classified as discontinued operations
in the accompanying financial statements. Please see further discussion in Note 14 to the
consolidating financial statements.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION 

The accompanying consolidated financial statements and related footnotes are presented in U.S.
dollars and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation, with no
effect on net income.

NOTE 2   SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

USE OF ESTIMATES 

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management of the Company to
make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.

The Company s estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves are the most significant. All of
the reserve data in this Form 10-K are estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of
estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties
inherent in estimating quantities of proved crude oil and natural gas reserves. The accuracy of any
reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological
interpretation and judgment. As a result, reserve estimates may be different from the quantities of
crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered.

Other items subject to estimates and assumptions include the carrying amounts of property,
plant and equipment and goodwill; asset retirement obligations and deferred income tax assets.
Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates.

BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION 

Toreador consolidates all of its majority-owned subsidiaries. All material intercompany
accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. We account for our investments in
entities in which we hold less than a majority interest under the equity method.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 

Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and all highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less. We maintain our cash in bank deposit
accounts, substantially all of which exceeds federally insured limits. We have not experienced any
losses in such accounts and believe we are not exposed to any significant risk of loss.

F-7

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

For the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 we had $40 million and $0, respectively, in time
deposits bearing interest at 4.06% and maturing on April 7, 2006.

For the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 we had $6.2 million and $4.4 million,
respectively, on deposit in foreign banks.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to a concentration of credit risk consist
principally of cash, accounts receivable, and our hedging and derivative financial instruments. We
place our cash with high credit quality financial institutions. We sell oil and natural gas to
various customers. Historically, we have not experienced any losses related to accounts receivable,
and accordingly, we do not believe an allowance for doubtful accounts is warranted either at
December 31, 2005 or 2004. Substantially all of our accounts receivable are due from purchasers of
oil and natural gas. We place our hedging and derivative financial instruments with financial
institutions and other firms that we believe have high credit ratings. For a discussion of the
credit risks associated with our hedging activities, please see  Derivative Financial Instruments 
below.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

The carrying amounts of financial
instruments including cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments, accounts receivable, marketable securities, accounts payable and accrued liabilities
approximate fair value, at December 31, 2005, due to the short-term nature or maturity of the
instruments.

Long-term debt
and the convertible debenture approximate fair value based on the
quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company
for debt of the same maturities.

On December 31,
2005 the convertible senior notes were trading at $84.50, which would equal a
fair market value of approximately $72.9 million.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

We use various swap and option contracts to (i) reduce the effect of the volatility of price
changes on the commodities we produce and sell; and (ii) support our annual capital budgeting and
expenditure plans. In order to accomplish this objective, we periodically enter into oil and
natural gas swap and option agreements that fix the price of oil and natural gas sales within
ranges determined acceptable at the time we execute the contracts. We may also, from time to time,
enter into hedges of foreign currency. Losses from these hedges totaled $63,000 in 2004. We did not
enter into any commodity or foreign currency hedges in 2005.

We are exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our
financial instruments. We anticipate, however, that such counterparties will be able to fully
satisfy their obligations under the contracts. We do not obtain collateral or other security to
support financial instruments subject to credit risk but we monitor the credit standing of the
counterparties. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had no accounts receivable from our
counterparties.

We have elected not to designate the derivative financial instruments to which we are a party
as hedges, and accordingly, we record such contracts at fair value and recognize changes in such
fair value in current earnings as they occur.

INVENTORIES 

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, other current assets included $951,000, and $530,000 of
inventory, respectively. Those amounts consist of technical equipment and crude oil held in storage
tanks. We record inventories at the lower of actual cost or market.

F-8

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

OIL AND NATURAL GAS PROPERTIES 

We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and natural gas exploration and
development expenditures. Under this method, costs of successful exploratory wells and all
development wells are capitalized. Costs to drill exploratory wells that do not find proved
reserves are expensed. In the absence of a determination as to whether the reserves that have been
found can be classified as proved, we carry the costs of drilling such exploratory wells as an
asset for no more than one year following completion of drilling. If, after that year has passed, a
determination that proved reserves have been found cannot be made, we will assume that the well is
impaired, and charge the cost to expense. Significant costs associated with the acquisition of oil
and natural gas properties are capitalized. Upon sale or abandonment of units of property or the
disposition of miscellaneous equipment, the cost is removed from the asset account, net of the
accumulated depreciation or depletion, and the gain or loss is credited to or charged against
operations.

Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense; betterments of property are capitalized and
depreciated as described below.

DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION AND AMORTIZATION 

We provide depreciation, depletion and amortization of our investment in producing oil and
natural gas properties on the units-of-production method, based upon independent reserve engineers 
estimates of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves from the property. Depreciation expense for fixed assets is generally
calculated on a straight-line basis based upon estimated useful lives of three to seven years.

IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS 

We evaluate producing property costs for impairment and reduce such costs to fair value if the
sum of expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than net book value pursuant to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets ( Statement 144 ). On January 1, 2002 we adopted Statement 144. We assess impairment of
non-producing leasehold costs and undeveloped mineral and royalty interests periodically on a
property-by-property basis. We charge any impairment in value to expense in the period incurred. We
incurred impairment losses on our United States oil and natural gas producing properties of zero in
2005 and 2004, and $171,000 in 2003. The impairments in 2003 were the result of overall decreases
in the quantity of reserves on maturing properties.

ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS 

We account for our asset retirement obligations in accordance with Statement No. 143,
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations ( Statement 143 ), which requires us to record the fair
value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. When
the liability is initially recorded, the entity capitalizes a cost by increasing the carrying
amount of the related long-lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value
each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset.
Upon settlement of the liability, we either settle the obligation for its recorded amount or incur
a gain or loss upon settlement.

The following table summarizes the changes in our asset retirement liability during the years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004:

F-9

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

GOODWILL 

We account for goodwill in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ( Statement 142 ). Under Statement 142, goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets are no longer amortized but are reviewed annually (or more
frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. Separable intangible assets that are not
deemed to have an indefinite life will continue to be amortized over their useful lives (but with
no maximum life).

We review annually the value of goodwill recorded or more frequently if impairment indicators
arise. We recognized no goodwill impairment during 2005 or 2004. Goodwill was reduced by $929,000
in 2004, for a corresponding reduction in deferred tax liabilities which resulted from the
recognition of prior Madison Oil Company net operating losses that were reserved at the date of
acquisition. At the end of 2003, we made a commitment to be fully reinvested in our international
subsidiaries. Accordingly, we reversed the deferred tax liability originally booked as a result of
the acquisition of Madison Oil Company against goodwill in the amount of $2.4 million. This amount
represented the tax effect of the difference between the financial reporting and tax basis of the
net assets of Madison Oil Company at the time of the acquisition. The balance of goodwill at
December 31, 2005 is approximately $2.5 million.

REVENUE RECOGNITION 

Our French crude oil production accounts for the majority of our sales. We sell our French
crude oil to Elf Antar France S.A. ( ELF ), and recognize the related revenues when the production
is delivered to ELF s refinery, typically via truck. At the time of delivery to the plant, title to
the crude oil transfers to ELF. The terms of the contract with ELF state that the price received
for oil sold will be the arithmetic mean of all average daily quotations of Dated Brent published
in Platt s Oil Market Wire for the month of production less a specified differential per barrel.
The pricing of oil sales is done on the first day of the month following the month of production.
In accordance with the terms of the contract, payment is made within six working days of the date
of issue of the invoice. The contract with ELF is automatically extended for a period of one year
unless either party cancels it in writing no later than six months prior to the beginning of the
next year. We periodically review ELF s payment timing to ensure that receivables from ELF for
crude oil sales are collectible.

We recognize revenue for our remaining production when the quantities are delivered to or
collected by the respective purchaser. Title to the produced quantities transfers to the purchaser
at the time the purchaser collects or receives the quantities. Prices for such production are
defined in sales contracts and are readily determinable based on certain publicly available
indices. The purchasers of such production have historically made payment for crude oil and natural
gas purchases within thirty and sixty days of the end of each production month, respectively. We
periodically review the difference between the dates of production and the dates we collect payment
for such production to ensure that receivables from those purchasers are collectible. All
transportation costs are accounted for as a reduction of oil and natural gas sales revenue.

F-10

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
( Statement 123 ), encourages, but does not require, the adoption of a fair value-based method of
accounting for employee stock-based compensation transactions. We have elected to apply the
provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
( Opinion 25 ), and related interpretations, in accounting for our employee stock-based
compensation plans. Under Opinion 25, compensation cost is measured as the excess, if any, of the
quoted market price of our stock at the date of the grant above the amount an employee must pay to
acquire the stock.

Had compensation costs for employees under our two stock-based compensation plans been
determined based on the fair value at the grant dates under those plans consistent with the method
proscribed by Statement 123, our net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share would have been
reduced to the pro forma amounts listed below:

The fair value of each option granted is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION 

The functional currency of the countries in which we operate is the U.S. dollar in the United
States, the Euro in France, the New Turkish Lira in Turkey, the Lei in Romania and the Forint in
Hungary. Gains and losses resulting from the translations of local currencies into U.S. dollars are
included in other comprehensive income for the current period. We periodically review the
operations of our entities to ensure the functional currency of each entity is the currency of the
primary economic environment in which we operate.

Prior to 2004, t
he functional currency in Turkey was the Turkish Lira. In 2004, Turkey was
deemed to be a highly inflationary economy, and therefore the functional currency was changed to the
U.S. dollar. The activity level
and capital spent in Turkey was immaterial to the overall operations until the last quarter of
2004. Accordingly, we

F-11

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

did not convert the functional currency to the U.S. dollar until the fourth
quarter of 2004 even though Turkey s economy has been highly inflationary for several years.

In 2005, management made the determination that the economy in Turkey was no longer highly
inflationary and the functional currency was changed to the New
Turkish Lira. The impact of this change was not material to our
financial position or results of operations as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2005.

INCOME TAXES 

We are subject to income taxes in the United States, France, Turkey, Hungary and Romania. The
current provision for taxes on income consists primarily of income taxes based on the tax laws and
rates of the countries in which operations were conducted during the periods presented. We compute
our provision for deferred income taxes using the liability method. Under the liability method,
deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial
reporting and income tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax
rates and laws. The measurement of deferred tax assets is adjusted by a valuation allowance, if
necessary, to reduce the future tax benefits to the amount, based on available evidence it is more
likely than not deferred tax assets will be realized. Goodwill was reduced by $929,000 in 2004 for
a corresponding reduction in deferred tax liabilities which resulted from the recognition of prior
Madison Oil Company net operating losses. At the end of 2003, we made a commitment to be fully
reinvested in our international subsidiaries. Accordingly, in 2003, we reversed the deferred tax
liability originally booked as a result of the acquisition of Madison Oil Company against goodwill
in the amount of $2.4 million. This amount represented the tax effect of the difference between
the financial reporting and tax basis of the net assets of Madison Oil Company at the time of the
acquisition. The balance of the deferred tax liability at December 31, 2005 is $10.2 million.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment.  SFAS No. 123(R)
revises SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  and focuses on accounting for
share-based payments for services provided by employee to employer. The statement requires
companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and other equity-based compensation
at the grant date. The statement does not require a certain type of valuation model, and either a
binomial or Black-Scholes model may be used. During the first quarter of 2005, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a new rule for public companies to delay the adoption of this
standard. In April 2005, the SEC took further action to amend Regulation S-X to state that the
provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) will be effective beginning with the first annual or interim
reporting period of the registrant s first fiscal year beginning on or after June 15, 2005 for all
non-small business issuers. As a result, we will not adopt this SFAS until the first quarter of
2006. At this time, management does not believe that the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will
materially impact our operating results, financial position, or our future cash flows.

In April 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 19-1  Accounting for Suspended
Well Costs.  This staff position amends FASB Statement No. 19  Financial Accounting and Reporting
by Oil and Gas Producing Companies  and provides guidance about exploratory well costs to companies
who use the successful efforts method of accounting. The position states that exploratory well
costs should continue to be capitalized if: 1) a sufficient quantity of reserves are discovered in
the well to justify its completion as a producing well and 2) sufficient progress is made in
assessing the reserves and the well s economic and operating feasibility. If the exploratory well
costs do not meet both of these criteria, these costs should be expensed, net of any salvage value.
Additional annual disclosures are required to provide information about management s evaluation of
capitalized exploratory well costs. In addition, the Staff Position requires the annual disclosure
of: 1) net changes from period to period of capitalized exploratory well costs for wells that are
pending the determination of proved reserves, 2) the amount of exploratory well costs that have
been capitalized for a period greater than one year after the completion of drilling and 3) an
aging of exploratory well costs suspended for greater than one year with the number of wells it
related to. Further, the disclosures should describe the activities undertaken to evaluate the
reserves and the projects, the information
still required to classify the associated reserves as proved and the estimated timing for
completing the evaluation. For our disclosures, refer to Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

F-12

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3  .  This Statement replaces APB No. 20,
Accounting Changes, and FASB Statement No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial
Statements, and changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in
accounting principle. This statement applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle. It
also applies to changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the
pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. ABP No. 20 previously required that
most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in net income of the
period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. This
Statement requires retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements of changes in
accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or
the cumulative effect of the change. The guidance in this Statement will not impact our
consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

On February 6, 2006, the FASB issued Statement 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid
Instruments- an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140.  The statement amends Statement 133
to permit fair value measurement for certain hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded
derivative, provides additional guidance on the applicability of Statement 133 and 140 to certain
financial instruments and subordinated concentrations of credit risk. The new standard is
effective for the first fiscal year that begins after September 16, 2006. As of December 31, 2005
the Company has not entered into nor do we expect to enter into any agreements that would be
subject to this Statement.

NOTE 3   ACQUISITION 

In June 2005, we acquired 100% of Pogo Hungary Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Pogo
Producing Company. The results of operations are included in our consolidated financial statements
effective with the date of acquisition through December 31, 2005. The purchase price was
approximately $9 million and was allocated as follows:

The Company made this acquisition because it met the requirements of our long-term strategic
plan to seek properties in our existing core areas.

NOTE 4   COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

The following table presents the components of comprehensive income (loss), net of related tax:

F-13

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

NOTE 5   EARNINGS PER SHARE  

In accordance with the provisions of FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,
Earnings per Share ( Statement 128 ), basic earnings per share are computed on the basis of the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the periods. Diluted earnings per share
is computed based upon the weighted-average number of common shares plus the assumed issuance of
common shares for all potentially dilutive securities.

F-14

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(1) 
       
     Conversion of these securities would be antidilutive; therefore, there are no dilutive
shares. 

(2) 
       
     Conversion of preferred shares would be dilutive; therefore, we assume no dividends would
have been paid. 

(3) 
       
     5% Senior Convertible Notes were issued on September 27, 2005. 

NOTE 6   ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE 

Accounts receivable consisted of the following:

The insurance receivable is the amount we expect to receive from the two separate incidents,
in offshore Turkey in the Black Sea, which resulted in the loss of two caissons and three wells.

Accrued oil and natural gas sales receivables are due from either purchasers of oil and gas or
operators in oil and natural gas wells for which the Company owns an interest. Oil and natural gas
sales are generally unsecured and such amounts are generally due within 30 days after the month of
sale.

Trade receivables are the amounts due from our joint interest partners in our Black Sea
operation. These receivables are generally due within 15 days after receipt of monthly joint
interest billing.

Other receivables are accrued interest receivable, at December 31, 2005 on time deposits,
value added tax refunds and travel advances to employees.

We periodically review the collectability of accounts receivable and record a valuation
allowance for those accounts which are, in our judgment, unlikely to be collected. We have not had
any significant credit losses in the past and we believe our accounts receivable are fully
collectable. Accordingly, no allowance for doubtful accounts has been provided. Schedule II,
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts, was omitted because there were no allowances or other valuation
or qualifying accounts.

F-15

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

NOTE 7   PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT 

Oil and Natural Gas Properties consist of the following:

In 2005 two separate incidents occurred, in offshore Turkey in the Black Sea, which resulted
in the loss of two caissons and three wells. Both of these incidents were insured. In December 2005
the Company received notice that the insurance company has reserved $10.6 million (net to the
Company) for potential payment of this claim. As of December 31, 2005 the book value of the wells
and caissons was $11.1 million. The difference of $569,000 has been recorded as a loss on
involuntary conversion.

During 2005 we did not sell any material oil and natural gas properties. In 2004, we sold
various properties and equipment for $42.1 million, (net of closing costs) resulting in a gain of
$28.4 million, before tax.

The Company capitalizes exploratory well costs until a determination is made that the well has
found proved reserves or is deemed noncommercial, in which case the well costs are immediately
charged to exploration expense.

The following table reflects the Company s capitalized exploratory well activity and does not
include amounts that were capitalized and subsequently expensed in the same period:

The following table provides an aging of capitalized exploratory well costs (suspended well costs),
as of December 31 of each year, based on the date the drilling was completed:

F-16

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

NOTE 8   INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES  

In February 2004, we acquired 45% of ePsolutions. Based in Austin, Texas, ePsolutions is a
software and energy services company in the electric industry and deregulated energy markets.
ePsolutions is the developer of emPower system, a CIS, EDI and Billing solution for energy
companies within deregulated energy markets. At December 31, 2005 and 2004 our investment in
ePsolutions amounted to $1.3 million and $799,000, respectively. For the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004 we advanced $753,000 and $1.2 million, respectively, and we recorded equity in the
loss of ePsolutions of $238,000 in 2005 and a loss of $312,000 in 2004.

In July 2000, we acquired 35% of EnergyNet.com, Inc. ( EnergyNet ), an Internet based oil and
natural gas property auction company. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, our investment in EnergyNet
amounted to $832,000 and $554,000, respectively. We recorded equity in the earnings of EnergyNet of $409,000 in 2005,
$279,000 in 2004, and $6,500 in 2003. We recorded a dividend from EnergyNet of $131,250 in 2005 and
$131,250 in 2004.

In April 2000, we acquired a 50% interest in Capstone Royalty, LLC ( Capstone ), a joint
venture formed to acquire mineral interests at county auctions in west Texas and develop those
interests. Our investment in Capstone amounted to $104,000 and $112,000 at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. We recorded equity in the earnings of Capstone amounting to $51,000 in 2005,
$15,000 in 2004 and $15,000 in 2003. We received a distribution of $60,000 in 2005 and $25,000
from Capstone in both 2004 and 2003.

NOTE 9
  LONG-TERM DEBT 

Long-term debt consisted of the following:

CONVERTIBLE SENIOR NOTES DUE OCTOBER 1, 2025 

On September 27, 2005, we sold $75 million of Convertible Senior Notes due October 1, 2025
( Notes ) to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933.
The Company also granted the initial purchasers the option to purchase an additional $11.25 million
aggregate principal amount of Notes to cover over-allotments. The option was exercised on September
30, 2005. The total principal amount of Notes issued was $86.25 million and total net proceeds were
approximately $82.2 million. We incurred approximately $4.1 million of costs associated with the
issuance of the Notes; this cost has been recorded in other assets on the balance sheet and will be
recorded to interest expense over the life of the Notes. The net proceeds have been and will be
used for general corporate purposes, including funding a portion of the Company s 2005 and 2006
exploration and development activities.

The Notes bear interest at a rate of 5% per annum and can be converted into common stock at an
initial conversion rate of 23.3596 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes,
subject to adjustment (equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $42.81 per share). The
Company may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, on or after October 6, 2008, and prior to
October 1, 2010, for cash at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of Notes to
be redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, if the closing price of its common stock exceeds
130% of the conversion price over a specified period. On or after October 1, 2010, the Company may
redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount
of

F-17

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Notes to be redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, irrespective of the price of its common
stock. Holders may convert their Notes at any time prior to the close of business on the business
day immediately preceding their stated maturity, and holders may, upon the occurrence of certain
fundamental changes, and on October 1, 2010, October 1, 2015, and October 1, 2020, require the
Company to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes for cash in an amount equal to 100% of the
principal amount of such Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest.

REVOLVING LINE OF CREDIT WITH NATEXIS BANQUES POPULAIRES 

On December 23, 2004, we entered into a five-year $15.0 million reserve-based borrowing
facility with a French lender to finance the development of our existing French fields,
acquisitions of new fields, general working capital and our corporate purposes. The facility bears
interest at a floating rate of 2.25-2.75% above LIBOR (6.59% total rate at December 31, 2005)
depending on the principal outstanding. The facility is collateralized by certain of our French
assets, including contracts relating to our rights and interests in our French fields, our direct
and indirect equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries and payments received from the sale of
our French production. Toreador and certain of its U.S. and French subsidiaries have each
guaranteed the obligations under the facility. This facility will require monthly interest payments
until December 23, 2009, at which time all unpaid principal and interest are due. We are subject to
a commitment fee of one half (1/2) of the applicable margin, 1.25% as of December 31, 2005, on the
available and unused facility borrowings. Under the $15.0 million facility, borrowings of
approximately $8.0 million are available at December 31, 2005. The $15.0 million facility contains
various affirmative and negative covenants. These covenants, among other things, limit additional
indebtedness, the sale of assets, change of control and management, limitations on the distribution
of stock dividends and require us to meet certain financial requirements. Specifically, we must
maintain an interest cost ratio of not less than 4.00 to 1.00, an indebtedness ratio of not less
than 1.00 to 1.00, asset life cover ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.00, a loan life cover ratio
equal to or greater than 1.15 to 1.00 and a debt service coverage ratio equal to or greater than
1.10 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all covenants.

REVOLVING LINE OF CREDIT WITH TEXAS CAPITAL BANK, N.A. 

On December 30, 2004, we entered into a five-year $25.0 million reserve-based borrowing
facility with Texas Capital Bank, N.A. in order to finance the development and acquisition of oil
and natural-gas interests both domestically and internationally and for working capital purposes.
The facility bears interest at a rate of prime less 0.5% (6.75% total rate at December 31, 2005)
and is collateralized by our domestic working interests. The borrowers under this facility are two
of our domestic subsidiaries, and Toreador has guaranteed the obligations. At December 31, 2005, we
had approximately $3.3 million available for borrowings. The $25.0 million facility requires
monthly interest payments until January 1, 2009 at which time all unpaid principal and interest are
due. We are subject to a commitment fee of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) as of December 31,
2005, on the available and unused facility borrowings. The $25 million facility contains various
affirmative and negative covenants. These covenants, among other things, limit additional
indebtedness, the sale of assets, change of control and management and require us to meet certain
financial requirements. Specifically, we must maintain a current ratio of 1.25 to 1.00 (exclusive
of amounts due under revolving credit arrangements) and an interest coverage ratio of not less than
3.00 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all covenants.

REVOLVING LINE OF CREDIT WITH BARCLAYS BANK, PLC 

As part of our acquisition of Madison Oil Company, we assumed a revolving credit facility with
Barclays Bank, Plc (the  Barclays Facility ) that was to mature on December 31, 2005 and was
secured by the production from our French properties. We had $11.8 million outstanding at December
31, 2003 under the Barclays Facility. During 2003, we used $2.8 million of our available cash flow
to reduce the amounts outstanding under the Barclays Facility. We discharged the Barclays Facility
in January 2004 with a portion of the proceeds from the U. S. mineral royalty asset sale. Under the
terms of the Warrant Buyback Letter dated May 19, 2003, we were required to buy 500,000 outstanding
warrants back from Barclays for the sum of $100,000 upon final settlement of the Barclays Facility.

F-18

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Additionally, we were required to make a final settlement payment totaling $925,000 less the
amounts of
any payments made to Barclays for interim fees due before the final settlement under the terms
of the Settlement Fee Letter dated May 19, 2003. The settlement payment amount after deduction of
the interim fees paid to Barclays was approximately $806,000.

When we repaid the Barclays Facility in January 2004, we realized a foreign currency
translation gain of approximately $5.0 million (3.9 million Euros) which was previously included in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders  equity at December 31, 2003. The
gain is reflected in other income (expense) as foreign currency exchange gain on the statement of
operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.

CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED NOTES 

In July 2004, we sold to certain institutional investors pursuant to a private offering $7.5
million aggregate principal amount of 7.85% convertible subordinated notes due June 30, 2009. We
used the net proceeds of the offering to accelerate our oil development program in France s Paris
Basin and for general corporate purposes. The 7.85% convertible subordinated notes due June 30,
2009 bore interest at the rate of 7.85% per annum and were convertible into shares of Toreador
common stock at a conversion price of $8.20 per share. Toreador had the right to cause the 7.85%
notes to be converted on or after February 22, 2005, if the closing price of Toreador s common
stock was greater than $14.35 for the 30 consecutive trading days prior to the date of Toreador s
conversion notice. On January 13, 2005, we offered the option to
the holders of the 7.85% notes to
exchange their notes for the aggregate number of shares of our common stock issuable upon
conversion of each of their notes and that portion of interest payable pursuant to the notes that
would otherwise have been payable to the holders through February 22, 2005 absent conversion of the
notes prior to such date. On or prior to January 20, 2005, all of our 7.85% convertible
subordinated notes due June 30, 2009 were exchanged for an aggregate of 914,634 shares of our
common stock and an aggregate cash payment (in lieu of interest) of approximately $85,000.

CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURE 

As part of our acquisition of Madison Oil Company, we assumed and amended a convertible
debenture ( Debenture ) payable to PHD Partners LP. The general partner of PHD Partners LP is a
corporation wholly owned by David M. Brewer, a director and significant stockholder of Toreador.
The amended and restated debenture used to bear interest at 10% per annum and was due on March 31,
2006. At the holders  option, the amended and restated debenture could be converted into common
stock at a ratio of $6.75 per share. We originally had 319,962 common shares reserved for issuance
related to the conversion of the amended and restated debenture. As of March 31, 2004, the amended
and restated debenture was amended and restated to bear interest at 6% per annum, eliminate Madison
Oil Company s right under certain circumstances to force a conversion of the principal into shares
of Toreador common stock and eliminate Madison Oil Company s ability to repay principal prior to
maturity. The maturity date remains March 31, 2006. At the holder s option, the second amended and
restated convertible debenture can be converted into Toreador common stock at a conversion price of
$6.75 per share. In December 2004, PHD Partners LP converted $675,000 of the second amended and
restated debenture into 100,000 shares of our common stock. As a result, at December 31, 2004 the
outstanding principal amount of the second amended and restated convertible debenture was
approximately $1.5 million. On August 10, 2005, PHD Partners converted $675,000 of the second
amended and restated debenture into 100,000 shares of our common stock, resulting in an outstanding
principal balance of $810,000 at December 31, 2005. Interest payments made to PHD Partners LP were
$73,195, $352,416 and $108,437 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

F-19

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The following table summarizes the principle maturities under our long-term debt
arrangements at December 31, 2005:

NOTE 10    CAPITAL 

Toreador had 72,000 and 154,000 shares of nonvoting Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock
outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. At the option of the holder, the Series
A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock may be converted into common shares at a price of $4.00 per common
share (conversion would amount to 450,000 Toreador common shares). The Series A-1 Convertible
Preferred Stock accrues dividends at an annual rate of $2.25 per share payable quarterly in cash.
At any time on or after November 1, 2007, we may elect to redeem for cash any or all shares of
Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock. The optional redemption price per share is the sum of (1)
$25.00 per share of the Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock plus (2) any accrued unpaid
dividends, and such sum is multiplied by a declining multiplier. The multiplier is 105% until
October 31, 2008, 104% until October 31, 2009, 103% until October 31, 2010, 102% until October 31,
2011, 101% until October 31, 2012, and 100% thereafter.

On December 31, 2004, 6,000 shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock were converted
into 37,500 shares of our common stock pursuant to the terms of the Series A-1 Convertible
Preferred Stock . 

On February 22, 2005, 82,000 shares of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock were
exchanged for an aggregate of 512,500 shares of Toreador common stock pursuant to an offer made by
the Company to each holder of its Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock. Each holder was
given the opportunity to convert such shares of Preferred Stock into shares of common stock of the
Company pursuant to the terms of conversion of the Preferred Stock. In addition the Company offered
additional shares of common stock as an inducement for the holders to convert the Preferred Stock
at a time when the Company could not mandatorily redeem the Preferred Stock and in lieu of
dividends that would otherwise accrue until such mandatory redemption date to the terms thereof and
an additional 20,164 shares of our common stock which were issued as an inducement to convert such
shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock.

As part of our acquisition of Madison Oil Company, we issued warrants for the purchase of
111,509 shares of our common stock. At December 31, 2005 there were 4,130 warrants outstanding at
$8.05 that expire in July 2010 and 2,360 warrants outstanding at $5.37 that expire in August 2010.

On July 22, 2004, we issued warrants for the purchase of 40,000 shares of our common stock at
$8.20 per share. The warrant was issued pursuant to the terms of the letter agreement dated July
19, 2004. At December 31, 2005 there were 36,400 warrants outstanding all of which expire July 22,
2009.

On July 11, 2005, we issued warrants for the purchase of 50,000 shares of our common stock at
$27.40 per share. The warrant was issued pursuant to the terms of the Fee Letter, dated February
21, 2005, between the Company, Natexis Banques Popularires and Madison Energy France. At December
31, 2005 all 50,000 warrants were outstanding and expire on December 23, 2009.

On February 16, 2005, we sold 1,437,500 shares of our common stock pursuant to a public
offering at a price to the public of $24.25 per share. The sale resulted in net proceeds of
approximately $32.3 million.

On September 16, 2005, we sold 806,450 shares of our common stock to certain accredited
investors pursuant to a private placement. The sale resulted in net proceeds of approximately $23.6
million.

F-20

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

NOTE 11   INCOME TAXES 

The Company s provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following:

The primary reasons for the difference between tax expense at the statutory federal income tax
rate and our provision for income taxes were:

F-21

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the
deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

At December 31, 2005, Toreador had the following carryforwards available to reduce future
taxable income (in thousands):

Realization of net operating loss carryforwards depends on our ability to generate taxable
income within the carryforward period.

The utilization of our Turkish net operating loss carryforwards depends on our ability to
generate taxable income during the carryforward period. We have recorded a valuation allowance of
approximately $64,000 related to net operating loss carryforwards that will expire before we can
utilize them.

The utilization of our Hungary net operating loss carryforwards depends on our ability to
generate taxable income during the carryforward period. We have recorded a valuation allowance of
approximately $4.0 million. Our Hungarian net operating loss has an unlimited carryover period.

NOTE 12   BENEFIT PLANS  

We have a 401(k) retirement savings plan. Employees are eligible to defer portions of their
salaries, limited by Internal Revenue Service regulations. Employer matches are discretionary, and
are determined annually by the board of directors. Such discretionary matches amounted to $52,000
in 2005, $75,000 in 2004, and zero in 2003.

F-22

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

NOTE 13   STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS 

We have granted stock options to key employees and outside directors of Toreador as described
below.

In May 1990, we adopted the 1990 Stock Option Plan ( 1990 Plan ). The 1990 Plan, as amended
and restated, provides for grants of up to 1,000,000 stock options to employees and directors at
exercise prices greater than or equal to market on the date of the grant.

In December 2001, we adopted the 2002 Stock Option Plan ( 2002 Plan ). The 2002 Plan provides
for grants of up to 500,000 stock options to employees and outside directors at exercise prices
greater than or equal to market on the date of the grant.

In September 1994, we adopted the 1994 Non-employee Director Stock Option Plan ( 1994 Plan ).
The 1994 Plan, as amended and restated, provides for grants of up to 500,000 stock options to
non-employee directors of Toreador at exercise prices greater than or equal to market on the date
of the grant.

The Board of Directors grants options under our plans periodically. Generally, option grants
are exercisable in equal increments over a three-year period, and have a maximum term of 10 years.
However, the 2004 stock grants were immediately vested.

A summary of stock option transactions is as follows:

For stock options granted the following table represents the weighted-average exercise prices
and the weighted-average fair value based upon whether or not the exercise price of the option was
greater than, less than or equal to the market price of the stock on the grant date:

F-23

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The following table summarizes information about the fixed price stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2005:

At December 31, 2005, there were 120,208 remaining shares available for grant under the plans
collectively.

In May 2005, stockholders approved the Toreador Resources Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). The Plan authorizes the issuance of up to 250,000 shares of the Company s common
stock to key employees, key consultants and outside directors of the Company. In 2005 the Board of
Directors authorized a total of 114,560 shares of restricted stock be granted to employees and
non-employee directors. In accordance with Opinion 25, the compensation cost is measured by the
difference between the quoted market price of the stock at the date of grant and the price, if any,
to be paid by an employee and is recognized as expense over the period the recipient performs
related services. The restricted stock grants vest over a three year period and the average price
of the stock on the date of the grants was $20.09. Stock compensation expense of $400,790 is
included in the Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, which represents the
cost recognized from the date of the grants through December 31, 2005.

NOTE 14   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

We lease our office space under non-cancelable operating leases, expiring during 2006 through
2008. We also sublease portions of the leased space to one related party and two unrelated parties
under non-cancelable sub-leases that expire on June 30, 2006. The following is a schedule of
minimum future rentals under our non-cancelable operating leases, giving effect to the
non-cancelable sub-leases, as of December 31, 2005 (in thousands):

F-24

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Net rent expense totaled $480,000 in 2005, $324,000 in 2004 and $356,000 in 2003.

Turkish Registered Capital.  Under the existing Petroleum Law of Turkey, capital that is
invested by foreign companies in projects such as oil and natural gas exploration can be registered
with the General Directorate of Petroleum Affairs, thereby qualifying for protection against
adverse changes in the exchange rate between the time of the initial investment and the time such
capital is repatriated out of Turkey. Since 1997 the Turkish government has suspended such
protection for repatriated capital. As the holder of more than $50 million of registered capital,
we have filed suit in Turkey to attempt to restore the exchange rate protections afforded under the
law. No amounts are accrued related to this contingency. In March 2002, a lower level court ruled
in favor of Toreador. The ruling was subject to appeal that was heard in December 2002. The
appellate court reversed the lower court s ruling. All internal Turkish legal proceedings are
exhausted and the rejection of the exchange protection award is final. We have appealed the case
to the European Court of Human Rights which is a court recognized by Turkey. We cannot predict the
outcome of this matter.

From time to time, we are named as a defendant in other legal proceedings arising in the
normal course of business. In our opinion, the final judgment or settlement, if any, which may be
awarded with any suit or claim would not have a material adverse effect on our financial position.

NOTE 15   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  

On June 14, 2004, we issued stock options for 29,500 shares of our common stock to David M.
Brewer. Mr. Brewer currently serves as a director for Toreador. The options were in payment to Mr.
Brewer for consulting services related to our international activities. The options were granted
pursuant to the Toreador Resources Corporation 2002 Stock Option Plan. The exercise price is $5.50
per share. The options expire no later than 10 years from the date of issuance. We recorded a
charge to general and administrative costs of $58,000 in 2004.

William I. Lee, a director of the Company, is also Chairman of the Board and majority owner of
Wilco Properties, Inc ( Wilco ). The Company subleases office space to Wilco pursuant to a
sub-lease agreement. We recorded reductions to rent expense totaling $48,000 in 2005, $45,000 in
2004 and $47,000 in 2003 related to the sublease with Wilco. We have an informal agreement with
Wilco under which one of the two companies incurs, on behalf of the other, certain miscellaneous
expenses that are subsequently reimbursed by the other company. We had amounts receivable related
to this arrangement of $146, $2,000 and $1,500 at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

On November 1, 2002, pursuant to a private placement we issued $925,000 of Series A-1
Convertible Preferred Stock to certain of our directors or entities controlled by certain of our
directors. In connection with the securities purchase agreements, Toreador entered into a
registration rights agreement effective November 1, 2002, among Toreador and the purchasers which
provides for the registration of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A-1
Convertible Preferred Stock. During 2003, pursuant to private placements we issued 41,000 shares
of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock for the total amount of $1,025,000 to William I. Lee
and Wilco as follows: (i) in October 2003, 34,000 shares were issued to William I. Lee and Wilco,
an entity controlled by Mr. Lee; and (ii) in December 2003, 7,000 shares were issued to Wilco. The
Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock is governed by a certificate of designation. The Series A-1
Convertible Preferred Stock was sold for a face value of $25.00 per share, and pays an annual cash
dividend of $2.25 per share that result in an annual yield of 9.0%. At the option of the holder,
the Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock may be converted into common shares at a price of $4.00
per common share. The $4.00 conversion price was higher than the market price of our common stock
at the time of issuances. The Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock is redeemable at our option,
in whole or in part, at any time on or after November 1, 2007. The optional redemption price per
share is the sum of (1) $25.00 per share of the Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock plus (2) any
accrued unpaid dividends, and such sum is multiplied by a declining multiplier. The multiplier is
105% until October 31, 2008, 104% until October 31, 2009, 103% until October 31, 2010, 102% until
October 31, 2011, 101% until October 31, 2012, and 100% thereafter. In connection with the
securities purchase agreements entered into with William I. Lee and Wilco, Toreador granted certain
 piggy-back  registration rights relating to the common stock issuable upon conversion of the
Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock. The sale of the Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock was
effected in reliance upon the exemption from securities registration afforded by the provisions of
Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933,

F-25

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

as amended, and Regulation D as promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

In 2002, we acquired Wilco Turkey Ltd ( WTL ) from Wilco. WTL s primary asset is an interest
(ranging from 52.5% to 87.5%) in exploration licenses covering 2.2 million acres in the Thrace
Basin and in the central and southeast areas of Turkey. We also acquired from F-Co Holdings
Kandamis ( F-Co ) additional interests (ranging from 7.5% to 12.5%) in the same exploration
licenses. The purpose of the acquisition was to obtain, explore and possibly develop the acreage
covered by the licenses. The acreage in the Thrace Basin is adjacent to or near the acreage we
held prior to the acquisition of WTL. In exchange for all of the outstanding common stock of WTL,
we agreed to give Wilco an overriding royalty interest in any successful wells we drill on the
acreage covered by the exploration licenses we acquired. We also agreed to give F-Co, in exchange
for its interest in the acreage, an overriding royalty interest in any successful wells we drill on
the acreage. As of the acquisition date, there were no outstanding liabilities associated with
WTL. We did not convey value to Wilco or F-Co on the acquisition date, or assume any liabilities;
therefore, the fair value of the transaction was zero. We have allocated no value to the assets
acquired from WTL and F-Co. Wilco is controlled by William I. Lee, a director and stockholder, and
F-Co are partially owned by Peter L. Falb, a director and stockholder. We own a 35% interest in
EnergyNet.com, Inc., an Internet based oil and natural gas property auction company. We did not pay
any commissions on property sales to EnergyNet during 2005 and 2004.

NOTE 16   DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

On January 14, 2004, pursuant to the terms of an Agreement for Purchase and Sale dated
December 17, 2003, Toreador and Tormin, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Toreador, sold their
United States mineral and royalty assets to Black Stone Acquisitions Partners I, L.P. The gross
consideration was approximately $45 million cash. The effective date of the sale was January 1,
2004.

The results of operations of assets in the United States to be sold as of December 31, 2003
have been presented as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations. Prior year results have also been reclassified to report the results of operations of
the assets to be sold as discontinued operations. Results for these assets reported as
discontinued operations were as follows:

F-26

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

General and administrative expense and interest expense was allocated to discontinued operations
based on the percent of oil and natural gas revenue applicable to discontinued operations to the
total oil and gas revenue.

NOTE 17   INFORMATION ABOUT OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES AND OPERATING SEGMENTS  

We have operations in only one industry segment, the oil and natural gas exploration and
production industry. We are structured along geographic operating segments or regions. As a result,
we have reportable operations in the United States, Western Europe (France) and Eastern Europe
(Hungary, Romania and Turkey). Geographic operating segment income tax expenses have been
determined based on statutory rates existing in the various tax jurisdictions where we have oil and
natural gas producing activities.

We allocate interest expense to our foreign subsidiaries based on advances made to the
subsidiary at the short-term federal rate ( AFR ). At December 31, 2005 the annual AFR rate was
4.39%.

We allocate a portion of certain United States based employees salaries to our foreign
subsidiaries. The amount allocated is based on an estimate of the time that employee has spent
working on that on that subsidiary. We periodically review these percentages to make sure that our
assumptions are still valid.

The following tables provide the geographic operating segment data required by Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information. The United States segment data for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003
includes discontinued operations sold in January 2004 through the U. S. mineral royalty asset sale
(see Note 16).

F-27

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

F-28

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(1) 
       
     Amounts reflect reclassifications to discontinued operations. 

F-29

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(1) 
       
     Amounts reflect reclassifications to discontinued operations. 

F-30

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The following table reconciles the total assets for reportable segments to consolidated
assets.

NOTE 18   SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND NATURAL GAS RESERVES AND STANDARDIZED MEASURE INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

We retain an independent engineering firm to provide annual year-end estimates of our future
net recoverable oil and natural gas reserves. Estimated proved net recoverable reserves we have
shown below include only those quantities that we can expect to be commercially recoverable at
prices and costs in effect at the balance sheet dates under existing regulatory practices and with
conventional equipment and operating methods. Proved developed reserves represent only those
reserves that we may recover through existing wells. Proved undeveloped reserves include those
reserves that we may recover from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells on which we
must make a relatively major expenditure for recompletion or secondary recovery operations.

Discounted future cash flow estimates like those shown below are not intended to represent
estimates of the fair value of oil and natural gas properties. Estimates of fair value should also
consider probable reserves, anticipated future oil and natural gas prices, interest rates, changes
in development and production costs and risks associated with future production. Because of these
and other considerations, any estimate of fair value is necessarily subjective and imprecise

F-31

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

F-32

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

We have summarized the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to our
proved oil and natural gas reserves. We have based the following summary on a valuation of proved
reserves using discounted cash flows based on year-end prices, costs and economic conditions and a
10% discount rate. The additions to proved reserves from purchase of reserves in place and new
discoveries and extensions could vary significantly from year to year; additionally, the impact of
changes to reflect current prices and costs of proved reserves in prior years could also be
significant. Accordingly, investors should not view the information presented below as an estimate
of the fair value of our oil and natural gas properties, nor should investors consider the
information indicative of any trends.

The prices of oil and natural gas at December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 used in the above
table, were $56.24, $37.55 and $27.87 per Bbl of oil, respectively, and $6.98, $5.99 and $5.90 per
Mcf of natural gas, respectively.
The following are the principal sources of change in the standardized measure:

F-33

Table of Contents   

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

F-34

<EX-4.3>
 2
 d34156exv4w3.htm
 WARRANT NO. 30

exv4w3 

EXHIBIT 4.3 

THIS WARRANT AND THE SECURITIES ISSUABLE UPON THE EXERCISE HEREOF HAVE NOT BEEN
REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933. THEY MAY NOT BE SOLD, OFFERED FOR
SALE, PLEDGED, HYPOTHECATED, OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT PURSUANT TO AN
EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, OR AN OPINION OF
COUNSEL SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY THAT REGISTRATION IS NOT REQUIRED UNDER SUCH ACT
OR UNLESS SOLD PURSUANT TO RULE 144 UNDER SUCH ACT. 

WARRANT TO PURCHASE COMMON STOCK 
of TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

This Warrant is issued to Rich Brand ( Holder ) by Toreador Resources Corporation, a Delaware
corporation (the  Company ), on July 22, 2004 (the  Warrant Issue Date ) as a replacement in part
for Warrant No. 027 which the Holder assigned the right to acquire 400 shares of Common Stock (as
defined herein). This Warrant is issued pursuant to the terms of that certain Letter Agreement
dated July 19, 2004, by and between the Company and the Holder.

1.  Purchase Shares . Subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, the
Holder is entitled, upon surrender of this Warrant at the principal office of the Company (or at
such other place as the Company shall notify the holder hereof in writing), to purchase from the
Company up to Twenty-Three Thousand Six Hundred (23,600) fully paid and nonassessable shares of
Common Stock, par value $0.15625, of the Company, as constituted on the Warrant Issue Date (the
 Common Stock ). The number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to this Section 1 (the
 Shares ) shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 10 hereof.

2.  Exercise Price . The purchase price for the Shares shall be $8.20 per share, as
adjusted from time to time pursuant to Section 10 hereof (the  Exercise Price ).

3.  Exercise Period . This Warrant shall be exercisable commencing on the Warrant Issue
Date and shall expire and be of no further force or effect at 4:30 pm (Dallas time) on July 22,
2009 (the  Expiration Date ).

4.  Method of Exercise . While this Warrant remains outstanding and exercisable in
accordance with Section 3 above, the Holder may exercise, in whole or in part, the purchase rights
evidenced hereby. Such exercise shall be effected by:

(a) the surrender of the Warrant, together with a duly executed copy of the form of Notice of
Election attached hereto, to the Secretary of the Company at its principal office; and

(b) the payment to the Company of an amount equal to the aggregate Exercise Price for the
number of Shares being purchased by certified check or bank draft.

5.  Put Right . At any time after July 22, 2008 and ending on the Expiration Date or
upon a Change of Control (as defined below) of the Company that occurs prior to the Expiration
Date, upon a written request of the Holder and surrender of the Warrant, to the extent permitted by
law, the Company shall pay to the Holder by certified check or bank draft an amount per Share equal
to the Closing Price (as defined below) on the date of receipt by the Company of the written
request minus the Exercise Price multiplied by the number of Shares in which the Warrant is
exercisable immediately prior to surrender.

Change of Control  means the occurrence of any of the following in one or a series of
related transactions: (i) an acquisition after the date hereof by an individual or legal
entity or  group  (as described in Rule 13d-5(b)(1) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended) of more than one-half of the issued and

outstanding voting rights or equity interests in the Company; (ii) during any consecutive
twelve (12) calendar months, the replacement (for reasons other than death) of more than
one-half of the members who at the beginning of such period constituted the Company s board
of directors in a single election of directors that is not approved by those individuals who
are members of the board of directors on the date hereof (or other directors previously
approved by such individuals); (iii) a merger or consolidation of the Company or a sale of
more than one-half of the assets of the Company in one or a series of related transactions,
unless following such transaction or series of transactions, the holders of the Company s
securities prior to the first such transaction continue to hold a majority of the voting
rights and equity interests in the surviving entity or acquirer of such assets; (iv) a
recapitalization, reorganization or other transaction involving the Company or any
subsidiary that constitutes or results in a transfer of more than one-half of the voting
rights or equity interests in the Company, unless following such transaction or series of
transactions, the holders of the Company s securities prior to the first such transaction
continue to hold at least one-half of the voting rights and equity interests in the
surviving entity or acquirer of such assets; (v) consummation of a  Rule 13e-3 transaction 
as defined in Rule 13e-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with respect
to the Company, or (vi) the execution by the Company or its controlling shareholders of an
agreement providing for or reasonably likely to result in any of the foregoing events.

Closing Price  means, for any date, the price determined by the first of the following
clauses that applies: (a) if the Common Stock is then listed or quoted on an Eligible Market
(as defined below), the closing sale price per share of the Common Stock for such date (or
the nearest preceding date) on the primary Eligible Market on which the Common Stock is then
listed or quoted; (b) if prices for the Common Stock are then quoted on the OTC Bulletin
Board, the closing sale price per share of the Common Stock for such date (or the nearest
preceding date) so quoted; (c) if prices for the Common Stock are then reported in the  Pink
Sheets  published by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated (or a similar organization
or agency succeeding to its functions of reporting prices), the most recent sale price per
share of the Common Stock so reported; or (d) in all other cases, the fair market value of a
share of Common Stock as determined by an independent appraiser selected in good faith and
paid for by the Holder.

Eligible Market  means any of the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, the
Nasdaq National Market or the Nasdaq SmallCap Market.

6.  Accredited Investor . On the date hereof, the Holder is an  accredited investor  as
defined in Rule 501(a) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ).
Immediately prior to any exercise of the Warrant pursuant to Section 4, the Holder shall provide
the Company with a representation that it is still an  accredited investor  as defined in Rule
501(a) under the Securities Act.

7.  Investment Representation . Unless the Shares are issued to the Holder in a
transaction registered under applicable federal and state securities laws, by its execution hereof,
the Holder represents and warrants to the Company that all Shares which may be purchased hereunder
will be acquired by the Holder for investment purposes for its own account and not with any intent
for resale or distribution in violation of federal or state securities laws. Unless the Shares are
issued to the Holder in a transaction registered under the applicable federal and state securities
laws, all certificates issued with respect to the Shares shall bear the appropriate restrictive
investment legend and shall be held indefinitely, unless they are subsequently registered under the
applicable federal and state securities laws or the Holder obtains an opinion of counsel, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Company and its counsel, that such registration is not required.

8.  Certificates for Shares . Upon the exercise of the purchase rights evidenced by
Section 4 of this Warrant, one or more certificates for the number of Shares so purchased shall be
issued as soon as practicable thereafter (with appropriate restrictive legends, if applicable), and
in any event within thirty (30) days of the delivery of the Notice of Election.

9.  Issuance of Shares . The Company covenants that the Shares, when issued pursuant to
the exercise of this Warrant under Section 4, will be duly and validly issued, fully paid and
nonassessable.

2

10.  Adjustment of Exercise Price and Number of Shares . The number of and kind of
securities purchasable upon exercise of this Warrant and the Exercise Price shall be subject to
adjustment from time to time as follows:

(a)  Subdivisions, Combinations and Other Issuances . If the Company shall at any time
prior to the expiration of this Warrant subdivide its Common Stock, by split-up or otherwise, or
combine its Common Stock, or issue additional shares of its Common Stock as a dividend or
distribution with respect to any shares of its Common Stock, the number of Shares issuable on the
exercise of this Warrant shall forthwith be proportionately increased in the case of a subdivision
or stock dividend or distribution, or proportionately decreased in the case of a combination.
Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the purchase price payable per share, but the
aggregate purchase price payable for the total number of Shares purchasable under this Warrant (as
adjusted) shall remain the same. Any adjustment under this Section 10(a) shall become effective at
the close of business on the date the subdivision or combination becomes effective, or as of the
record date of such dividend or distribution, or in the event that no record date is fixed, upon
the making of such dividend or distribution.

(b)  Reclassification, Reorganization and Consolidation . In case of any
reclassification, capital reorganization, or change in the Common Stock of the Company (other than
as a result of a subdivision, combination, or stock dividend provided for in Section 10(a) above),
then, as a condition of such reclassification, reorganization, or change, lawful provision shall be
made, and duly executed documents evidencing the same from the Company or its successor shall be
delivered to the Holder, so that the Holder shall have the right at any time prior to the
expiration of this Warrant to purchase, at a total price equal to that payable upon the exercise of
this Warrant, the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities and property receivable
in connection with such reclassification, reorganization, or change by a holder of the same number
of shares of Common Stock as were purchasable by the Holder immediately prior to such
reclassification, reorganization, or change. In any such case appropriate provisions shall be made
with respect to the rights and interest of the Holder so that the provisions hereof shall
thereafter be applicable with respect to any shares of stock or other securities and property
deliverable upon exercise hereof, and appropriate adjustments shall be made to the purchase price
per share payable hereunder, provided the aggregate purchase price shall remain the same.

(c)  Carry Over of Adjustments . No adjustment of the Exercise Price shall be made if
the amount of such adjustment shall be less than 1% of the Exercise Price in effect immediately
prior to the event giving rise to the adjustment, provided, however, that in such case any
adjustment that would otherwise be required then to be made shall be carried forward and shall be
made at the time of and together with the next subsequent adjustment which, together with any
adjustment so carried forward, shall amount to at least 1% of the Exercise Price.

(d)  Discretionary Reduction in Exercise Price . The Company may at any time or from
time to time reduce the Exercise Price of the Warrant.

(e)  Notice of Adjustment . Upon any adjustment of the number of Shares and upon any
adjustment of the Exercise Price, then and in each such case the Company shall give written notice
thereof to the Holder, which notice shall state the Exercise Price and the number of Shares or
other securities subject to the unexercised Warrant resulting from such adjustment, and shall set
forth in reasonable detail the method of calculation and the facts upon which such calculation is
based.

(f)  Other Notices . In case at any time prior to the Expiration Date:

(i) 
       
     the Company shall declare any
dividend or distribution upon its shares of Common Stock payable
in shares; 

(ii) 
       
     the Company shall offer for
subscription pro rata to the holders of its shares of Common
Stock any additional shares of any class or other rights; 

(iii) 
       
     there shall be any capital
reorganization or reclassification of the capital stock of the
Company, or consolidation, amalgamation or 

3

merger of the Company with, or sale of all or substantially
all of its assets to, another corporation; or 

(iv) 
       
     there shall be a voluntary
dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the Company, 

then, in any one or more of such cases, the Company shall give to the Holder (A) at least 10 days 
prior written notice of the date on which a record date shall be taken for such dividend,
distribution or subscription rights or for determining rights to vote in respect of any such
reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger, amalgamation, sale, dissolution,
liquidation or winding-up and (B) in the case of any such reorganization, reclassification,
consolidation, merger, amalgamation, sale, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up, at least 10
days  prior written notice of the date when the same shall take place. Such notice in accordance
with the foregoing clause (A) shall also specify, in the case of any such dividend, distribution or
subscription rights, the date on which the holders of shares of Common Stock shall be entitled
thereto, and such notice in accordance with the foregoing clause (B) shall also specify the date on
which the holders of shares of Common Stock shall be entitled to exchange their shares of Common
Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such reorganization, reclassification,
consolidation, merger, amalgamation, sale, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up, as the case may
be.

(g)  Shares to be Reserved . The Company will at all times keep available, and reserve
out of its authorized shares of Common Stock, solely for the purpose of issue upon the exercise of
the Warrant, such number of Shares as shall then be issuable upon the exercise of the Warrant. The
Company will take all such actions as may be necessary to ensure that all such Shares may be so
issued without violation of any applicable requirements of the applicable Eligible Market. The
Company will take all such actions as are within its power to ensure that all such Shares may be so
issued without violation of any applicable law.

11.  No Fractional Shares or Scrip . No fractional shares or scrip representing
fractional shares shall be issued upon the exercise of this Warrant, but in lieu of such fractional
shares the Company shall make a cash payment therefor on the basis of the Exercise Price then in
effect.

12.  No Stockholder Rights . Prior to exercise of this Warrant, the Holder shall not be
entitled to any rights of a stockholder with respect to the Shares, including (without limitation)
the right to vote such Shares, receive dividends or other distributions thereon, exercise
preemptive rights or be notified of stockholder meetings, and such holder shall not be entitled to
any notice or other communication concerning the business or affairs of the Company. However,
nothing in this Section 11 shall limit the right of the Holder to be provided the Notices required
under this Warrant.

13.  Participation in Rights Distribution . If at any time, while this Warrant, or any
portion thereof, is outstanding and unexpired, the Company shall issue to all holders of its Common
Stock rights (the  Rights ) entitling the holders thereof to purchase shares of Common Stock, the
Company also shall issue to the Holder identical Rights, with such number of Rights to be issued to
the Holder being based on the number of shares of Common Stock which Holder would then be entitled
to receive if this Warrant had been exercised in full immediately prior to the issuance of the
Rights. Prior to issuing the Rights, the Company shall provide notice to the Holder as set forth
in Section 10(f). In connection with issuing the Rights, the Company will take all necessary
corporate action to at all times keep available and reserve out of its authorized shares of Common
Stock the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Rights.

14.  Transfers of Warrant . The Holder of the Warrants may transfer this Warrant only
to an Affiliate (as defined under Rule 405 promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act) only in
compliance with all applicable federal and state securities laws; provided however, that this
Warrant may only be transferred by the Holder to a maximum of five individuals or entities. No
subsequent transfer of this Warrant by any assignee of the Holder shall be permissible, without the
prior written consent of the Company. In order for a transferee of this Warrant to receive any of
the benefits of such Warrant, the Company must have received notice of such transfer, pursuant to
Section 18 hereof, in the form of assignment attached hereto, accompanied by an opinion of counsel,
which opinion shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company, that an exemption from registration of
this Warrant under the Securities Act and under any applicable state securities law is available.

4

15.  Replacement . Upon receipt of evidence satisfactory to the Company of the loss,
theft, destruction or mutilation of this Warrant and, if requested by the Company, upon delivery of
a bond of indemnity satisfactory to the Company (or, in the case of mutilation, upon surrender of
this Warrant), the Company will issue to the Holder a replacement warrant (containing the same
terms and conditions as this Warrant).

16.  Successors and Assigns . The terms and provisions of this Warrant shall inure to
the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and the Holder hereof and their respective
successors and permitted assigns as set forth in Section 14.

17.  Amendments and Waivers . Any term of this Warrant may be amended and the
observance of any term of this Warrant may be waived (either generally or in a particular instance
and either retroactively or prospectively), with the written consent of the Company and the Holder.

18.  Notices . All notices required under this Warrant shall be deemed to have been
given or made for all purposes (i) upon personal delivery, (ii) upon confirmation receipt that the
communication was successfully sent to the applicable number if sent by facsimile; (iii) one
business day after being sent, when sent by professional overnight courier service, or (iv) five
days after posting when sent by registered or certified mail. Notices to the Company shall be sent
to the principal office of the Company (or at such other place as the Company shall notify the
Holder hereof in writing). Notices to the Holder shall be sent to the address of the Holder on the
books of the Company (or at such other place as the Holder shall notify the Company hereof in
writing).

19.  Captions . The section and subsection headings of this Warrant are inserted for
convenience only and shall not constitute a part of this Warrant in construing or interpreting any
provision hereof.

20.  Governing Law . This Warrant shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Delaware.

5

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Toreador Resources Corporation caused this Warrant to be executed by an
officer thereunto duly authorized.

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 

By:

/s/ Doug W. Weir 

Name:

Doug W. Weir 

Title:

Senior VP and CFO 

Agreed to and Acknowledged by:

/s/ Rich Brand

Rich Brand

6

FORM OF ELECTION TO EXERCISE 

The undersigned hereby irrevocable elects to exercise the number of Warrants of TOREADOR
RESOURCES CORPORATION set out below for the number of Shares (or other property or securities
subject thereto) as set forth below:

(a) Number of Shares to be Acquired:                                             

(b) Exercise Price per Share:                                             

(c) Aggregate Purchase Price   (a) multiplied by (b)  :                                             

and hereby tenders a certified check, bank draft or cash for such aggregate purchase price, and
directs such Shares to be registered and a certificate therefore to be issued as directed below.

DATED this                                              day of                                                                   ,        .

Per:                                             

Direction as to Registration   
 Name of Registered Holder:                                                   
 Address of Registered Holder:                                               

7

FORM OF ASSIGNMENT 

(To be executed by the registered holder if such holder 
desires to transfer the Warrant.)

FOR VALUE RECEIVED                                                                    hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
                                                                  .

(Please print name and address of transferee)

this Warrant, together with all right, title and interest therein, and does hereby irrevocably
constitute and appoint                                                                    Attorney, to transfer the within Warrant on the books
of the within-named Company, with full power of substitution.

Dated:                                                                   , 200    

Signature                                                                   
(Signature must conform in all respect to name of holder  
as specified on the face of the Warrant.) 

(Insert Social Security or Other Identifying Number of  
Holder) 

8

</EX-4.3>

<EX-12.1>
 3
 d34156exv12w1.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exv12w1 

EXHIBIT 12.1 

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 d34156exv21w1.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES

exv21w1 

EXHIBIT 21.1

TOREADOR RESOURCES CORPORATION 
AND SUBSIDIARIES AS OF MARCH 2006

Company 
       
     Jurisdiction 

Toreador Resources Corporation

Delaware 

Toreador Exploration   Production Inc.

Texas 

Tormin, Inc.

Delaware 

Toreador Acquisition Corporation.

Delaware 

Toreador Energy France SCS

France 

Toreador Hungary Ltd.

Hungary 

Toreador Exploration Ltd.

Cayman islands 

Toreador Romania Ltd.

Cayman islands 

Toreador Resources Corp. USA Sucursaia Bucuresti (Branch Office)

Romania 

Toreador Holdings International SRL

Barbados 

Toreador Trinidad Exploration   Production Ltd

Trinidad 

Toreador Turkey Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Madison Oil Company

Delaware 

Madison (Turkey), Inc.

Delaware 

Madison Petroleum, Inc.

Delaware 

Madison Oil Company Europe

Delaware 

Madison Oil France, S.A.S.

France 

Capstone Royalty of Texas, LLC (50%)

Texas 

EnergyNet.com, Inc.(35%)

Texas 

ePsolutions (45%)

Texas 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 d34156exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF HEIN & ASSOCIATES LLP

exv23w1 

EXHIBIT 23.1

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 No.
333-88475; Form S-8 No. 333-39309; Form S-8 No. 333-14145, Form S-8 No. 333-53632; Form S-8 No.
333-99959; Form S-8 No. 333-125050; Form S-3 No. 333-52522; Form S-3 No. 333-65720; Form S-3 No.
333-118376; Form S-3 No. 333-118377 and Form S-3 No. 333-129628) of Toreador Resources
Corporation and of our report dated March 23, 2006, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements of Toreador Resources Corporation included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the
year ended December 31, 2005.

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 6
 d34156exv23w2.htm
 CONSENT OF LAROCHE PETROLEUM CONSULTANTS, LTD.

exv23w2 

EXHIBIT 23.2

CONSENT OF LAROCHE PETROLEUM CONSULTANTS, LTD., 
INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ENGINEERS 

As independent petroleum engineers, we hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in
the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-14145, 333-39309, 333-88475, 333-53632,
333-99959 and 333-125050) and on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-52522, 333-65720, 333-118376, 333-118377 and
333-129628) of Toreador Resources Corporation of our estimates of reserves included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K and to all references to our firm included in this Annual Report.

/s/ LAROCHE PETROLEUM CONSULTANTS 

LAROCHE PETROLEUM CONSULTANTS, LTD. 

Dallas, Texas 
March 30, 2006

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 d34156exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, G. Thomas Graves III, President and Chief Executive Officer of Toreador Resources Corporation,
certify that:

(1) 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Toreador Resources Corporation; 

(2) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

(3) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operation and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

(4) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonable likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

(5) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006 

/s/ G. Thomas Graves III 

G. Thomas Graves III 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 d34156exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Douglas W. Weir, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Toreador Resources
Corporation, certify that:

(1) 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Toreador Resources Corporation; 

(2) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

(3) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operation and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

(4) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonable likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

(5) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006 

/s/ Douglas W. Weir 

Douglas W. Weir 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.3>
 9
 d34156exv31w3.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF ACCOUNTING OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w3 

EXHIBIT 31.3

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Charles J. Campise, Vice President   Accounting and Chief Accounting Officer of Toreador
Resources Corporation, certify that:

(1) 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Toreador Resources Corporation; 

(2) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

(3) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operation and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

(4) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonable likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

(5) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006 

/s/ Charles J. Campise 

Charles J. Campise 
Vice President   Accounting and Chief Accounting Officer 
(Principal Accounting Officer) 

</EX-31.3>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 d34156exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO, CFO AND CHIEF ACCOUNTING OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350,
Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code), each of the undersigned officers of Toreador Resources
Corporation (the  Company ), does hereby certify, to such officer s knowledge, that:

the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 (the  Form 10-K ) of the
Company fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in
all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as of, and
for, the periods presented in the Form 10-K.

Dated: March 31, 2006

/s/ G. Thomas Graves III 

G. Thomas Graves III 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: March 31, 2006

/s/ Douglas W. Weir 

Douglas W. Weir 

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Dated: March 31, 2006

/s/ Charles J. Campise 

Charles J. Campise 

Vice President   Accounting and Chief Accounting Officer 

The foregoing certification is being furnished as an exhibit to the Form 10-K pursuant to Item
601(b)(32) of Regulation S-K and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and
(b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code) and, accordingly, is not being
filed as part of the Form 10-K for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company, whether made
before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.

</EX-32.1>

