<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_924168_0001104659-06-021292_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2051213</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>314619</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1195425</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>44</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021292.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331161711
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021292
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FIBERSTARS INC /CA/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000924168
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRIC LIGHTING & WIRING EQUIPMENT [3640]
		IRS NUMBER:				943021850
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-24230
		FILM NUMBER:		06729116

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		44259 NOBEL DRIVE
		CITY:			FREMONT
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94538
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5104900719

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		44259 NOBEL DRIVE
		CITY:			FREMONT
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94538

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 RsxpDxPyXd1KSycpZGCuZ5zpuz4+Wwt+EGY0Rvj66UlkmcRfow9pyPEP1HJwsHFn
 80IqNudB3Vrd3WN0kLN5VA==

 0001104659-06-021292.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-3144_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, DC 20549   

Form 10-K   

Commission
file number 0-24230   

FIBERSTARS, INC.   

  (Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)  

California   

94-3021850   

(State or other jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or organization)  

Identification
  No.)  

32000 Aurora Road, Solon,
OH 44139   

  (Address of principal
executive offices) (Zip Code)  

  Registrant s telephone
number, including area code:   (440) 715-1300    

  Securities registered under
section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:   None    

  Securities registered under
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act:  

  Title of Each Class  

   Common
Stock, $0.0001 par value   

   Series A
Participating   

   Preferred
Stock   

   Purchase
Rights   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes   o    No   x  

  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.  Yes   o    No   x  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   x    No   o  

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendments to this Form 10-K.   o  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See
definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  

  Large accelerated filer   o                Accelerated
filer     o                Non-accelerated
filer  .   x  

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act)  Yes   o    No   x  

  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting
common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately
$71,896,000 as of June 30, 2005 (based upon the last trading price of the
Common Stock of registrant on the Nasdaq National Market as of that date).
Shares of common stock held as of June 30, 2005 by each director and
executive officer of the registrant, as well as shares held by each holder of
more than 10% of the common stock known to the registrant, have been excluded
for purposes of the foregoing calculation. This calculation does not reflect a
determination that any person is an affiliate of the registrant for any other
purpose.  

  As of March 22, 2006, there were
11,310,910 shares of the registrant s Common Stock outstanding.  

   DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   

  Items 10 (as to directors
and Section 16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance), 11, 12
(as to Beneficial Ownership), 13 and 14 of Part III of this Report on Form 10-K
incorporates information by reference from registrant s definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection
with the solicitation of proxies for registrant s 2006 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held June 15, 2006.  

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   

   When used in this
Report, the words  expects,   anticipates,   estimates,   plans,   intends  and
similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements include, but are not limited to, statements as to our     competitive
position, future operating results, net sales growth, expected operating
expenses and capital expenditures, gross product margin improvement, sources of
revenues, anticipated credits from government contracts, product development and
enhancements, liquidity and cash reserves, our reliance upon a limited number
of   customers,
our accounting policies, the effect of recent accounting announcements, the
development and marketing of new products, relationships with customers and
distributors, relationships with, dependence upon   and the ability to obtain
components from suppliers, as well as our remarks concerning our ability to
compete in the fiber optic lighting market, the evolution and future size of
the fiber optic lighting market, seasonal fluctuations, plans for and expected
benefits of outsourcing and offshore manufacturing, trends in the price and
performance of fiber optic lighting products, the benefits and performance of
our lighting products, the adequacy of our current facilities, our strategy
with regard to protecting our proprietary technology, our ability to retain
qualified employees; and the risks set forth below under Item 1A,  Risk Factors .
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. We
expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any
updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein
to reflect any change in our   expectations with regard
thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such
statement is based. 

  Fiberstars , BritePak , OptiCore , Lightly Expressed ,
Jazz Light , FX Light , FX Spa Light  and Fiberstars EFO  are our registered
trademarks. We also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations
in this document.  

  All references to  Fiberstars, 
 we,   us,   our  or  the Company  means Fiberstars, Inc. and its
subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent
company.  

     PART I   

     Item 1. Business   

     Overview   

  Fiberstars designs, develops, manufactures and markets
fiber optic lighting systems for wide-ranging uses in both the general
commercial and the pool and spa lighting markets. Our Efficient Fiber Optic, or
EFO, system, introduced in 2004, offers greater energy savings, heat
dissipation, and maintenance cost benefits over conventional lighting for
multiple applications. Accordingly, we believe our EFO system will become a
leading technology in accent lighting and numerous niche lighting markets.  

  We currently
operate in two principal markets, Commercial Lighting and Pool and Spa
Lighting, with several product lines:  

               Commercial Lighting.   Within this
market we sell both EFO lighting systems and traditional fiber optic lighting
systems used in commercial applications. 

                Energy Efficient Accent Lighting.   We
market our EFO lighting systems primarily as an energy efficient alternative to
MR-16 halogen lamps used for accent lighting in retail and commercial
building settings. We also target niche lighting markets such as general
illumination on naval ships, adjustable spot lights used on loading docks and
display and freezer case lighting. 

                Specialty Decorative and Special Effects
Lighting.   We market our traditional small diameter fiber optic
systems in specialty and special effects lighting applications including case
lighting, decorative and neon alternative applications and signage. 

               Pool and Spa Lighting.   We market
both our traditional fiber optic lighting products, developed prior to the
introduction of EFO, and other energy efficient non-fiber optic systems for
underwater  

2     

lighting applications. Our
underwater lighting systems are installed in pools and spas built by pool
builders throughout the United States and Canada.  

  Our fiber optic lighting systems combine three
components an illuminator, fiber and fixtures that are used in configurations
designed for specific applications. The electrically powered illuminator
encases the lamp and serves to generate and efficiently focus light to the
fiber. Currently our illuminators use HID or halogen lamps, but in the future
may be adapted to use any energy efficient light sources, including LEDs. Our
proprietary large diameter fiber cables used in our EFO systems connect to the
illuminator and are designed to emit light either at the end of the fiber as a
point of light, or along the length of the fiber, similar in effect to neon
lighting. We currently market our EFO system with six or eight fiber cables
connected to the illuminator.  

  Our EFO fiber optic lighting system consists of a
central source of illumination connected to multiple end-points via fiber
cables. The electrically powered illuminator lamp encases our patented
collectors that have our proprietary nanotechnology coating layers enabling the
efficient capture of over 90% of the light from the lamp. Our large diameter
fiber cables, manufactured through a proprietary continuous extrusion process,
connect to the illuminator and efficiently deliver 95% of the light from the
illuminator to the fiber while virtually eliminating infrared and ultraviolet
light that negatively affect perishable goods and works of art. Our proprietary
couplers attach the end-points of our fiber cables to the fixtures, enhancing
compatibility with new fixtures. The efficiency benefits provided by these
components coupled with our proprietary fiber optic extrusion manufacturing
process distinguish our EFO system from other fiber optic lighting systems and
traditional lighting technologies for numerous lighting applications. As a
result of these developments, we believe we are the first to market energy efficient
fiber optic lighting systems for specific applications such as accent lighting
used in retail and commercial settings.  

  The increasingly stringent
regulatory environment, high energy prices, retail and commercial demand for
accent lighting and recent innovations in our fiber optic for lighting systems
position our products to address a meaningful segment of the general lighting
market.  

     Industry Overview   

  The worldwide market for
electric lamps, lighting fixtures and ballasts was approximately $79 billion in
2001 and expected to grow to $100 billion by 2006, representing 5% annual
growth, according to a 2003 report by The Freedonia Group, Inc., a market
research firm. We estimate that our current addressable market for EFO
technology is currently greater than $5 billion. This addressable market
includes halogen accent lighting, freezer case lighting in supermarkets, dock
lighting and display case lighting. The limitations of the lighting products
commonly used for these applications, combined with rising energy costs and
increasingly stringent energy regulations, present a compelling opportunity for
alternative lighting solutions in these niche markets.  

   Impact of Energy
Regulation in the Lighting Industry   

  In the United States, electricity consumption is projected
to increase from 3.5 billion kilowatt hours in 2003 to 5.2 billion kilowatt
hours in 2025, according to the United States Department of Energy s
International Energy Outlook. According to the report, electricity consumption
in the commercial sector is the fastest growing segment at 2.5% annually
through 2025. The Department of Energy in a 2005 report estimated that lighting
in the United States accounts for approximately 27% of total electricity
consumed by commercial end-users. The electric power industry faces the
challenge of satisfying increasing demand while being constrained by the
limited supply of fossil fuels as well as infrastructure limitations affecting
generation, transmission and distribution, all of which may result in higher
electricity prices.  

  These challenges
have resulted in a variety of new government regulations and initiatives
intended to curtail energy consumption. This growing global concern with energy
utilization together with energy   

3     

conservation
regulation has encouraged the development and implementation of more energy
efficient lighting solutions. Some of the key regulations and initiatives
affecting the lighting industry include:  

               ASHRAE-IESNA Standard 90.1.     In July 2004, the
Department of Energy adopted the 1999 version of ASHRAE-IESNA Standard 90.1,
requiring all commercial and government buildings to reduce lighting power
density as measured by watts per square foot. For example, this standard
generally mandated a reduction in power density to 1.9 watts per square foot
for both new construction and renovations requiring building permits for retail
buildings in the United States. This standard was lowered for retail buildings
to 1.9 watts per square foot from the approximately 3.3 watts per square foot
under the 1989 version adopted for retail buildings in some states. 

               The Energy Policy Act of 2005.     This recently enacted
federal legislation provides tax incentives to commercial and residential
electricity consumers for making energy efficiency improvements well beyond present
standards in their buildings and homes. The incentives are in place for a two
year period beginning January 1, 2006. 

               State Legislation.     Certain states, such as California,
have adopted standards that exceed the ASHRAE-IESNA 90.1 minimum requirements.
California s updated Title 24, which took effect in October 2005, requires
residential and non-residential buildings to use energy efficient lighting that
meets minimum lumens per watt. 

               LEED U.S. Green Building Council s Leadership in Energy  
Environmental Design.     LEED is a self-assessing system designed
for energy efficiency rating of new and existing commercial, institutional and
high-rise residential buildings. LEED evaluates the environmental performance
of   the
entire building over its life cycle, providing a definitive standard for what
constitutes a  green    building. To receive LEED certification, the
building must meet, among other things, ASHRAE-   IESNA Standard 90.1
lighting requirements. For each reduction of 10% beyond the 90.1   requirements,
the project receives an additional point toward achieving LEED certification.
In   certain
localities, a building must receive a LEED certificate in order to receive a
building permit. 

  Recent legislation has
limited energy consumption available for lighting, which conflicts with the
desire of the user to maintain or even increase effective   lighting. For example, retailers value
effective accent lighting as a critical element in showcasing merchandise and
promoting sales, but are constrained by the   current
regulatory environment. Accent lighting is also essential in commercial and
other buildings, including office buildings, schools, hospitals and casinos,   which use lighting as a design element in
hallways, entryways, conference rooms and to display artwork. To maintain or obtain
effective, high quality lighting,  these
retailers and other commercial users need a lighting solution that meets
increasingly stringent regulatory requirements.   

   Overview of
Lighting Technologies   

  Multiple lighting technologies have evolved to address
a variety of lighting requirements. Each of these technologies has
characteristics and limitations that affect its utility in a given application.  

    Incandescent.          Due to its simplicity of use and low initial cost,
the incandescent bulb is the dominant light source used in residential lighting
in the United States. The basic technology for incandescent bulbs was created
in the 19th century and further developed in the mid 20th century with the
introduction of the Tungsten filament and gas fill. The MR-16 halogen
lamp, one type of an incandescent lamp, has commonly been used in accent
lighting. Incandescent bulbs including MR-16s have the following general
characteristics: 

             Produce
a high quality bright, white light; 

4     

Emit significant heat,
infrared and ultraviolet radiation that can damage perishable goods and
increases room temperature adding to cooling 
costs; and  

             Require
significant electricity and frequent replacement due to short life. 

    Fluorescent.          The fluorescent lamp is an energy efficient
alternative to incandescent lamps commonly used in general illumination. The
fluorescent lamp was initially developed in the 1930s using mercury atoms in a
low pressure discharge. The compact fluorescent lamp, developed in the 1980s,
produces notably higher lumens per watt than an incandescent lamp. Fluorescent
lamps have the following general characteristics: 

             Offer
high energy efficiency with modern fluorescent lamps reaching efficiencies of
about 80 lumens per watt; 

             Produce
a non-directional beam of light not ideal for accent lighting; 

             Emit
light with unfavorable color characteristics; 

             Contain
mercury, which leads to disposal issues; and 

             Exhibit
lower light output and a shorter life in a cold environment. 

    Solid State Lighting.          Invented in 1962, LEDs are only now beginning to show
promise as a light source. For example, LEDs are increasingly replacing
incandescent lamps in traffic signals and as brake and high mount stop lights
for new cars. As the technology develops further, some industry professionals
predict that LED s, performance characteristics will equal or potentially
exceed those of fluorescent lamps. Current LEDs have the following general
characteristics: 

             Offer
energy efficiency comparable to halogen sources; 

             Demonstrate long life
cycles; and 

             Emit low luminosity. 

    High-Intensity Discharge.           The newest white light source, the metal halide HID lamp, was invented in
1966 and is used extensively in outdoor applications, automotive headlamps and
general lighting sources in large indoor buildings such as warehouses. Metal
halide HID lamps with efficiencies exceeding incandescent and fluorescent lamps
in lumens per watt are available commercially. Newer versions of HID lamps are
being used as interior spotlights for commercial applications. Metal halide HID
lamps have the following general characteristics:  

             Emit high quality white
light; 

             Offer
energy efficiency; 

             Provide cost effectiveness
in larger light packages, but are too expensive when packaged in a smaller
light source partly due to their  expensive
ballasts; and  

             Radiate significant heat. 

   Emergence of Fiber
Optic Lighting   

  Given the limitations of traditional lighting
technologies and the opportunity to develop an alternative lighting solution
for particular applications, Fiberstars and other companies began to experiment
in the 1980s with connecting optical fiber to MR-16 halogen lamps. The
primary applications for early fiber optic technology had relatively low light
output and short lamp life, and were limited to color illumination in swimming
pools and commercial decorative markets. In the 1990s optical fiber was applied
in combination with metal halide light sources. This led to longer lamp life
and higher light outputs. Additional   

5     

addressable markets were
unattainable with the early fiber optic lighting technology primarily due to
the inefficiency of the system, which in turn was a result of the size and
geometry of the light source, inefficiency of the collection optics and the
small diameter fiber optic cables.  

  In the past several years,
a number of patented technological advancements in our fiber optic lighting
systems have resulted in markedly better performance characteristics enabling
potential for broader use in a number of additional lighting applications. We
believe our EFO fiber optic lighting systems are economically and aesthetically
appealing and well-suited for accent and other niche lighting applications.  

     The Fiberstars Solution   

  Our EFO system
offers energy efficiency, lower life cycle costs and addresses the limitations
of traditional lighting systems in specific applications. Building upon
significant recent breakthroughs in fiber optic lighting technology, the first
commercial deployment of our EFO system to a major customer was in the first
quarter of 2004. Our patented EFO technology addresses the limitations of
current fiber optic lighting technology and meets government regulations for
energy efficiency through a series of technological advances over the last 18
months, including:  

             Improved light output
equivalent to MR-16s while being up to 80% more energy efficient; 

             Introduced a full spectrum
lamp that closely simulates daylight color; 

             Improved
our patented large core fiber extrusion process enabling high volume production
and reducing manufacturing costs; and 

             Developed
application-specific fixtures to meet a broad variety of customers  needs,
including light bars which replicate fluorescent tubes. 

  We believe the intensity
and efficiency of our EFO system improves upon the lighting advantages of
traditional fiber optic lighting by enhancing customers  lighting capabilities.
EFO s accent lighting capabilities allow a retailer to focus the attention of
shoppers to the areas and products that they want to highlight. Physically
separating the heat source from the fixture provides a non-heat radiating
lighting solution that lowers cooling costs associated with lighting and
reduces food spoilage and melting. The benefits of our EFO system have
attracted customers such as Cinemark and Whole Foods Markets and have led
others such as Albertson s, Nordstrom, Publix, Costco and Pathmark to test our
product at select locations.  

   Key Features of Our
EFO System   

    Illuminator.          Most of our commercial illuminators today deploy our
specially designed metal halide HID lamps due to the capacity of these lamps to
provide long life and maximum brightness. Our EFO technology can efficiently
distribute the light from higher wattage metal halide lamps to lower light
levels. We may, however, in the future use other efficient lighting sources as
they become commercially viable. 

    Fiber
Cables.          Our
patented large core fiber has outstanding clarity and consistency with low
attenuation for fiber optic lighting applications. By combining our compound
parabolic collector, or CPC, technology and our large core fiber, our system
delivers light ranging from 30 to 60 lumens per watt, compared to approximately
eight to 15 lumens per watt for a system using traditional MR-16 halogen
lamps. 

    Fixtures.          We produce a broad assortment of adjustable fixtures
that allow the customer to easily adjust the direction and beam spread of the
light for optimal light concentration. 

6  

Key Benefits of Our
EFO System   

    Energy Efficiency.          Our EFO system can provide our customers with accent
lighting that also satisfies government and other regulatory regulations for
energy efficient lighting. EFO technology enables customers to comply with ASHRAE-IESNA
Standard 90.1 and Title 24, qualify for the tax incentives available under the
Energy Policy Act of 2005 and secure LEED certification without sacrificing
intensity and light quality. The following table highlights the electrical
savings of one 70 watt EFO accent light compared to competing lighting
technologies: 

The EFO technology
delivers up to 80% energy savings over halogen or other incandescent lighting
systems commonly used in similar applications. For example, Cinemark reduced
its energy consumption from 5,140 watts to 1,120 watts by installing our EFO
system.  

    Color.          Today our EFO system is available in warm white and
daylight colors. The warm white lamps have a color temperature that is suitable
for interior spaces. The daylight color temperature matches the color
temperature of the light entering spaces through windows. Because we control
the design of the lamp, reflector and output fixture we can tune the system to
deliver a balanced, full spectrum white light. 

    Elimination of Virtually
all Heat Radiation.          Our EFO
system is designed to prevent the infrared and ultraviolet radiation emitted
from the lamp from being funneled through the fiber. As a result, the light
output emits virtually no infrared or ultraviolet light, which produce heat
when absorbed by the target, and the only heat generated is from light output itself,
which is negligible. In contrast, halogen lamps produce approximately nine
watts of heat energy for every one watt of light. 

    Cost Savings.          Our EFO system is able to significantly reduce
maintenance and replacement costs that are normally attributed to traditional
lighting systems. Our EFO systems contain lamps with a long life cycle and need
fewer lamps to light a given area. For example, a customer would have to
replace 20-40 MR-16 halogen lamps for every one EFO lamp annually
based on average retail usage. In addition, because the EFO lamp is physically
separated from the light fixture, when used in applications such as freezer
cases, the quality of light and life of the EFO lamp is not affected by the
freezing temperature. The EFO lamp does not radiate heat in the freezer and the
freezer does not need to be emptied to change the lamp as is the case with
fluorescent lamps. 

   Traditional Fiber Optic Lighting   

  We also sell a line of
traditional fiber optic products that do not use our EFO technology. These
products use an illuminator with HID or halogen light sources and a traditional
imaging optical method that focuses the light from the source into bundles of
stranded fiber. The system is used largely in decorative and display case
lighting applications, where color changing and small points of light are key
features.  

  In addition, we sell a
line of fiber optic pool lighting products designed to add color and decorative
lighting to water features for residential pools. We also   sell a variety of feature lighting systems
that change color and includes an option to synchronize the color changes of
multiple water features. The water feature     

7     

lights are sold in kits that may be used to light
waterfalls, one or more linear water streams, deck lights and landscape lights.  

     Our Strategy   

  Our
objective is to become the leading provider of energy efficient lighting
systems. To achieve this objective, we intend to pursue the following
strategies:  

               Capitalize on the growing need for low cost, energy efficient lighting
systems.     We intend to devote significant resources to our
product development efforts to maximize the energy efficiency and quality of
our lighting systems while reducing costs and enabling our customers to meet
more stringent government regulations. In addition, we plan to continue to hire
personnel with technological expertise in the lighting industry, develop new
proprietary technologies and integrate new and potentially more efficient
lighting sources into our lighting systems. 

               Focus on market niches where the benefits of our technology are most
compelling.     We intend to establish showcase installations to
demonstrate the benefits of our EFO technology and build broader awareness
among our target customer base. For example, we believe the benefits of our EFO
technology will appeal to retailers and supermarket operators, who share
similar needs for highly efficient, flexible accent lighting solutions. To
reach our target markets, we also intend to continue to build a direct sales
force of experienced lighting salespeople. 

               Develop and expand strategic relationships.     To build
awareness of our EFO technology, we intend to market our systems to leading
architects, lighting designers, contractors and other entities that recommend
or install lighting systems, as well as to fixture manufacturers and other
participants in the general lighting market. For example, we have an agreement
with Gensler Architecture, Design   Planning LLC or Gensler, a leading
architecture, design and planning firm, under which Gensler provides consulting
services and helps enhance our visibility and image within the design and
construction communities. In addition, we plan to construct a Fiberstars
Lighting Academy in Solon, Ohio, where lighting specialists, designers and
installers will attend courses on EFO lighting technology and installation. We
believe these marketing efforts will help further adoption of our technology in
the general lighting market. 

               Further
develop and enhance pool lighting products.     We intend to
develop new products that are complementary to traditional pool lights currently
sold by pool equipment suppliers. To maximize the sales of these new products,
we plan to leverage our well-established presence in the pool and spa lighting
market. 

     Our Products   

  We market a wide variety
of fiber optic lighting systems in two general markets: (1) commercial
lighting and (2) pool and spa lighting. Within the commercial lighting
market we sell EFO systems in energy efficient accent lighting and specialty
decorative and special effects lighting. All of our fiber optic lighting
systems are comprised of illuminators, fiber cables and fixtures. Other
customized components for non-EFO systems include under water lenses, color
changing electric pool lights, landscape lighting fixtures and a line of
lighted water features including waterfalls and laminar flow water fountains.  

   EFO System   

  Our EFO system is a new
technology capable of replacing halogen and compact fluorescent lamps in retail
and commercial lighting settings while using only a fraction of the energy.
This lighting system effectively distributes energy efficient light in a
user-friendly manner. The EFO system is based upon a lighting system made up of
several components: a highly efficient light source, proprietary CPC optics,
proprietary FiberJacks coupling technology and our large core fiber.  

8     

The primary light source
for our EFO system is a unique metal halide HID lamp specifically developed in
cooperation with, and is produced exclusively for us by, Advanced Lighting
Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries ( ADLT ) to maximize efficiency,
output and life span. This source produces light with an efficiency of up to 90
lumens per watt, five times the efficiency of the light source used in MR-16
halogen lamps. We believe our metal halide HID lamp is the most energy
efficient source of high quality light currently available and more closely
matches the daylight color spectrum than any other lamp available for fiber
optic applications. Furthermore, our standard metal halide HID lamp has a
current life span of up to 10,000 hours, which is up to five times the typical
life of MR-16 halogen lamps. We also use alternative light sources such
as LEDs in certain applications, and in the future we anticipate utilizing
these light sources in more of our products as they become more energy
efficient.  

  We surround our light
source with a CPC and employ additional coupling optics. We hold eight United
States patents and one corresponding patent in Australia, and two pending
patent applications in the United States and 10 pending corresponding foreign
patent applications, for the CPC and those coupling optics. These collectors
capture more than 90% of the light generated by our light source. Traditional
imaging collectors are only about one half as efficient at delivering light to
their outputs. Our collectors have multiple coating layers each smaller than
100 nanometers, which acting together form a reflective surface. These
nanotechnology coatings were designed to act in conjunction with the other
components in our EFO system. The coatings are applied using a unique
low-pressure chemical vapor deposition process. Together with the patented
shape of our collector, this non-imaging optical system delivers 93%
reflectivity in the visible region. Furthermore, this optical system does not
reflect infrared and ultraviolet radiation, minimizing the amount of infrared
and ultraviolet light that leaves the collector.  

  Glass rods collect the
light output from our collector, piping it outside the housing. These rods act
as thermal barriers and when coated, also become filters. These filters block
virtually all remaining infrared and ultraviolet radiation that comes from the
light source directly or which is reflected by the collectors. The purity of
the glass rods and the filters  anti-reflective coatings allow for a transmission
of up to 95% of the light output from the collector. These rods are the point
of connection to the fiber optic cable. We house the lamp, solid state power
supply, collector and rods in a single package referred to as the illuminator.  

  Unlike most fiber optic
lighting systems, which use bundles of thin strands of fiber, our fiber is
produced as a flexible large core polymer light pipe of varying diameters from
three millimeters to 20 millimeters, depending on the customer s application
requirements. Our large core fiber is manufactured using a new acrylic plastic
composition and proprietary processing method that produces a fiber that can
withstand the heat and light conditions associated with EFO applications. This
manufacturing process enables us to significantly reduce the cost of producing
a continuous extruded large core fiber. We believe our large core fiber is
approximately twice as efficient as a comparable stranded fiber cable.  

  Our EFO system consists of
an illuminator, pre-cut lengths of our large core fiber with the FiberJacks
couplers at either end, and application-specific fixtures. The FiberJacks
couplers allow one end of the fiber to snap into the illuminator, similar to
the way a telephone line connects to a phone jack, and the other end into the
application-specific fixtures. FiberJacks, a proprietary plug-and-play coupling
system, has significantly changed the installation of fiber optic lighting
systems by eliminating the need for on-site fiber preparation, often an
extremely precise process requiring highly skilled technicians. On-site
preparation could result in errors in the alignment of the fibers, which in
turn result in loss of light and variability of illumination at the fixture.
With FiberJacks, all centering and alignment happens automatically, eliminating
these types of losses and variability, and because all of our large core fibers
are cut and finished with the FiberJacks couplers at the factory, the on-site
installer need only unpack the fiber and snap it into the illuminator and the
fixture.  

9     

Application-Specific Fixtures   

  Our EFO system can be
adapted to any number of lighting applications, including those currently using
traditional lighting systems. The primary concerns to commercial end-users,
include quality of light, such as color, luminosity and directional lighting,
and compliance with energy regulation. Our EFO system allows these customers
greater flexibility in meeting their lighting needs within these regulatory
constraints while maintaining the desired effect. The key variable in each of
these applications is the fixture. We have developed FiberJacks compatible
application-specific fixtures that allow the EFO system to be used, for
example, in supermarkets, commercial retail space, freezer cases, in-case
lighting, casinos and commercial accent lighting where traditional lighting
technology was not, or is no longer, capable of meeting the customer s needs.
In addition, our EFO system can provide greater energy efficiency than
traditional lighting systems with the advantages of directional lighting and
focusable beams that traditional lighting systems typically sacrifice to comply
with energy regulation. Many of our output fixtures include optics that allow
consistent repetitive beam adjustment in both angle and beam spread. In
addition, most of our fixtures are clean, simple and small in appearance, and
include a wide range of trim and finishes.  

  These fixtures leverage
the strengths of fiber optics to deliver well-defined beams, in an attractive
package, at a low cost.  

     Traditional
Fiber Optic Products and Other Products   

   Commercial Lighting   

  The primary illuminator in
this product line is currently the 405 illuminator series, which uses a metal
halide HID light source. Other Fiberstars illuminators use a halogen lamp. This
light source may be sold   with a color
wheel that causes the light output to rotate through a variety of colors for
decorative applications, or as a white light system for down lighting or star  ceiling applications. When used in down lighting
or star ceiling applications, the illuminator is coupled with a variety of
bundled fiber diameters and lengths that are encased in a plastic cladding. We
sell a variety of down light and accent light fixtures for this product line.
When used in neon-like decorative applications, the illuminator is coupled with
a variety of diameters and lengths of BritePak , a woven stranded fiber cable
encased in a clear plastic cladding.   

   Pool and Spa Lighting Products   

  Our pool lighting products
are designed to add color and decorative lighting to water features for
residential pools at night. The 6000 series illuminator is the  primary fiber optic product line sold into the
swimming pool market and also uses an HID-based illuminator with a traditional
imaging optical system. The illuminator is used with bundles of stranded fiber
that transfer the light from the illuminator under the pool decking and into
the pool where the end points are encased in a lens fixture. The illuminator is
equipped with a color wheel that changes the color of the light output.   

  We sell a variety of
feature lighting systems that also change color. These are sold with the 2000
illuminator series, which includes an option for synchronizing the color
changes of multiple water features and with outdoor spas. The water feature
lights are sold in kits that may be used to light waterfalls, one or more
linear water streams, deck lights and landscape lights.  

  In addition, we sell the
Jazz Light, a pool light that changes color. This light fits into the wall of
the pool and uses an HID lamp with a color wheel to  provide pool color changes. We also sell portable spa lights that add
decorative color to portable spas.   

   Other Products   

  In our European operations
we sell small lines of other lighting products that use LEDs and small
incandescent light sources. These products are sold into the decorative
lighting market.  

10  

Addressable
Markets and Applications   

  The
following table identifies our current addressable markets, potential
applications and certain customers that have deployed or beta tested our
products:  

Market for EFO 

Potential Applications   

Customers   

Supermarkets  

Accent lighting for
  specialty product display sections such as seafood, meat, wine, freezer
  cases, and any other specialty accent lighting  

Whole Foods Markets,
  Albertsons, Giant Eagle*, Heinens*  

Specialty Retail  

Down lighting and accent
  lighting applied to display items such as clothing racks and display windows  

Nordstrom, JCPenney,
  Tiffany   Co.*, Kessler Jewelers, Ethan Allen*  

Ships  

Replacement of
  fluorescent bulbs for general illumination  

Department of Defense,
  United States Navy  

Commercial Buildings  

Accent and down lighting
  used in entry ways, conference rooms, foyers, and art displays  

Trammel Crow Company,
  Department of Energy*, DARPA Headquarters, ING Headquarters  

Dock Lighting  

Replacement of existing
  hazardous and breakable dock lights used on loading docks  

Giant Eagle, Heinens,
  Pathmark, Publix, Wal-Mart  

Restaurants  

Down lighting and accent
  lighting  

Cinemark  

Hospitals  

Down lighting for lobby,
  waiting room, gift shop and floral cases  

Evergreen Medical Center,
  Valley Childrens Medical Center  

Signs  

Direct view end-point
  stranded fiber  

Movado, Coach  

Museum Lighting  

Used for high quality
  white light without damaging infrared or ultraviolet radiation  

Museum of Jewish
  Heritage, National Inventors Hall of Fame*  

*                       Beta testing
locations. 

11     

Market for Specialty 
  Decorative and Special 
  Effect 

Potential Applications   

Customers   

Retail Case Lighting  

Used in glass display
  cases for a low-heat emission and high quality bright white light  

Tiffany   Co.,
  Swarovski, GEMS, Lalique, Reeds Jewelers, Kessler Jewelers  

Museum Lighting  

Used for high quality
  white light without damaging infrared or ultraviolet radiation  

Smithsonian, National
  Gallery of Art, Museum of Jewish Heritage, Newseum, American Folk Art Museum,
  National Firearms Museum, Victoria and Albert Museum  

Decorative  

Kiosk accent lighting,
  wall wash accent, color light for added attention, direct view side-emitting
  stripes, cove lighting, star fields, glass edge lighting  

Niketown, DillonWorks,
  Disney, Universal, McDonald s, Sony Metreon, Chanel  

Neon Replacement  

Stripes of light going
  around the fa ade, Interior decorative lighting  

Ethan Allen, Sonic, the
  Ft. Lauderdale sea wall  

Signage  

Back light and halo
  letters, side emitting outline or enhancing graphics. Direct view end point
  with special effects color changing or animation  

Whole Foods Markets,
  Gable Signs, SignTech, Disney, Sherwin-Williams, Bally s, Movado, Coach  

Furniture  

Encased in furniture
  such as cabinets  

Ethan Allan, IKEA  

Casinos  

Special effect single
  color or white light only, accent down lighting on game tables, conference
  rooms, same as commercial buildings.  

The Venetian, Harrah s,
  Swinomish Northern Lights, Bellagio, Caesars Palace, Mirage  

Hotels  

Hall way lighting, hotel
  spas, saunas, workout rooms, conference rooms, display cases  

Mandalay Bay, Bellagio  

Pool and Spa  

Safe and efficient
  lighting solution that enables users to change color options in pools and
  spas. Also has ability to light streams of water such as fountains and
  waterfalls  

Approximately 300,000
  pools and spas since 1988  

12  

Sales, Marketing and Distribution   

  Our products are sold
through a combination of a direct sales force paid on commission, independent
sales representatives and distributors into geographic markets throughout the
world. We also are building an internal sales force for the sale of our EFO
systems. We have been successful in hiring experienced salespeople from
industry leading firms such as General Electric in order to facilitate our
sales efforts. As of December 31, 2005, we had 32 sales and sales support
people throughout the United States and Europe. We believe the presence of
salespeople with experience at industry-leading firms provides additional
credibility to our marketing of our products, particularly our EFO systems,
into markets historically dominated by a few large companies. In order to
maximize our sales opportunities, we have developed different sales and
marketing strategies to address various target markets of our products.  

   Commercial Lighting   

   EFO Sales and
Marketing   

  Our initial strategy is to sell our EFO system to
several large accounts. We then plan to leverage these successes into
additional installations with these and new customers. We identify key accounts
through marketing efforts combining advertising, articles in trade publication
and presentations at industry conferences and trade shows. The salespeople
first facilitate the testing of the EFO system with a customer and then work
with the customer for initial and follow-on sales. The typical test sequence is
as follows: demonstrations to key executives within the store chain; small
tests of prototype installations in one store department; larger tests in
multiple departments; and finally, sales to store locations within chain
regions. For example, a grocery store installation can include a variety of
departments including seafood, deli, bakery, meat, wine and produce. These
departments often display their higher margin products around the store s
perimeter. In many cases the store chain derives most of its profit from these
sections of the store and is willing to spend more on highlighting their
merchandise. Early multi-store sales have come from national supermarket chains
and other retailers such as Whole Foods Markets and Cinemark. For example, we
have begun rolling out our EFO system in three out of the eight Whole Foods
Markets regions and our EFO system is installed in 13 stores within these three
regions. We began shipping products to a fourth region in the third quarter of
2005. Similarly, we have outfitted seven Cinemark store locations. We also have
tests underway at 10 additional grocery store chains. Our sales successes have
come as a result of our ability to demonstrate a reduction in energy costs,
help the chain meet energy regulations and provide attractive lighting of the
chain s merchandise.  

  To increase adoption of our EFO technology, we also
intend to market our systems to leading architects, lighting designers,
contractors and other entities that recommend or install lighting systems. For
example, we have agreements with Gensler, a leading architecture, design and
planning firm, under which they assist in designing our EFO system in the
markets in which they do business. Gensler also provides strategic advice to
help us enhance our visibility and image within the design and construction
community as a manufacturer of preferred technology.  

  In addition, some utility companies have embraced our
technology as an energy efficient alternative to traditional lighting systems
and have begun to promote EFO to their customers.  

  We also sell our EFO systems through lighting
representatives who target specific lighting projects in local markets. These
representatives will specify EFO systems as the lighting for projects where EFO s
efficiency and lighting intensity are important. The sales representative firms
are used in the United States, Canada, Europe and other international markets.
We have more than 60 independent lighting representative organizations
throughout the United States for our commercial lighting products, including
EFO and traditional lighting products. These organizations are paid on a
commission basis. Approximately 20 of these representatives account for a large
majority of our commercial lighting product sales. We sell our products in
Europe through two subsidiaries, Crescent Lighting Ltd. in the United Kingdom
and   

13     

Lichtberatung Mann (LBM)
in Germany. These two companies manage our sales operations in Europe, Russia
and the Middle East, which, as in the United States, include sales through
sub-distributors and sales representatives. In other international markets we
sell through regional lighting representatives.  

  We regularly attend
industry conferences at which we give presentations on our products. These
conferences include Lightfair, Food Marketing Institute and other United States
trade shows targeted at our customers, as well as lighting industry trade shows
in Europe, Australia, Japan, India and China. We have had articles on our
products written in LD+A, Architectural Lighting, Architectural Record, Display
and Design Ideas and Visual Merchandising and Store Design. We participate in
studies conducted by independent third parties, including universities and
other educational institutions, designed to evaluate the benefits of our
lighting systems. We also regularly give presentations to lighting designers on
the benefits of EFO systems. In addition to selling into national grocery store
and retail chains directly, our sales strategy for EFO is to convince lighting
designers of EFO s energy saving and accent lighting benefits. Lighting
designers work with architects on larger building projects to ensure that
attractive and up-to-date lighting products are used.  

   Traditional
Commercial Lighting Products   

  Similar to our sales
efforts for EFO systems, we sell our traditional fiber optic commercial
lighting products through independent sales representatives. In addition, as
with our EFO systems, we sell our traditional commercial lighting products in
Europe, Russia and the Middle East through our subsidiaries. We also sell our traditional
commercial lighting products internationally in most industrialized countries
through distributors, including ADLT in Australia, Magic Lite in Canada,
Verslite Hitech Lighting in India, Lighting Limited in China and Mitsubishi and
Koto in Japan.  

   Pool and Spa
Products   

  Our sales and marketing strategy for our pool and spa
lighting products differs from our strategy for our commercial lighting
products. Specifically, although the end-user for our pool and spa products is
primarily the residential market, we primarily focus on sales to pool builders
and pool product distributors by utilizing regional sales representative
organizations that specialize in such sales. Accordingly, our marketing efforts
for swimming pool products depend in large part upon swimming pool builders
recommending our products to their customers and adapting their swimming pool
designs to include our lighting systems. Each representative organization
typically has the exclusive right to sell our products within its territory, receiving
commissions on territory sales. In addition to using regional sales
representatives, we also market our products to regional and national
distributors in the swimming pool market. These distributors stock our products
to fill orders received from swimming pool builders. Some of these distributors
also engage in limited marketing activities in support of our products. We also
market to certain large national pool builders under which they may purchase
systems directly from us and offer our products with their swimming pools. To a
lesser extent, we enter into incentive arrangements to encourage pool builders
to purchase our products. We provide pool builders and independent sales
representatives with marketing tools, including promotional videos, showroom
displays and demonstration systems. We also use trade advertising and direct
mail in addition to an ongoing program of sales presentations to pool builders
and distributors.  

  SCP Pool Corporation, or SCP, the largest pool
distributor in the United States and our largest pool customer, accounted for
approximately 11%, 10% and 11% of our net sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005,
respectively. We expect to maintain our business relationship with SCP;
however, a cessation or substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by this
customer could reduce availability of our products to end users and have a
material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. At December 31,
2005, SCP accounted for 8% of accounts receivable and at December 31,
2004, they accounted for 10% of accounts receivable.  

14     

Sales of our swimming pool
products follow a seasonal pattern. This typically results in higher sales in
the second and fourth quarters as pool distributors stock shelves for the
spring and summer seasons. First quarter pool sales tend to be the lowest for a
given year. Consistent with industry practice, we provide extended terms to
distributors for shipments in the fourth quarter of a given year whereby they
receive products in November and December for which they pay in equal
installments from March through June of the following year. We sell
the majority of our swimming pool lighting systems within the United States,
Canada and Australia. Our pool lighting sales in Europe were not material in
2003, 2004 or 2005.  

     Backlog   

  We typically ship standard
products within a few days after receipt of an order and custom products within
30 to 60 days of order receipt. Generally, there is not a significant
backlog of orders, except at year-end. Our backlog at the end of 2005 was $1,144,000
compared to $1,454,000 at the end of 2004. We anticipate that all of our
backlog as of December 31, 2005 will be filled in 2006.  

     Competition   

  Our products compete with conventional electric
lighting systems and with a variety of lighting products, including
conventional light sources such as incandescent light bulbs as well as metal
halide lamps, LEDs, compact fluorescent lamps and decorative neon lighting. Our
EFO systems compete with conventional electrical lighting systems, other fiber
optic lighting systems, and alternative energy efficient lighting products such
as compact fluorescent lighting. Our traditional commercial lighting products
compete with other lighting products primarily in the areas of down lighting,
accent lighting and signage lighting. Our pool and spa lighting products
compete with other sources of pool and spa lighting in the areas of in-pool
lighting, including colored and color changing underwater lighting, and pool
and spa accent lighting. Principal competitive factors include price,
performance, ease of installation and maintenance requirements.  

  Our EFO systems compete with conventional electrical
lighting technologies and with other sources of accent and down lighting such
as ceramic metal halide, halogen and incandescent bulbs. Our EFO systems
compete with traditional electrical lighting systems and other fiber optics
systems in markets where energy efficiency, ease of installation and lower
maintenance costs are principal competitive factors. Our EFO systems also compete
with manufacturers of lamps and fixtures who may sell their products to
end-users as a system or as individual components.  

  We expect that our ability to compete effectively with
conventional lighting technologies, other fiber optic lighting products and new
lighting technologies that may emerge will depend substantially upon achieving
greater performance and reducing the cost of our EFO systems. Principal
competitors in the EFO market include large lamp manufacturers and lighting
fixture companies whose financial resources substantially exceed ours. These
conventional lighting companies may introduce new or improved products that may
reduce or eliminate some of the competitive advantages of our products. We
anticipate the primary competition to our EFO systems will come from new
technologies which offer increased energy efficiency, lower maintenance costs
and/or lower heat radiation.  

  In traditional commercial lighting, we compete
primarily with local and regional neon lighting manufacturers that, in many cases,
are more established in their local markets than we are. In traditional
commercial lighting, fiber optic lighting products are offered by a number of
smaller companies, some of which compete aggressively on price. Some of these
competitors offer products with performance characteristics similar to our
products. Additionally, some conventional lighting companies now manufacture or
license fiber optic lighting systems that compete with our products. Schott, a
German glass fiber company, markets fiber optic systems in the United States.
Many companies compete with us in Asia, including Philips, Mitsubishi,
Bridgestone and Toray. Mitsubishi also sells our BritePak fiber cables in   

15     

Japan. In addition, we
compete with Toray in the stranded small diameter optical fiber in the special
effects lighting market.  

  In the pool and spa market, we face competition from
suppliers and distributors who bundle lighting and non-lighting products and
sell these packages to pool builders and installers. In addition, we face competition
directly from manufacturers who produce their own lighting systems and
components. For example, in the pool market, competitive products are offered
by Pentair s American Products Division, a major manufacturer of pool equipment
and supplies, as well as Super Vision International. In the spa business, spa
manufacturers install LED lighting systems during the manufacturing process. We
intend to develop new fiber optic lighting products that are complementary to
traditional pool lights currently sold by pool equipment suppliers. To maximize
the sales of these new products, we plan to leverage our well-established
presence in the pool and spa lighting market.  

  While we cannot predict
the impact of competition on our business, we believe that an increase in the
rate of our market expansion may be accompanied by increased competition.
Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced profit margins
and loss of market share, developments which could adversely affect our
operating results. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue
to compete successfully against current and future competitors.  

     Manufacturing and Suppliers   

  We produce our lighting systems through a combination
of internal and outsourced manufacturing and assembly. Our internal lighting
system manufacturing consists primarily of fiber processing, final assembly,
testing and quality control. We use independent contractors to manufacture some
components and sub-assemblies and have worked with a number of our vendors to design
custom components to meet our specific needs. We manage inventories of
domestically produced component parts on a just-in-time basis when practicable.
Our quality assurance program provides for testing of all sub-assemblies at key
stages in the assembly process as well as testing of finished products.  

  In 2004, we initiated a program to manufacture more of
our products offshore, primarily in India and Mexico. As this process
continues, we expect that more high volume products will be sourced offshore where
labor and component cost savings may be achieved. Under a Production Share
Agreement initiated in 2003 and renewed in August 2005, we conduct
contract assembly in Mexico through North American Production Sharing Inc. and
Industrias Unidas de BC, SA de CV, or North American. Under this agreement
North American provides administrative and manufacturing services, including
labor services and the use of manufacturing facilities in Mexico for the
manufacture and assembly of certain of our fiber optic systems and related
equipment and components. Also in 2004, we began obtaining assembled products
from ECDS, located in Cochain, India. These products are received on a purchase
order basis, primarily by ocean shipment and in some cases by air freight.  

  We manufacture our large core fiber products in our
Solon, Ohio facility,  using either an
extrusion process or a cast process.   

  Under a supply agreement, which was last renewed in January 2000,
Mitsubishi is the sole supplier of our small diameter stranded fiber. In sales
volume, our products that incorporate small diameter stranded fiber have
historically been the single largest fiber product that we sell and represent
significant sales volume. We expect to maintain our relationship with
Mitsubishi for the supply of small diameter fiber.  

  ADLT and Fiberstars have had a strategic relationship
since 1997 when ADLT acquired a substantial equity interest in Fiberstars,
which was sold in 2004. Over the years ADLT and Fiberstars have maintained a
collaborative relationship based on ADLT s position as a leading supplier of
metal halide light sources and Fiberstars need for  state of the art  light
source technology. As a result, we rely on ADLT for our metal halide lamps,
reflectors and power supplies. To further this relationship, in September, 2005
we   

16     

entered into several new
agreements with ADLT regarding mutual development collaboration for the
continued improvement in our lamp technology. These agreements also provide for
the purchase of certain coating equipment, the provision to us of certain other
services, the continued supply to us of products manufactured by ADLT, and a
cross-license of certain intellectual property.  

  We also rely on other sole
source suppliers for other lamps, reflectors, remote control devices and power
supplies. Although we cannot predict the effect that the loss of one or more of
such suppliers would have on our results of operations, such loss could result
in delays in the shipment of products and additional expenses associated with
redesigning products and could have a material adverse effect on our operating
results.  

     Research and Development   

  We believe that growth in fiber optic lighting will be
driven by improvements in technology to provide increased light output at lower
costs. Accordingly, we commit much of our research and development resources to
those challenges. We have a research and development team located in Ohio
primarily focused on developing new or improving our current EFO systems. In
addition, we currently have engineers based in California and in India focused
on further developing our pool and spa products.  

  We purchased the
base technology underlying our EFO system in 2000 with the acquisition of
Unison Fiber Optic Lighting Systems LLC. Subsequent to this acquisition,
we have been aided in our development of this technology, as well as the
development of our traditional fiber optics products, by government awards and
contracts. We have commercial rights to all of the technology we develop as
part of these various government research and development contracts. A summary
of work under these contracts is as follows:  

             In
2003, we successfully completed a three-year $2.0 million research and
development project to develop a continuous extrusion process for large core
plastic optical fiber funded under a grant from the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, or NIST, of the United States Department of Commerce. 

             In
February 2003, the DARPA through the Army Aviation and Missile Command, or
AMCOM, awarded to us and our partners a research and development contract for
the development of next-generation light sources, optics, luminaire and
integrated illuminated technologies for its high efficiency distributed
lighting, or HEDLight, project. This contract provides for total payment of up
to $7.8 million, including payments for subcontractors, over three years based
on the achievement of milestones in the development of fiber optic illuminators
and fixtures for installation on ships and aircraft. We have received total
gross funding of $5.3 million under this contract through December 31,
2004. For the year ending December 31, 2005, we qualified for receipt of
gross amounts, including amounts for subcontractors, of up to $2.5 million
($2.0 million, net of subcontractor amounts), subject to attainment of
scheduled milestones. The contract term runs through February 2006. 

             In
April 2003, we announced, together with APL Engineered Materials, a
subsidiary of ADLT, the award of a $2.7 million research and development
contract from DARPA for the development of a new arc discharge light source, a
project to be led by APL Engineered Materials. Of this amount, we expect to
receive $300,000, based on our achievement of certain milestones related to our
contribution to this project. We anticipate that this new light source will
exceed the performance of our existing EFO light source in efficiency,
brightness and color rendering. 

             In June 2004, we
announced an additional $1.0 million in funding from DARPA, dependent on the
achievement of certain milestones, to  develop
an LED version of the HEDLight system. We achieved these milestones and earned
the full $1.0 million by the end of 2005.  

17     

Also
in June 2004, we announced two Small Business Innovative Research, or
SBIR, awards from the Department of Energy. One is to work on an instant-on
version of EFO, and the other is to develop a fast cure for the fiber
production process, which would lower cost and improve throughput on the fiber
production line. These awards were for an initial $100,000 for the first
feasibility phase, and in September 2005 we received approval for an
additional funding of $750,000 for each project for the completion phase. 

             In addition, in October 2005,
further SBIR awards from the Department of Defense under DARPA totaling
$200,000 were obtained to further explore improvements to lamp coatings and
design and to further research materials and processing techniques for the
Company s Continuously Extruded Large Core Fiber processing method. 

             Net
of payments to subcontractors, we received from DARPA aggregate payments of
$2.0 million, in 2005, $2.5 million in 2004 and $1.5 million in 2003. 

  On September 19, 2005, we entered into agreements
with ADLT regarding development assistance to be provided to us by ADLT and by
us to ADLT. Under these agreements, ADLT will provide us with consulting,
research and development services, including the development of lamps to be
used in our current and future EFO systems for projects.  

  In addition to our agreement with ADLT, we further
augmented our internal research and development efforts by collaborating with
other component suppliers, independent consultants and third parties. We depend
substantially on these parties to undertake research and development efforts
necessary to achieve improvements that would not otherwise be possible given
the multiple and diverse technologies that must be integrated into our products
and our limited engineering, personnel and financial resources. These third
parties have no material contractual commitments to participate in these
efforts, and there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so.  

  Research and development
expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $2.2
million, $1.2 million and $1.3 million, respectively, net of credits for
research and development from the government.  

     Intellectual Property   

  We believe that the success of our business depends
primarily on our technical innovations, marketing abilities and responsiveness
to customer requirements, rather than on patents, trade secrets, trademarks,
copyrights and other intellectual property rights. Nevertheless, we have a
policy of seeking to protect our intellectual property through patents, license
agreements, trademark registrations, confidential disclosure agreements and
trade secrets. As of December 31, 2005, our intellectual property
portfolio consisted of 41 issued United States and foreign patents, various
pending United States  patent
applications and various pending Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, patent
applications filed with the World Intellectual Property Organization that serve
as the basis of national patent filings in countries of interest. Our issued
patents expire at various times between August 2008 and April 2023.
Generally, the term of patent protection is 20 years from the earliest
effective filing date of the patent application. There can be no assurance,
however, that our issued patents are valid or that any patents applied for will
be issued. There can be no assurance that our competitors or customers will not
copy aspects of our fiber optic lighting systems or obtain information that we
regard as proprietary. There also can be no assurance that others will not
independently develop products similar to ours. The laws of some foreign
countries in which we sell or may sell our products do not protect proprietary
rights to products to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.  

  We are aware that a large
number of patents and pending patent applications exist in the field of fiber
optic technology. We are also aware that certain of our competitors hold and
have applied for patents   

18     

related
to fiber optic lighting. Although, to date, we have not been involved in
litigation challenging our intellectual property rights, we have in the past
received communications from third parties asserting rights in our patents or
that our technology infringes intellectual property held by such third parties.
Based on information currently available to us, we do not believe that any such
claims involving our technology or patents are meritorious. However, we may be
required to engage in litigation to protect our patent rights or to defend
against the claims of others. There can be no assurance that third parties will
not assert claims that our products infringe third party patents or other
intellectual property rights or that, in case of a dispute, licenses to such
technology will be available, if at all, on reasonable terms. In addition, we
may need to take legal action to enforce our intellectual property rights in the
future. In the event of litigation to determine the validity of any third-party
claims or claims by us against third-parties, such litigation, whether or
not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and
divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive
tasks. Also, in the event of an adverse ruling in such litigation, we might be
required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology
or to obtain licenses to the infringing technology, which licenses may not be
available on acceptable terms. In the event of a successful claim against us
and our failure to develop or license a substitute technology, our operating
results could be adversely affected.  

     Employees   

  As of December 31, 2005, we had 92 full time
employees, of whom 32 were involved in sales, marketing and customer service,
24 in research and product development, 17 in assembly and quality assurance,
and 19 in finance and administration. From time to time, we employ part-time personnel
in various capacities, primarily assembly and clerical support. In addition, we
have 35 contract employees in Mexico. We have never experienced a work
stoppage. No employees are subject to any collective bargaining agreement, and
we believe our employee relations to be good.  

  We believe that our future
success will depend to a large extent on the continued contributions of certain
employees, many of whom would be difficult to replace, and on our ability to
attract and retain qualified technical, sales, marketing and management
personnel, for whom competition is intense. The loss of or failure to attract
and retain any such persons could delay product development cycles, disrupt our
operations or otherwise harm our business or results of operations.  

     Available Information   

  Our Web site is   http://www.fiberstars.com  . We make available free of charge,
on or through our Web site, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any
amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically
filing such reports with the SEC. Information contained on our Web site is not
part of this Report.  

     Item 1A. Risk Factors   

     We
have recently changed the focus of our business and may be unsuccessful or
experience difficulties in implementing this change. If this occurs, we may not
be able to achieve operating profitability.   

  In connection with the reorganization and
restructuring of Fiberstars, we intend to shift the primary focus of our
business from our pool and spa products to products using our EFO technology.
While we intend to continue designing and manufacturing pool and spa products,
we plan to allocate significant resources to the development, marketing and
distribution of our EFO system in the accent lighting market. We have a limited
operating history in this market, and our shift in focus may affect our ability
to accurately forecast sales, establish adequate reserves, estimate amounts of
warranty and returns and other similar expenses. Our ability to achieve and
maintain profitability depends on our ability to successfully implement our new
business strategy.  

19  

Our
operating results are subject to fluctuations caused by many factors that could
result in decreased revenue and a decline in the price of our common stock.   

  Our quarterly
operating results can vary significantly depending upon a number of factors
including:  

             the
lighting market s acceptance of, and demand for, our products; 

             the
level and seasonality of orders and the delivery of new products; 

             the
continued availability of our current manufacturing channels and raw material
suppliers; 

             the
continued availability of our distributors or the availability of replacement
distribution channels; 

             fluctuations
in our sales volumes and mix of low and high margin products; 

             product
development and marketing expenditures, which are made well in advance of potential
resulting revenue; 

             increased
expenses in research and development if we are not able to meet certain
milestones in our Defense Advanced Research Project Agency, or DARPA,
contracts; 

             the
seasonality of the construction industry, which results in a substantial
portion of our historical quarterly sales in the last month of each of the
second and fourth quarters of the year; 

             a
significant portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, and if sales fall
below our expectations, we will not be able to make any significant adjustment
in our operating expenses; and 

             the
impact of natural disasters, terrorist acts and other unforeseeable
catastrophic events. 

  Although we attempt to control our expense levels,
these levels are based, in part, on anticipated revenue. Therefore, we may not
be able to control spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected
revenue shortfall.  

   You
should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an
indication of future performance. The  results may be below the
expectations of market analysts or investors, which would likely cause our
share price to decline.  

     Our
future success is highly dependent on the successful adoption of EFO systems by
the lighting market, which is traditionally slow in adopting new technologies.   

  EFO is a relatively new and unproven type of lighting
that may not achieve acceptance by lighting designers or other consumers of
lighting products. Our potential retail customers are widespread and
independent, and their decisions are influenced by a variety of factors which
are often unique to each customer. These customers have multiple choices in
lighting designs and products, including incandescent and fluorescent
technologies, and may be averse to adopting new technology or incurring the
costs of utilizing new technologies. In addition, these alternative lighting
products are manufactured by large, established companies with significantly
greater resources than us for developing energy efficient lighting. As a
result, even if potential customers choose to adopt new lighting technologies,
our products still may not be utilized. Even if some customers utilize our
products on a limited basis, there is no guarantee that they will expand their
use of or continue to utilize our products.  

  One of our significant markets is large-scale new
construction, including retail and grocery stores. Effective lighting by these
customers is a critical element in showcasing merchandise and promoting sales.
As a result, these customers are reluctant to change current lighting products
for fear of losing sales. In order to penetrate these markets, we must persuade
this customer base that the adoption of our EFO systems will not negatively
impact their business. This process is slow, time-consuming and expensive. If   

20     

our EFO system is not
adopted by this customer base, we may not generate sufficient revenue to offset
the cost of bringing our EFO technology into these target markets.  

  Finally, successful
penetration in certain markets or geographic regions does not guarantee that we
will be able to achieve successful penetration into the accent lighting market
or that our acceptance will be geographically widespread.  

     Our
daylight color spectrum lamp is untested by the retail market and may not be
accepted without technological changes, if at all.   

  Our EFO system offers a
new full spectrum lamp that closely simulates daylight for use in retail stores.
 If our new daylight color spectrum lamp is
not as effective as we anticipate or does not meet  the specific needs of
this target customer base, we may need to expend additional resources to make
technological changes to the spectrum. If our new daylight color spectrum is
not accepted or if we are unable to make the changes necessary for customer
acceptance, this could negatively impact sales of our EFO system.  

   We plan on allocating a significant amount of
resources to the research and development of our EFO lighting technology. If
our EFO lighting system is not accepted in our target market, we may not recoup
these expenses.   

  We plan on devoting a
substantial portion of our research and development resources to developing new
products using our EFO lighting technology and marketing it in our target
markets. Because our EFO lighting system is a relatively new product, we do not
know if we will be successful in penetrating our target markets. As a result,
we may not generate a sufficient amount of revenue from the sales of our EFO
lighting systems to offset the costs necessary to bring our EFO lighting
systems to market. Our gross margins and operating results will suffer if our
EFO lighting systems are not accepted in our target markets.  

     Our
fiber manufacturing is centralized in a single facility, which may affect our
ability to sufficiently meet product demand in a cost effective or timely
manner.   

  We manufacture our large
core fiber through a unique proprietary process and currently have one machine
that manufactures this fiber, located at the facility we lease in Solon, Ohio.
This large core fiber is used in a majority of our EFO systems. As a result, we
are subject to manufacturing delays due to facility shutdown, power loss or
labor difficulties. If our facility were to experience temporary shutdown, or
be unable to function at predicted capacity, we may be unable to meet our
demand in a cost efficient manner, if at all. Furthermore, our ability to
modify our production output for custom orders is limited by our having one
machine at a single facility. In addition, our alternative method is not cost
effective. We recently entered into an agreement, with ADLT to purchase a
coating machine and the supply of certain coatings which will be operated and
maintained by a third party. If this machine is not operated or maintained
properly we may experience delays in our manufacturing process.  

     If
electricity costs decline or regulatory requirements for energy efficient
lighting are repealed, demand for our products may decline.   

  The principal advantage of
our EFO technology over competing lighting technologies is energy efficiency.
Factors compelling our target customers to utilize more energy efficient
lighting technologies include increasing energy costs and federal and  state government regulations requiring lower
wattage per square foot such as ASHRAE-IESNA Standard 90.1, which limits
electricity  consumption for lighting per square foot to 1.9 watts for
both new construction and renovations requiring building permits for retail
buildings in the United States. If the need for increasingly energy efficient
lighting technologies by our target customer base declines, the attractiveness
of our technology would also decline.  

21     

We depend on a limited number of suppliers from whom we
do not have guarantees of adequate supplies, thus increasing the  risk
that loss of or problems with a single supplier could result in impaired
margins, reduced production volumes, strained customer relations and loss of
business.   

  Mitsubishi is the sole
supplier of our small diameter stranded fiber, which is used extensively in our
fiber pool and spa lighting products, and to a lesser extent, in our EFO
systems. We also rely on a sole source for some of our EFO lamps. The loss of
one or both of these suppliers could result in delays in the shipment of
products, additional expense associated with redesigning  products, impaired margins, reduced production
volumes, strained customer relations and loss of business or could otherwise
harm our  results of operations.  

     We
depend on ADLT for a number of components used in our products as well as
future development of new components and also rely on ADLT to operate and
maintain our coating machine and provide certain related services.   

  ADLT supplies us with certain lamps, including our EFO
lamps, reflectors and coatings used in our products, including our EFO systems.
ADLT came out of bankruptcy proceedings in December 2003, and while it has
been financially viable since then, there can be no assurances that this will
continue. In addition, ADLT can terminate for convenience its obligations to
supply us with components and related services for the coating machine
purchased from them upon nine months notice to us. As a result, we have
identified alternative suppliers for these components, but there could be an
interruption of supply and increased costs if a transition to a new supplier
were required. We could lose current or prospective customers as a result of
supply interruptions. Increased costs and delays would negatively impact our
gross margins and results of operations.  

  We recently signed a
development agreement with ADLT pursuant to which it agreed to provide us with
certain consulting, research and development services, including the
development of lamps to be used in our current and potential EFO system
projects. Our ability to make timely research improvements or develop new
products may be negatively effected if ADLT fails to meet  specified milestones under our agreement. In
addition, ADLT s obligations are subject to mutually agreed upon cost
limitations, which    may impair the
level of service we receive. ADLT may also terminate these obligations for
convenience upon ninety days notice to us.   

     We
have experienced negative cash flow from operations and may continue to do so
in the future. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, but our
ability to do so may be limited.   

  While we have historically
been able to fund cash needs from operations, bank lines of credit or from
capital markets transactions, due to competitive, economic or other factors
there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so. If our
capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements and
overall business objectives we may seek to sell additional  equity securities or obtain debt financing.
Adverse business conditions due to a weak economic environment or a weak market
for our  products have led to and may lead to continued negative cash
flow from operations, which may require us to raise additional financing,
including equity financing. Any equity financing may be dilutive to
shareholders, and debt financing, if available, will increase expenses and may
involve restrictive covenants. We may be required to raise additional capital
at times and in amount which  are uncertain,
especially under the current capital market conditions. Under these
circumstances, if we are unable to acquire additional  capital or are
required to raise it on terms that are less satisfactory than desired, it may
harm our financial condition, which could require us to curtail our operations
significantly, sell significant assets, seek arrangements with strategic
partners or other parties that may require us to relinquish significant rights
to products, technologies or markets, or explore other strategic alternatives
including a merger or sale of our company.  

22     

We
may be unable to attract and retain qualified accounting personnel and we may
be unable to maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures in the
future.   

  In connection with our
relocation, we need to hire additional accounting personnel that can provide us
with the depth of accounting experience necessary to maintain adequate
disclosure controls and procedures. We may not be able to attract the necessary
personnel in a timely fashion or with the requisite experience. As a result, we
may not have the review and oversight capabilities necessary to maintain
legally required disclosure controls and procedures.  

   We sell products into a marketplace where our
competitors often have lower initial product pricing. If we are unable to  provide customers with long term cost savings, we
may not be able to successfully penetrate our target markets, which could  harm
our revenue and gross profits.   

  Customers in our target
markets currently use conventional lighting technologies, including
incandescent, halogen and fluorescent lighting. The initial cost of using these
traditional lighting technologies is relatively low. Historically, we have not
been able to price our EFO lighting system to compete with these traditional
lighting products. As a result, in order to gain market share, our EFO lighting
system must provide our target customers with longer life cycles. This is
achieved through reduced maintenance  costs,
reduced energy costs and providing customers with the desired lighting effect
without resulting in damage to or loss of goods. If    we are not able to persuade potential customers of
the long-term cost savings in using our EFO lighting system, we may not be able
to  successfully compete in our target markets. Our financial results
will suffer if we are not able to penetrate these target markets and  gain market share. Additionally, MR-16
halogen lamp pricing is declining, and in order to remain competitive and
broaden our market  targets to include compact fluorescent lamps and
other lamp types, we believe we must continue to reduce EFO costs and pricing.  

     We
operate in markets that are intensely and increasingly competitive. To be
successful, we must provide energy saving solutions that offer compelling
competitive advantages over conventional lighting technologies.   

  Competition is increasing in the commercial decorative
and accent lighting and pool lighting markets, as well as in the energy
efficient lighting markets. A number of  companies
offer directly competitive products, including color halogen lighting for
swimming pools and incandescent and fluorescent  lighting for commercial
decorative and accent lighting. We also compete with LED products in water
lighting and in neon and other lighted signs. In addition, many of our
competitors in the pool and spa market bundle their lighting products with
other pool and spa related products, which many customers find to be an
attractive alternative. Our competitors include large and well-established
companies such as General Electric, Sylvania, Philips, Schott, 3M, Bridgestone,
Pentair, Mitsubishi and OSRAM/Siemens.  

  Many of our competitors
have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we
do. We may not be able to adequately respond to technological developments or
fluctuations in competitive pricing. We anticipate that any future growth in
fiber optic lighting will be accompanied by continuing increases in
competition, which could adversely affect our operating results if we cannot
compete effectively. To stay competitive we must continue to allocate our
resources to research and development, which could negatively impact our gross
margins. If we are unable to provide more efficient lighting technology than
our competitors, our operating results will be adversely affected.  

     We
rely on intellectual property and other proprietary information that may not be
protected and that may be expensive to protect.   

  We currently hold 39
patents in the United States, and three corresponding patents in Japan and one
corresponding patent in Australia. We also have 14 patents pending in the
United States. There can be no assurance, however, that our issued patents are
valid or that any patents applied for will be issued. We have   

23     

a policy
of seeking to protect our key intellectual property through, among other
things, the prosecution of patents with respect to certain of our technologies.
There are many issued patents and pending patent applications in the field of
fiber optic technology, and some of our competitors hold and have applied for
patents related to fiber optic and non-fiber optic lighting. We have in the
past received communications from third parties asserting rights in our patents
or that our technology infringes intellectual property rights held by such
third parties. For example, we were recently involved in patent litigation with
Pentair with respect to our FX Pool Light product, which was subsequently
settled. Litigation to determine the validity of any third-party claims or
claims by us against such third party, whether or not determined in our favor,
could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and
management personnel, regardless of the outcome of such litigation. In
addition, we do not know whether our competitors will in the future apply for
and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to
make, use, sell or import our products. Although we may seek to resolve any
potential future claims or actions, we may not be able to do so on reasonable
terms, or at all. If, following a successful third-party action for
infringement, we cannot obtain a license or redesign our products, we may have
to stop manufacturing and marketing our products and our business would suffer
as a result.  

     Sales
of our EFO systems depend on acceptance by multiple decision makers, resulting
in lengthy sales cycles. As a result, the flow of EFO revenue is not
predictable.   

  One of our significant
markets is large-scale new construction and the length of our sales cycle in
this market can be anywhere from nine months to as long as three years.
Decisions about lighting products utilized in large-scale new construction are  made at multiple levels by our current and
potential customers, including merchandising and purchasing personnel, the
chief financial    officer and the chief
executive officer. These decisions are influenced by a number of factors
including cost, reliability of the product  and reliability of its
source. In addition, some of these customers function autonomously and
decisions with respect to construction, including lighting, are made by each
store, even if part of a large chain. As a result, with respect to such
customers, we often must meet with all the decision makers at each store where
we want to install our EFO systems. Furthermore, such decisions are made  significantly in advance of the utilization of the
actual product. As a result, if we are unable to access the multiple decision
makers or  convince them to adopt our products and utilize them on a
widespread basis, we may be unable to successfully penetrate these markets. We
may also be required to invest significant time and resources into marketing to
these customers before we are able to determine if we will be able to sell such
customers our products.  

     We
depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the
loss of the services of any of our key employees could materially affect our
business.   

  Our future success will
depend to a large extent on the continued contributions of certain employees,
such as our current chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief
technical officer. These and other key employees would be difficult to replace.
Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain
qualified technical, sales, marketing and management personnel, for whom
competition is intense. The loss of or failure to attract, hire and retain any
such persons could delay product development cycles, disrupt our operations or
otherwise harm our business or results of operations. In addition, we plan to
build a new internal sales force, which may not generate the anticipated net
sales and may incur unanticipated expenses.  

     We
are becoming increasingly dependent on foreign sources of supply for many of
our components and in some cases complete assemblies, which due to distance or
political events, may result in untimely deliveries.   

  In order to control costs,
we are continually seeking offshore supply of components and assemblies. We
currently import supplies from, or have products assembled in, Mexico, India,
China, Taiwan, Japan   

24     

and some
European countries. This results in longer lead times for deliveries, which can
mean less responsiveness to sudden changes in market demand for the products
involved. Some of the countries where components are sourced may be less stable
politically than the United States or may be subject to natural disasters or
diseases, and this could lead to an interruption in the delivery of key
components. Delays in the delivery of key  components
could result in delays in product shipments, additional expenses associated
with locating alternative component sources or    redesigning products, impaired margins, reduced production volumes,
strained customer relations and loss of customers, any of which  could
harm our results of operations. Furthermore, we bear the risk of theft or
damage to our products with certain of our offshore partners, particularly with
regard to our assembly facilities in Mexico.  

     If we
fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able
to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result,
current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial
reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common
stock.   

  Effective internal
controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and
effectively prevent fraud. We have in the past discovered, and may in the
future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. For
example, in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements
for 2004, our independent registered public accounting firm informed us that it
believed that inadequate segregation of duties in our financial reporting
process and our information technology governance controls, and a number of
adjustments to financial statements during the course of the audit process,
constituted significant deficiencies that aggregated to form a material
weakness in our internal controls. In addition, Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal
controls over financial reporting and have our independent registered public
accounting firm annually attest to our evaluation, as well as issue their own
opinion on our internal control over financial reporting, which we expect will
be required for the first time in connection with our Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. We are
preparing for compliance with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and
testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our report.
However, the continuous process of strengthening our internal controls and
complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires
significant management attention. We cannot be certain that these measures will
ensure that we will maintain adequate control over our financial processes and
reporting. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover
a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied,
could reduce the market s confidence in our financial statements and harm our
stock price. In addition, future non-compliance with Section 404 could
subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension
or delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ National Market and the inability
of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would
further reduce our stock price. Estimates of our costs, independent of
additional audit fees, required to comply with Section 404 are $600,000 or
higher. While we expect these costs to increase our operating expenses
significantly, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of future additional
costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.  

     Our
components are difficult to manufacture and procure in large quantities and
supply may be limited in the short term.   

   EFO system includes components
that are difficult to manufacture and procure in large quantities in the short
term. These  components include lamps and optical and electronic
components. Furthermore, if these components are in limited supply, our
suppliers may allocate their supply to larger customers. If an increase in
demand outpaces the projected expansion of our manufacturing capabilities, or
if larger quantities are needed in a shorter time frame than anticipated, we
may not be able to meet customers  requirements and our ability to market our
EFO system may be adversely affected. Our inability to meet customers 
requirements may also negatively affect our ability to gain market share and
acceptance among lighting designers and other repeat customers of lighting
products.  

25  

We
have historically relied on government funding for our research and
development.   

  Historically,
approximately 60% of our EFO research and development efforts have been
supported directly by government funding. In 2005, for example, approximately
59% of our EFO research and development funding came from DARPA and all our
current funding from DARPA is set to expire in February 2006 without any
guarantee of renewal or replenishment. If government funding were to be reduced
or eliminated, there is no guarantee we would be able to continue to fund our
research and development efforts in EFO technology and products at their
current levels, if at all. If we are unable to support our EFO research and
development efforts, there is no guarantee we would be able to develop
enhancements to our current products or develop new products.  

     Changes
to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and
cause us to change our business practices.   

  We prepare our financial
statements to conform with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP,
in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation
by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and
Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create
appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a
significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of
transactions completed before a  change is
announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices
may adversely affect our reported financial results  or the way we
conduct our business. For example, accounting policies affecting many aspects
of our business, including rules relating  to employee stock option grants, have recently been revised or are under
review. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and other  agencies have
finalized changes to GAAP that will require us, starting in our first quarter
of 2006, to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and
other equity incentives. We may have significant and ongoing accounting charges
resulting from option grant and other equity incentive expensing that could
reduce our overall net income. In addition, because we historically have  used equity-related compensation as a component of
our total employee compensation program, the accounting change could make the 
use of equity-related compensation less attractive to us and therefore make it
more difficult to attract and retain employees.  

     We
currently rely on lighting representatives for a significant portion of our
decorative and special effects lighting systems sales and terms and conditions
of sales are subject to change with very little notice.   

  Most of our decorative and
special effects lighting systems are sold through lighting representatives, and
we do not have long-term contracts with our distributors. If these distributors
significantly change their terms with us or change their historical pattern of
ordering products from us, there could be a significant adverse impact on our
net sales and operating results.  

     Recent
changes to our senior management could negatively effect our operations and
relationships with customers, suppliers and employees.   

  In connection with the
restructuring and reorganization, we also made changes to our senior
management, including the appointment of a new chief executive officer and
chief technology officer. These changes could negatively affect our operations
and our relationships with our suppliers, customers, employees, distributors and
strategic partners. In addition, our senior management has limited experience
as officers of a publicly traded company. If the integration of new members to
our senior management team does not go as smoothly as anticipated, it could
negatively affect our ability to execute our business plan.  

26     

Our
sales are dependent upon new construction levels and are subject to seasonal
and general economic trends.   

   Construction
levels are affected by general economic conditions, real estate market,
interest rates and the weather. Sales of  commercial lighting products
depend significantly upon the level of new building construction and
renovation. Sales of our pool and spa lighting products, which currently are
available only with newly constructed pools and spas, depend substantially upon
the level of new construction of pools. Because of the seasonality of
construction, our sales of swimming pool and commercial  lighting products, and thus our overall revenues and income, have tended
to be significantly lower in the first and the third quarters of  each
year. Various economic and other trends may alter these seasonal trends from
year to year, and we cannot predict the extent to which these seasonal trends
will continue.  

     If we
are not able to timely and successfully develop, manufacture, market and sell
our new products, our operating results will decline.   

  We expect to introduce new
products each year in the pool and spa lighting market and the commercial
lighting market. We depend on various components and raw materials for use in
the manufacturing of our products from sole and foreign suppliers. We may not
be able to successfully manage price fluctuations due to market demand or
shortages. Significant increases in the costs, or  sustained interruptions in our receipt of adequate amounts, of necessary
components and raw materials could harm our margins, result  in
manufacturing halts, harm our reputation and relationship with our customers
and negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we could have
difficulties manufacturing these new products as a result of our inexperience
with them or the costs could be  higher than
expected and delivery of these products may cause us to incur additional
unexpected research and development expenses.  Furthermore, in order to
competitively price our products and achieve broader market acceptance, we may
need to redesign our  manufacturing process
to produce our products in higher volume and at a reduced cost. Furthermore,
any delays in the introduction of  these new products could result in
lost sales, loss of customer confidence and loss of market share. Also, it is
difficult to predict whether the market will accept these new products. If any
of these new products fails to meet expectations, our operating results will be
adversely affected.  

     We
rely on the largest pool distributor in the United States for a significant
portion of our pool and spa lighting products sales.   

  We sell a significant
portion of our pool and spa lighting products through SCP. SCP accounted for
approximately 11%, 10% and 11% of our net sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005,
respectively. If SCP ceases to purchase or substantially decreases its volume
of purchases, this could significantly reduce the availability of our products
to end users, which could negatively impact our net sales and operating
results. Furthermore, because SCP is the largest distributor in the United
States, we may not be able to increase sales to our other distributors
sufficiently to offset the loss resulting from SCP s reduction or cessation in
sales.  

     The
loss of a key sales representative could have a negative impact on our net
sales and operating results.   

  We rely on key sales
representatives and outside sales agents for a significant portion of our
sales. These sales representatives and outside sales agents have unique
relationships with our customers and would be difficult to replace. The loss of
a key sales representative or outside sales agent could interfere with our
ability to maintain customer relationships and result in declines in our net sales
and operating results. In addition, these sales representatives and sales
agents carry multiple products lines, including those of our competitors.
Generally, a sales representative or sales agent will primarily sell products
from one well-established company and supplement these sales with products from
smaller companies, such as   

27     

Fiberstars.
As a result, if we lost a key sales representative or sales agent, we may have
difficulty replacing the sales representative or sales agent, if at all, which
could negatively impact our net sales.  

     We
use plants in Mexico and India to manufacture and assemble many of our pool and
spa products. The supply of these  finished
goods may be impacted by local political or social conditions as well as the
financial strength of the companies with  which we do business.   

  As we attempt to reduce
manufacturing expenses, we are becoming increasingly dependent upon offshore
companies for the manufacturing and final assembly of many of our pool and spa
products. To do so, we must advance certain raw materials, inventory and
production costs to these off-shore manufacturers. The supply of finished goods
from these companies, and the raw materials, inventory and funds that we
advance to them may be at risk depending upon the varying degrees of stability
of the local political, economic and social environments in which they operate,
and the financial strength of the manufacturing companies themselves.  

     Because
we depend on a limited number of significant customers for our net sales, the
loss of a significant customer, reduction in order size or the effects of
volume discounts granted to significant customers from time to time could harm
our operating results.   

  Our business is currently
dependent on a limited number of significant customers, and we anticipate that
we will continue to rely on a limited number of customers. For example, in
2005, SCP, our largest pool and spa customer, accounted for approximately  11% of our net sales. We expect these customers to
continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. The
loss of    any of these significant
customers would harm our net sales and operating results. Customer purchase
deferrals, cancellations, reduced  order volumes or non-renewals from any
particular customer could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate or
decline and harm our business. In addition, volume discounts granted to
significant customers from time to time could lead to reduced profit margins,
and negatively impact our operating results.  

      Our components and products could have defects or design
or compatibility issues, any of which could be costly to correct and  could
result in the rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, as well
as lost sales, diverted development resources and increased warranty reserves
and manufacturing costs.   

  In the past, we have
experienced design defects and product failure. For example, in our EFO
systems, we experienced defects related to the power supply and the
illuminator. In our pool and spa products, we experienced defects with our
circuit  sequencing color wheel. We cannot
guarantee that we will not experience defects or compatibility issues in
components or products in  the future. Errors or defects in our products
may arise in the future, and, if significant or perceived to be significant,
could result in rejection of our products, product returns or recalls, damage
to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased
customer service and support costs and warranty claims. Errors or defects in
our products could also result in product liability claims. We estimate
warranty and other returns and accrue reserves for such costs at the time of
sale. Any estimates, reserves or accruals may be insufficient to cover sharp
increases in product returns, and such returns may harm our operating results.
In  addition, customers may require design
changes in our products in order to suit their needs. Losses, delays or damage
to our reputation  due to design or defect issues would likely harm our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  

     If we
are unable to predict market demand for our products and focus our inventories
and development efforts to meet market demand, we could lose sales
opportunities and experience a decline in sales.   

  In order to arrange for
the manufacture of sufficient quantities of products and avoid excess inventory
we need to accurately predict market demand for each of our products.
Significant unanticipated   

28     

fluctuations
in demand could cause problems in our operations. We may not be able to
accurately predict market demand in order to properly allocate our
manufacturing and distribution resources among our products, especially with
respect to the manufacturing of our large core fiber, as we use one machine to
manufacture this fiber. As a result, we may experience declines in sales and
lose, or fail to gain, market share. Conversely, if we overbuild inventories we
run the risk of having inventory write-offs due to obsolescence.  

     We
depend on collaboration with third parties, who are not subject to material
contractual commitments, to augment our research and development efforts.   

   Our
research and development efforts include collaboration with third parties. Many
of these third parties are not bound by  any material contractual
commitment leaving them free to end their collaborative efforts at will. Loss
of these collaborative efforts could adversely affect our research and
development efforts and could have a negative effect on our competitive
position in the market. In addition, arrangements for joint development efforts
may require us to make royalty payments on sales of resultant  products or enter into licensing agreements for
the technology developed, which could increase our costs and negatively impact
our  results of operations.  

     The
demand for new construction is affected by general economic conditions.   

  The United States and
international economies are cyclical and therefore difficult to predict. A
sustained economic recovery is uncertain. In particular, recent increases in
the cost of oil, increases in energy costs, terrorist acts and similar events,
continued  turmoil in the Middle East or war
in general could contribute to a slowdown of the market demand for products
that require significant  initial capital expenditures, including new
residential and commercial buildings. In addition, increases in interest rates
may increase financing costs to customers, which in turn may decrease building
rates and associated demand for our products. If the economic recovery slows down
as a result of the recent economic, political and social turmoil, or if there
are further terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, we may
experience decreases in the demand for our products, which may harm our
operating results.  

     The
impact of recent hurricanes may continue to have a significant negative effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   

  In late August 2005,
Hurricane Katrina struck the coast of a number of states on the Gulf of Mexico,
including Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. It is not possible at this time
to determine either the effects Hurricane Katrina will have on the general
economy and our business. We have, however, experienced delays in orders for
our EFO system in Houston and Florida. We are unable to predict whether these
delays will continue or what additional effects the recent hurricanes will have
on our business. Damages and higher prices caused by hurricanes such as
Hurricane Katrina could have an adverse effect on the financial condition of  our current and potential customers located in the
Gulf Coast region and elsewhere in the United States, which could result in
lower or  delayed sales. It is also possible that we could experience
greater costs related to disruptions to the supply chain which would negatively
impact our results of operations.  

     We
are subject to global economic or political conditions, which may disrupt the
general economy, reducing demand for our products.   

  We have significant international activities and
customers, and plan to continue these efforts, which subject us to additional
business risks, including logistical complexity, political instability and the
general economic conditions in those markets. Sales outside the United States
accounted for approximately 30% of our net sales in 2003, 33% of our net sales
in 2004 and 33% of our net sales in 2005. Because the market   

29     

for our products tends to
be highly dependent upon general economic conditions, a decline in general
economic conditions would likely harm our operating results.  

  Risks we face in
conducting business internationally include:  

             multiple,
conflicting and changing laws and regulations, export and import restrictions,
employment laws, regulatory requirements and other government approvals,
permits and licenses; 

             difficulties
and costs in staffing and managing foreign operations such as our offices in
Germany and the United Kingdom; 

             difficulties
and costs in recruiting and retaining individuals skilled in international
business operations; 

             increased
costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; 

             potentially
adverse tax consequences;   political and economic instability, including wars,
acts of terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailments of trade and other
business restrictions; and 

             currency
fluctuations. 

  In addition, in the
Asia/Pacific region generally, we face risks associated with a recurrence of
SARS, spreading of Asian bird flu, tensions between  countries in that region, such as political tensions between China and
Taiwan, the ongoing discussions with North Korea regarding its  nuclear
weapons program, potentially reduced protection for intellectual property
rights, government-fixed foreign exchange rates,  relatively uncertain legal products and developing telecommunications infrastructures.
In addition, some countries in this region, such  as China, have adopted
laws, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the
ability of foreign companies to conduct business in that country or otherwise
place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies.  

     Item 2. Property   

  Our principal executive
offices and commercial lighting manufacturing and assembly facilities are
located in a 59,000 square foot facility in Solon, Ohio, under a lease agreement
expiring in 2008. We have other local sales offices in the United States in
Pleasanton, California and New York and in Europe sales and operations offices
in the United Kingdom in Thatcham, under lease. We also own a local office in
Berching, Germany. We also have a contract manufacturing facility near Tijuana,
Mexico. We believe that our current facilities are adequate to support our
current and anticipated near-term operations and that we can obtain additional
space we may need in the future at commercially reasonable terms.  

     Item 3. Legal Proceedings   

  On December 20, 2005, we entered into a
settlement agreement with Sherwin-Williams Company (or Sherwin-Williams) and
The Wagner Electric Sign Company (or Wagner). We were a third-party defendant
in a lawsuit filed in the Court of Common Pleas, Cuyahoga County, Ohio filed on
September 21, 2004, for alleged breach of warranty and breach of contract
in connection with an allegedly defective sign manufactured and sold by Wagner.
The settlement agreement calls for certain payments to be made to
Sherwin-Williams by the defendant parties and for certain repairs to be made.  

  On September 8, 2005, we entered into a
settlement agreement with Pentair Water Pool and Spa, Inc. In a lawsuit
filed against us on April 5, 2005 in the United States District Court,
Northern District of California, Pentair alleged that the manufacture, use and
sale of our FX Pool Light infringed three United States patents that Pentair
claims to own relevant to certain synchronized light technology. On September 12,
2005, we filed a dismissal, with prejudice, of our counterclaims and, in
accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement, Pentair filed a
dismissal, with prejudice, of its complaint.  

30     

We may also from time to time become involved in legal
proceedings in the ordinary course of business.  

  There were no matters
submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended December 31,
2005.  

     Executive
Officers of the Registrant   

  Our
executive officers and their ages as of December 31, 2005, are as follows:  

Name 

Age   

Position   

John Davenport  

60  

Chief Executive Officer
  and Director  

Roger Buelow  

33  

Vice President,
  Engineering and Chief Technology Officer  

Robert A. Connors  

57  

Vice President, Finance
  and Chief Financial Officer  

Ted des Enfants.  

34  

Vice President and
  General Manager, Fiberstars EFO  

Barry R. Greenwald  

59  

President and General Manager, Pool Division  

Mr. Davenport
    was appointed our
Chief Executive Officer and a director in July 2005. Mr. Davenport
joined us in November 1999 as Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and
was appointed Chief Operating Officer in July 2003. Prior to joining
Fiberstars, Mr. Davenport served as President of Unison Fiber Optic
Lighting Systems, LLC, or Unison, from 1998 to 1999. Mr. Davenport began
his career at GE Lighting in 1972 as a research physicist and thereafter served
25 years in various capacities including GE Lighting s research and development
manager and as development manager for high performance LED projects. He is a
recognized expert in light sources, lighting systems and lighting applications,
with special emphasis in low wattage discharge lamps, electronic ballast
technology and distributed lighting systems using fiber optics.  

    Mr. Buelow         was appointed our Chief Technology Officer in July 2005. Mr. Buelow
has also served as our Vice President, Engineering since February 2003.
Prior to joining Fiberstars in 1999, he served as Director of Engineering for
Unison from 1998 to 1999. Prior to that he served four years as an engineer at
GE Lighting working on several fiber optic lighting projects. Mr. Buelow
is a Certified Quality Engineer with ten patents.  

    Mr. Connors
   joined the Company in July 1998 as Vice
President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer. From 1984 to 1998, Mr. Connors
held a variety of positions for Micro Focus Group Plc, a software company
with 1997 revenues of $165 million, including Chief Financial Officer and
Chief Operating Officer. Prior to working for Micro Focus Group Plc, he
held senior finance positions with Eagle Computer and W. R. Grace. 

    Mr. des
Enfants    joined the Company in January 2005 as
Vice President and General Manager, Fiberstars EFO. From 1994 to 2003, Mr. des
Enfants held a variety of positions with the GE Lighting, most recently as
District Sales Manager in the eastern region. From 1998 to 2001, he was
National Account Manager with GE Lighting and from 1994 to 1998 held various
Sales and Sales Manager positions at GE Lighting. 

    Mr. Greenwald   
joined the Company in October 1989 as General Manager, Pool Division. He
became Vice President in September 1993, Senior Vice President in February 1997
and President of the Pool Division in July 2005.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Greenwald
served as National Sales Manager at Aquamatic, a swimming pool accessory
company, from August 1987 to October 1989. From May 1982 to August 1987,
Mr. Greenwald served as National Sales Manager at Jandy Inc., a
swimming pool equipment company. 

31  

PART II   

     Item
5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

  Our
common stock trades on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol FBST. The
following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock,
from its consolidated transaction reporting system.  

There were approximately 300 holders of record of our
common stock as of March 22, 2006, and we estimate that at that date there
were approximately 800 additional beneficial owners.  

  We have not declared or
paid any cash dividends and does not anticipate paying cash dividends in the
foreseeable future.  

     Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans   

  Information regarding the
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under our Equity Compensation Plans can be
found under Item 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

     Item 6. Selected Financial Data   

  The Selected Operations
and Balance Sheet Data set forth below have been derived from our Consolidated
Financial Statements. It should be read in conjunction with the information
appearing under the heading  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  included in Item 7 of this Report and
the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes found in Item 15
of this Report.  

32     

SELECTED
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA 
(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)   

33  

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

   The following discussion of our financial condition
and results of operations should be read together with the consolidated
financial statements and the related notes incorporated by reference in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K or referred to herein. This discussion
contains, in addition to historical information, forward- looking statements
that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially
from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that
could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to,
those discussed below as well as those discussed under  Risk Factors,   Special
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  and elsewhere in this Report. We
disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking
statement.   

     Overview   

  Fiberstars designs,
develops, manufactures and markets fiber optic lighting systems for
wide-ranging uses in both the general commercial and the pool and spa lighting
markets. Our EFO system introduced in 2004, offers greater energy savings, heat
dissipation and maintenance cost benefits over conventional lighting for
multiple applications. Accordingly, we believe our EFO system will become a
leading technology in accent lighting and numerous niche lighting markets.  

   Net Sales   

  In 2005, 2004 and 2003, products generated net sales
of $28.3 million, $29.7 million, and $27.2 million. Of these net sales, in
2005, 2004 and 2003, sales of our EFO systems generated net sales of
$1,527,000, $582,000 and $172,000, respectively, and sales of our traditional
commercial lighting systems generated net sales of $12.0 million, $12.2 million
and $12.1 million, respectively. In addition, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, we
generated net sales of $14.8 million, $16.9 million and $14.9 million from
sales of our pool and spa lighting products.  

  We sell our general commercial lighting systems
through direct sales personnel and independent lighting representatives.
Specifically, we target large accounts and regional lighting representatives
who in turn target specific lighting projects in local markets. We also intend
to work with architects, lighting designers, contractors, utilities and other
entities that recommend or install lighting systems to build awareness for our
EFO systems. For example, we have an agreement with Gensler, an architecture,
design and planning firm, under which Gensler assists us in designing our EFO systems
in the markets in which they do business. We sell our traditional commercial
lighting products through our national account sales personnel as well as
independent lighting representatives. We also sell both our EFO and traditional
commercial lighting products in Europe, Russia and the Middle East through our
two subsidiaries who manage our sales operations in those regions. For our pool
and spa lighting products, we utilize regional sales representatives that
specialize in selling swimming pool systems to pool builders and pool product
distributors.  

  Our target markets and end customers for our
commercial lighting products include national supermarket chains, specialty
retail stores, restaurants and hotels and other commercial entities seeking
down lighting and accent lighting solutions. The target customers for our pool
and spa lighting markets are pool builders and pool product distributors who in
turn sell our products into the residential market.  

  We sell the majority of
our commercial lighting systems and pool lighting products in the United
States, Canada and Australia. Sales in the United States accounted for
approximately 67% of our net sales in 2005, 67% in 2004 and 70% in 2003.  

   Cost of Sales   

  Cost of sales consists
primarily of costs associated with the manufacture of our products, including
personnel and occupancy costs associated with manufacturing support and quality
assurance.  

34     

Research and
Development   

  Research and development
expense consists primarily of salaries, bonuses and benefits for engineering
personnel, depreciation of equipment, costs of third party subcontractors and
consultants and costs associated with various projects, including testing,
developing prototypes and URL related expenses. Funds received under government
contracts are recorded as a credit to research and development expense.  

   Sales and Marketing   

  Sales and marketing
expense consists primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits and related costs for
sales and marketing personnel, sales commissions, and costs associated with trade
shows, literature and participation at industry conferences.  

   General and
Administrative   

  General and administrative
expense consists primarily of salaries, bonuses, insurance, bank charges,
benefits and related costs for finance and administrative personnel and for
outside service expenses, including legal, accounting and investor relations.  

   Restructuring   

  In June 2005 we
announced a restructuring which called for moving our headquarters and base of
operations from Fremont, California to Solon, Ohio. We indicated at that time
that the cost of the restructure would be approximately $3,500,000 and would
result in approximately $2 million in savings. In 2005 we spent $3,120,000 on
restructuring expenses.  

   Seasonality   

  Sales of our products
follow a seasonal pattern which typically results in higher sales in the second
and fourth quarters as pool distributors stock shelves for the spring and
summer seasons. First quarter sales for our products tend be lower in any given
year. Consistent with industry practice, we provide extended terms to
distributors for shipments in the fourth quarter of a given year whereby they
receive products in November and December for which they pay in equal
installments from April through June of the following year.  

     Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates   

  The preparation of
financial statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
contingencies and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses in the financial
statements. Material differences may result in the amount and timing of revenue
and expenses if different judgments or different estimates were utilized.
Critical accounting policies, judgments and estimates which we believe have the
most significant impact on our financial statements are set forth below:  

             Revenue
recognition; 

             Allowances
for doubtful accounts, returns and discounts; 

             Valuation
of inventories; and 

             Accounting for income
taxes. 

35     

Revenue Recognition   

  We recognize revenue when: (1) we have received a
purchase order from the customer or completed of a sales agreement with the
customer; (2) shipment of the product has occurred or services have been
provided; and (3) the sales price is fixed or determinable and
collectibility is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is generally
recognized upon shipment, and allowances are provided for estimated returns,
discounts and warranties. Such allowances are adjusted periodically to reflect
actual and anticipated returns, discounts and warranty expenses. Revenue on
sales that include services such as design, integration and installation is
generally recognized using the percentage-of-completion method. Under the
percentage-of-completion method, revenue recognized reflects the portion of the
anticipated contract revenue that has been earned, equal to the ratio of labor
costs expended to date to anticipated final labor costs, based on current
estimates of labor costs to complete the project. Our products are generally
subject to warranties, and we provide for the estimated future costs of repair,
replacement or customer accommodation in costs of sales. Fees for research and
development services are determined on a cost-plus basis and are recognized as
revenue when ownership of the completed work-product passes to the customer.  

  We recognize shipments to pool lighting distributors
as revenue upon shipment. Estimated sales returns are recorded upon recognition
of revenues from distributors having rights of return, including exchange
rights for unsold products. Historically, returns have been minimal. Shipments
made to commercial lighting representatives and distributors are also
recognized as revenue upon shipment because in these instances the
representative or distributor is acting as a pass-through agent to a specific
lighting project for which we have an existing contract or purchase order.  

  Revenue recognition in
each period is dependent on our application of these accounting policies. Our
application of percentage-of-completion accounting is subject to our estimates
of labor costs to complete each project. In the event that actual results
differ from these estimates or we adjust these estimates in future periods, our
operating results for a particular period could be materially affected.  

   Allowances for
Doubtful Accounts, Returns and Discounts   

  We establish allowances
for doubtful accounts, returns and discounts for specifically identified
doubtful accounts, returns and discounts based on credit profiles of our
customers, current economic trends, contractual terms and conditions and
historical payment, return and discount experience. For each year ended December 31,
the allowance for doubtful accounts, returns and discounts was $1.4 million for
2005, $1.2 million for 2004 and $1.1 million for 2003. The amount charged to
allowances for doubtful accounts and discounts was $1,168,000 in 2005, $873,000
in 2004 and $792,000 in 2003. The amount charged to expenses for doubtful
accounts was $76,000 in 2005, $47,000 in 2004 and $2,000 in 2003. In the event
that actual returns, discounts and bad debts differ from these estimates or we
adjust these estimates in future periods, our operating results and financial
position could be materially affected.  

   Valuation of
Inventories   

  We state inventories at
the lower of standard cost (which approximates actual cost determined using the
first-in-first-out method) or market. We establish provisions for excess and
obsolete inventories after evaluation of historical sales, current economic
trends, forecasted sales, product lifecycles and current inventory levels.
During 2005, 2004 and 2003 we charged $196,000, $116,000 and $128,000 to cost
of sales for excess and obsolete inventories. Adjustments to our estimates,
such as forecasted sales and expected product lifecycles, could harm our
operating results and financial position.  

36     

Accounting for
Income Taxes   

  As part of the process of preparing our consolidated
financial statements, we are required to estimate our income tax liability in
each of the jurisdictions in which we do business. This process involves
estimating our actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary
differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deferred
revenues, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred
tax assets and assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated
balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that these deferred tax
assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we
believe that recovery is not more likely than not or is unknown, we must
establish a valuation allowance.  

  Significant management
judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our
deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against
our deferred tax assets. At December 31, 2005, we have recorded a full
valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, due to uncertainties
related to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, primarily consisting
of certain net operating losses carried forward. The valuation allowance is
based on our estimates of taxable income by jurisdiction and the period over
which our deferred tax assets will be recoverable.  

     Results of Operations   

   Net Sales   

  Our net sales decreased 5% to $28,337,000 in 2005
compared to $29,731,000 in 2004 and $27,238,000 in 2003. The 2005 decrease was
a result of lower sales of pool products of 13% or $2,134,000 which was
partially offset by increased sales of commercial lighting products of 5% or
$698,000. This decrease in pool lighting sales was primarily due to a
$2,414,000 decrease in sales from our spa lighting products. The increase in
commercial lighting sales was due to $945,000 in increased sales of EFO
products partially offset by a decline in traditional fiber optic sales from
our core legacy commercial lighting products of $247,000. We expect net sales
to increase in 2006 due to an anticipated increase in demand for EFO  TM  systems in commercial lighting markets and
partially offset by an expected continued decline in demand of our traditional
fiber optic products and pool products. The market for our products is highly
dependent upon general economic conditions. 

  Net sales increased 9% to $29,731,000 in 2004 compared
to $27,238,000 in 2003. The 2004 increase largely reflects an increase in sales
of pool products of 13% or $1,997,000 combined with a smaller increase in sales
of commercial lighting products of 4% or $496,000. This increase in pool
lighting sales was primarily due to $1,574,000 in increased sales from our
in-ground fiber pool lighting products and $1,094,000 in increased sales from
our Jazz electric light products, and was partially off-set by a decline in
sales of $662,000 from our spa light products. The increase in commercial
lighting sales was due to $410,000 in increased sales of EFO products combined
with relatively flat sales from our core legacy commercial lighting products.  

  International sales
accounted for approximately 33% of net sales in 2005 as compared to 33% of net
sales in 2004 and 30% in 2003. The relative increase in international sales
from 2003 to 2004 was due to growth in European sales compared to a decline in
domestic sales. The increase in 2004 international sales was a result of higher
sales from our German operation.  

   Gross Profit   

  We had gross profit of $10,626,000 in 2005, a decrease
of 8% compared to $11,511,000 in 2004. Gross profit as a percent of sales
decreased to 38% in 2005 compared to 39% in 2004. This decrease was primarily
due to lower gross profit margins from commercial lighting sales (5 percentage
points) combined with a smaller decrease in pool lighting margins (2 percentage
points). Commercial lighting gross profit   

37     

margins declined due to
increased sales from EFO products which are selling at a lower margin than
traditional fiber optic products. We expect gross profit margins to improve due
to the restructuring, however this may be offset by lower gross profit margins
on EFO sales, which may cause overall gross profit margins to remain flat, or
decline slightly in 2006. Gross profit margins are also dependent upon general
economic conditions.  

  Gross profit of
$11,511,000 in 2004 increased by 11% compared to $10,341,000 in 2003. Gross
profit as a percent of sales increased to 39% in 2004 compared to 38% in 2003. This
increase was primarily due to improved gross profit margins from pool and spa
lighting sales (3 percentage points) partially offset by lower gross profit
margins from commercial lighting sales. Pool and spa lighting gross profit
margins improved as a result of lower direct costs obtained by manufacturing
some products off-shore. Commercial lighting gross profit margins declined due
to increased competition for the core legacy products in Europe and in the
United States.  

   Operating Expenses   

  Research
and development expenses were $2,190,000 in 2005, an 84% increase from research
and development expenses of $1,188,000 in 2004. Although we increased spending
in research and development expense on personnel and project costs related to
government contract work and on improvements for existing products, this
spending was offset by the increase in expense credits for funds received in
2005 under certain Department of Energy, or DOE, contracts and under Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA, research and development contracts
awarded in February and April of 2004. The gross research and
development spending along with credits from government contracts is shown in
the following table:  

Funds received from DOE and DARPA for milestones
achieved during the fiscal year are recorded as a credit to research and
development expense. Net of payments to subcontractors, this amounted to
$2,295,000 in 2005 compared to $2,482,000 in 2004. This decrease in DOE and
DARPA credits was a result of lower DARPA credits in the year as a result of
being in the final year of the 3 year contract. These lower credits were
partially offset by an increase in credits from DOE. Gross expenses for
research and development increased by $815,000, which was made up of increased
personnel, consultants and project costs for government projects and for
prototyping new products. Research and development expenses were 8.0% of sales
in 2005 compared to 4% of sales in 2004. We expect research and development
expenses to increase in 2006 due to a decrease in anticipated DARPA credits.  

  Research and development expenses were $1,188,000 in
2004, a 7% decrease from research and development expenses of $1,279,000 in
2003. Although we increased spending in research and development expense on
personnel and project costs related to government contract work and on
improvements for existing products, this spending was offset by the increase in
expense credits for funds received in 2004 under certain DOE contracts and
under DARPA research and development contracts awarded in February and April of
2003. Funds received from DOE and DARPA for milestones achieved during the
fiscal year are recorded as a credit to research and development expense. Net
of payments to subcontractors, this amounted to $2,482,000 in 2004 compared to
$1,463,000 in 2003. This increase in DOE and DARPA credits was partially offset
by an increase in research and development spending of $345,000,   

38     

which was made up of
increased personnel and project costs for government projects, along with a
decrease in other government research and development credits of $583,000.
Research and development expenses were 4.0% of sales in 2004 compared to 4.7%
of sales in 2003.  

  Sales and marketing expenses were $9,595,000 in 2005,
a 12% increase compared to the $8,595,000 in sales and marketing expenses for
2004. This increase was due in part to an increase of $730,000 in 2005 largely
from higher pool and spa sales and marketing as a result of settling the
Pentair lawsuit and additional selling costs with SCP. The balance of the
increase is due to higher spending on EFO sales and marketing in the United
States and Europe. Sales and marketing expenses were 34% of sales in 2005 and
29% of sales in 2004. The Company expects sales and marketing expenses to
increase in absolute dollars in 2006 compared to 2005.  

  Sales and marketing expenses were $8,595,000 in 2004,
a 20% increase compared to the $7,188,000 in sales and marketing expenses for
2003. This increase was due in part to increased commission expenses of
$516,000 in 2004 compared to $239,000 in 2003. This largely reflects a change
from our selling pool and spa products through salaried inside sales people in
2003 to our using outside commissioned sales agents in 2004. The balance of the
2004 increase in sales and marketing expenses was primarily due to an increase
in personnel, promotional literature and advertising costs and stock option
expenses associated with marketing our EFO products. Sales and marketing
expenses were 29% of sales in 2004 and 26% of sales in 2003.  

  General and administrative expenses were $3,135,000 in
2005, a $676,000 increase as compared to $2,459,000 in 2004. General and
administrative expenses were 11% of sales in 2005 and 8% of sales in 2004 and
9% of sales in 2003.  The increase was
primarily due to higher accounting, investor conferences and legal fees. We
currently do not qualify for accelerated filing status with the SEC as a result
of our market capitalization as of June 30, 2005. We will be required to
comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 beginning fiscal
year ending December 31, 2006 if our non-affiliate market capitalization
is over $75 million on June 30, 2006. Costs required for a company of our
size to comply with Section 404 are estimated to be at least $600,000,
independent of additional audit fees. Some of these additional expenses were
incurred in 2005. We expect general and administrative  expense to
increase in absolute dollars in 2006 as compared to 2005 due to anticipated
higher accounting fees and expense associated with the impact of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and anticipated
increased legal fees.   

  General and administrative expenses were $2,459,000 in
2004, a $24,000 increase as compared to $2,435,000 in 2003. General and
administrative expenses were 8% of sales in 2004 and 9% of sales in 2003.  

  In June 2005, we
announced our plans to close our Fremont office and consolidate most of our
operations in Solon, Ohio, where we already had a local sales office and a
manufacturing facility. The relocation resulted in a restructuring charge of
approximately $3.5 million for severance payments, redundancy, lease and
inventory write-offs. We recognized a $3,120,000 restructuring charge in the
year ended December 31, 2005. We expect the total restructuring charge to
be near expected levels, with the balance of the expense being incurred in
2006.  

   Other Income and
Expenses   

  We had interest income of $138,000 and interest
expense of $39,000 in 2005. Interest income consists of interest earned on
deposits and marketable securities in 2005, most of which was earned after
receiving funds from the follow-on stock offering closed in November 2005.
Interest expense is for bank interest on a building loan in Germany for our
corporate offices there. Our interest expense, which consists of expense for
bank interest, was $17,000 in 2004 as compared to $119,000 in 2003. The
decrease in 2004 compared to 2003 was a result of reduced bank borrowings in
the United States in 2004.  

39     

We have certain long-term
leases. Payments due under these leases are disclosed below in Item 7 and in
the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in
this Report.  

   Income Taxes   

  We have a full valuation
allowance against our deferred tax assets in the United States. There was no
operating statement tax expense or benefit for our United States operations in
2005 as any expected benefit was offset by an increase in our valuation
allowance. The $109,000 tax expense shown for 2005 is a result of tax expense
for our United Kingdom and German operations which experienced a profit in
2005.  

   Net Income (Loss)   

  Due to the increase in
expenses in 2005 combined with a decrease in gross profit as a result of the
lower pool lighting sales, the amount of loss before income taxes was
$7,314,000, an increase from the loss before taxes of $762,000 in 2004. After
including taxes from international operations the loss was $7,423,000, an
increase of $6,719,000 over 2004. This compares to a 2003 loss of $608,000.  

     Liquidity and Capital Resources   

   Cash and Cash
Equivalents   

  At December 31, 2005,
our cash and cash equivalents were $5,554,000 as compared to $3,609,000 at December 31,
2004. We had $1,092,000 in borrowings against our $3.0 million equipment line
of credit as of December 31, 2005 and no borrowings against this line as
of December 31, 2004. We also had $18,024,000 in short-term securities at December 31,
2005 and no investments in short-term securities at December 31, 2004.  

   Operating
Activities   

  Net cash used by operating activities primarily
consists of net loss adjusted by non-cash items, including depreciation,
amortization, stock-based compensation, and the effect of changes in working
capital. Cash decreased during 2005 by a net loss of $7,423,000 compared to net
losses of $704,000 and  $608,000 for 
2004 and 2003, respectively. After adjustments for depreciation and
amortization and non-cash stock-based compensation charge, net cash used by
operating activities was $5,933,000 in 2005 as compared to net cash provided by
operating activities of $431,000 for 2004.  

  There were several changes in working capital in 2005.
Cash increased by $722,000 due to a reduction in accounts receivable and by
$363,000 due to a reduction in inventories. Accrued liabilities added to cash
in 2005 through an increase of $1,830,000 largely as a result of scheduled
payments outstanding on restructuring expenses.  

  After adjustments for all
non-cash items, including cash used for working capital, net cash used in
operating activities was $3,472,000 in 2005 compared to $2,469,000 used in
operating activities in 2004 and $929,000 provided by operating activities in
2003.  

   Cash Used in
Investing Activities   

  There was a net
utilization of cash of $19,921,000 in investing activities in 2005 primarily
due to the investments made in short-term securities and the acquisition of
fixed assets. This compares to $724,000 spent on fixed asset acquisitions in
2004. In December 2005 we purchased $45,768,000 in short-term investments
and sold $27,767,000 with varying maturities from three to fifteen months. As
of December 31, 2005 the value of these securities plus interest earned
increased by $24,000.  

40  

Cash Provided by
Financing Activities   

  There was a net contribution to cash from financing
activities of $25,749,000 in 2005 compared to net contributions of $2,511,000
and $3,447,000 in 2004 and 2003, respectively. This net contribution was
primarily due to our receipt of $22,174,000, net of expenses, from a stock
offering closed in November 2005, combined with cash receipts of
$2,477,000 from the sale of our common stock upon the exercise of outstanding
stock options and warrants.  

  As a result of the cash provided by operating and
financing activities and the cash used in investing activities, there was a net
increase in cash in 2005 of $1,945,000 that resulted in an ending cash balance
of $5,554,000. This compares to a net decrease in cash of $645,000 in 2004
resulting in an ending cash balance of $3,609,000 for 2004.  

  We had a Loan and Security Agreement (Accounts
Receivable and Inventory) dated December 7, 2002, with Comerica Bank for
$5 million through August 14, 2005. We agreed to a new bank line of credit
agreement with Silicon Valley Bank on August 15, 2005. This credit
facility is for $5.0 million, bears interest equal to prime plus 1.75% per
annum and is secured by accounts receivable. It has a minimum tangible net
worth covenant which we must meet going forward. On December 31, 2005 this
agreement was amended and restated to include an additional $3 million
term-loan line of credit for equipment purchases. This agreement calls for
repayment of principle in equal amounts over 4 years from the date of purchase
of the equipment and has an interest rate of prime plus 0.5% if the quick ratio
is greater than 1.5, and prime plus 1.5% if the quick ratio is at or below 1.5.
Borrowings under the Silicon Valley Agreement are collateralized by our assets
and intellectual property. Specific borrowings under the revolver are tied to
accounts receivable and inventory balances, and we are required to comply with
certain covenants with respect to effective net worth and financial ratios,
which we met as of December 31, 2005. We had total borrowings of
$1,092,000 under the term-loan portion of the agreement as of December 31,
2005, and had no borrowings under this portion as of December 31, 2004. We
pay an unused line fee of 0.25% against any unused daily balance during the
year.  

  Through our U.K. subsidiary, we maintain a bank
overdraft facility of $430,000 (in UK pounds sterling, based on the exchange
rate at December 31, 2005) under an agreement with Lloyds Bank Plc. There
were no borrowings against this facility as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. The facility is renewed annually on January 1.  

  Through our German subsidiary, we maintain a credit
facility under an agreement with Sparkasse Neumarkt Bank. This credit facility
is in place to finance our building of new offices in Berching, Germany which
is owned and occupied by our German subsidiary. As of December 31, 2005,
we had borrowings of $331,000 (in Euros, based on the exchange rate at December 31,
2005) against this credit facility, all of which comes due between 2006 and 2008.
In addition, our German subsidiary has a revolving line of credit for $177,000
(in Euros, based on the exchange rate at December 31, 2005) with Sparkasse
Neumarkt Bank. As of December 31, 2005, there were borrowings of $47,000
against this facility and no borrowings against this facility at December 31,
2004. The revolving facility is renewed annually on January 1.  

  In a March 2002 private placement, we sold
328,633 shares of common stock for net proceeds of $972,000 (net of fees and
expenses). In addition, we issued to each purchaser a warrant to purchase a
number of shares of our common stock equal to 20% of the number of shares
purchased by such purchaser in the offering. The $3.00 per share offering price
was based on an 8.8% discount on the 10-day average price as of March 14,
2002. The purchase price of the common stock for insiders who participated in
the offering was $3.35, which was the higher of (1) the price on the
closing date or (2) the 10-day average price as of March 14,
2002, plus a $.03 premium because of the issuances of the warrants. The
warrants have an initial exercise price of $4.30 per share, with a life of
5 years.  

  On June 17, 2003, we entered into a securities
purchase agreement to sell up to 1,350,233 shares of common stock and warrants
to purchase 405,069 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of
$4,388,250 in a two-stage private placement. The first stage of the private
placement, involving the sale of 923,078 shares of common stock and warrants to
purchase 276,922 shares of common stock, closed on   

41     

June 17, 2003 with
our receiving net proceeds of $2,769,000 (net of fees and expenses). The second
stage of the private placement, involving the sale of 427,155 shares of common
stock and warrants to purchase 128,147 shares of common stock, closed on August 18,
2003 with our receiving net proceeds of $1,043,000 (net of fees and expenses). As
required by NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, the issuance and sale of the shares and
warrants in the second stage were subject to shareholder approval because the
price was less than the greater of book or market value per share and amounted
to 20% or more of the our common stock. The shareholders approved the issuance
and sale of the shares and warrants in the second stage at a special meeting of
shareholders held on August 12, 2003. For both stages, the purchase price
of the common stock was $3.25 per share, which was a 12.5% discount on the 10-day
average price as of June 1, 2003. The warrants have an initial exercise price
of $4.50 per share and a life of 5 years. The warrants were valued at $641,000
and $297,000 for the first and second stages, respectively, based on a
Black-Scholes calculation as of the June 17, 2003 and August 18, 2003
closing dates and under EITF 00-19 were included at those values in
long-term liabilities at the time of each closing. The balance of the net
proceeds was accounted for as additional paid in capital. Under EITF 00-19,
we marked-to-market the value of the warrants at the end of each accounting
period until the registration statement for the shares and warrants was
declared effective by the SEC on September 24, 2003. Once the registration
statement for the shares and warrants was declared effective, the warrant value
on the effective date was reclassified to equity as additional paid in capital.
As a result of the change in value of the warrants issued in the first stage
from the closing date to the end of the second quarter on June 30, 2003,
we realized a benefit of $8,000 that was included in other income in the second
quarter of 2003. As a result of the change in value of the first stage warrants
from June 30, 2003 and the second stage warrants from the second closing
date to September 30, 2003, we realized a benefit of $15,000 that was included
in other income in the third quarter of 2003. We are subject to certain
indemnity provisions included in the stock purchase agreement entered into as
part of the financing. In  2003, we also
issued warrants to purchase 81,104 shares of common stock to the firm Merriman
Curhan Ford   Co. as compensation as placement agent for the private
placement. These warrants have the same terms as the warrants issued in the
private placement.  

  On November 8, 2005 the Company closed a
follow-on offering, selling 2,500,000 new shares of Common Stock at a price of
$8.25. The purchase price of the Common Stock was set at $8.25 per share on November 2,
2005, which was approximately a 5% discount on the closing price on that day. On
November 11, 2005 the Company announced that the underwriters had
exercised their option to sell an additional 452,497 shares of Common Stock for
$8.25 as part of the offering. The gross amount raised was $24.4 million from
the selling of 2,952,497 new shares, before costs and expenses. The net amount
received by the company after deducting 6% in underwriter s fees and legal,
accounting and other costs was $22.2 million.  

  We believe that our
existing cash balances, funds received from the financing described above and
funds available to us through our bank lines of credit together with funds that
we anticipate generating from our operations, will be sufficient to finance our
currently anticipated working capital requirements and capital expenditure
requirements for at least the next 12 to 18 months months. However, a sudden
increase in product demand requiring a significant increase in manufacturing
capability, or unforeseen adverse competitive, economic or other factors may
impact our cash position, and thereby affect operations. From time to time we
may be required to raise additional funds through public or private financing,
strategic relationships or other arrangements. There can be no assurance that
such funding, if needed, will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at
all. Furthermore, any additional equity financing may be dilutive to
shareholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive
covenants. Strategic arrangements, if necessary to raise additional funds, may
require that we relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products.
Failure to generate sufficient revenues or to raise capital when needed could
have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial
condition, as well as our ability to achieve intended business objectives.  

42     

Contractual Obligations   

  The
following summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005,
consisting of current and future payments for borrowings by our German
subsidiary, borrowings under an equipment term loan in the United States and
minimum lease payments under operating leases and the effect these obligations
are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

  We had no off-balance
sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2005 or 2004.  

     Recently
Issued Accounting Pronouncements   

   In December 2004, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) or SFAS 123R,  Share-Based Payments. 
SFAS 123R requires all  entities to recognize compensation expense in an
amount equal to the fair value of share-based payments, such as stock options  granted to employees. The Company will apply SFAS
123R using the modified prospective method. Under this method, the Company 
is required to record compensation expense (as previous awards continue to
vest) for the unvested portion of previously granted awards that remain
outstanding at the date of adoption. The Company could have elected to adopt
SFAS 123R by restating previously issued financial statements, basing the
amounts on the expense previously calculated and reported in the pro forma
disclosures that had been required by SFAS 123. SFAS 123R is effective for the
first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2005. In March 2005,
the SEC released Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107,  Share-Based Payment 
( SAB 107 ), which provides interpretive guidance related to the interaction
between SFAS 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations. It also
provides the SEC staff s views regarding valuation of share based payment
arrangements. When adopted SFAS 123R with SAB 107 will increase stock-based
compensation expense and reduce earnings in a manner previously only presented
as pro forma disclosure, with no or little impact on the Company s overall
financial position.  

  In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No.151,  Inventory Costs,  which amends part of ARB 43,  Inventory
Pricing,  concerning the treatment of certain types of inventory costs. The
provisions of ARB No. 43 provided that certain inventory-related  costs, such as double freight, re-handling, might
be  so abnormal  that they should be charged against current earnings rather
than be    included in the cost of
inventory and, that is capitalized to future periods. As amended by SFAS No. 151,
the  so-abnormal  criterion  has been eliminated. Thus, all such
(abnormal) costs are required to be treated as current-period charges under all
circumstances. In addition, fixed production overhead should be allocated based
on the normal capacity of the production facilities, with unallocated overhead
charged to expense when incurred. SFAS 151 is required to be adopted for fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company is assessing the impact
of adopting SFAS No.151, but does not believe its adoption will have a material
impact on the overall financial position.  

43     

Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures
About Market Risk   

  At December 31, 2005, we had $625,000 in cash
held in foreign currencies based on the exchange rates at December 31,
2005. It is our practice to maintain cash balances in local currencies subject
to periodic conversions prior to transfer to repay inter-company debts.  

  Through our German
subsidiary, we maintain a credit facility under an agreement with Sparkasse
Neumarkt Bank. At December 31, 2005, we had total borrowings of $331,000
against this facility which comes due between 2006 and 2008 and is secured by
real property owned by our German subsidiary. In addition, our German
subsidiary has a revolving line of credit for $177,000 (in Euros, based on the
exchange rate at December 31, 2005) with Sparkasse Neumarkt Bank. There
were $47,000 and no borrowings against this facility at December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively. If funds from the credit facility are used to repay
inter-company debts there is an exchange rate conversion risk.  

     Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.   

  Our consolidated financial
statements and related notes required by this item are listed and set forth in
this report at Item 15 beginning at page F-1. The accompanying notes
are an integral part of our consolidated financial statements.  

     Supplementary
Financial Information   

  The following table sets forth our selected unaudited
financial information for the eight quarters in the period ended December 31,
2005. This information has been prepared on the same basis as the audited
financial statements and, in the opinion of management, contains all
adjustments necessary for a fair presentation thereof.  

44  

QUARTERLY
FINANCIAL DATA 
(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)   

Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

  None.  

     Item 9A. Controls and Procedures   

  (a)     Evaluation of disclosure controls and
procedures.     We maintain  disclosure controls and procedures, 
as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ), that are designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within
the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and
forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In
designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management
recognized that disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well
conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance
that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met. Our
disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to meet, and management
believes that they meet, reasonable assurance standards, subject to the
deficiencies and weaknesses identified and discussed under the sub-heading  Changes
in Internal Controls  at Item 9A(b) below. Additionally, in designing
disclosure controls and procedures, our management necessarily was required to
apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible
disclosure controls and procedures. The design of any disclosure controls and
procedures also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood
of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in
achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.  

  Based on their evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have concluded that, subject to the limitations noted above
our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material
information   

45     

relating to us, including our consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to them by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this Annual Report on Form 10-K
was being prepared.  

  (b)     Changes in internal controls.     There
was no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
under the Exchange Act) identified in connection with the evaluation described
in Item 9A(a) above that occurred during our last fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.  

   A 
control deficiency exists when the design or operation of a control does not
allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their
assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. A
significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or combination of control
deficiencies, that adversely affects a company s ability to initiate,
authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the
entity s annual or interim financial statements that is more than
inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. A material weakness is a
significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that
results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the
annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected.  

     Item 9B. Other Information   

  Not applicable.  

46  

PART III   

     Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant   

  The information required
by this Item regarding directors and nominees is incorporated herein by
reference to the information under the caption  PROPOSAL NO. 1: ELECTION OF
DIRECTORS  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC in
connection with the solicitation of proxies for 
our 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 15, 2006
(the  Proxy Statement ). Information on our executive officers may be found in Part I.  

   Item 405 of
Regulation S-K calls for disclosure of any known late filings or failure
by an insider to file a report required by Section 16 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. This disclosure is contained in
the section entitled  SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING
COMPLIANCE  in the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   

  We have a separately designated standing Audit
Committee established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The members of the Audit Committee
are Ronald Casentini (Chairperson), Michael Kasper and John B. Stuppin. All of
such members meet the independence standards established by The NASDAQ Stock
Market for serving on an audit committee. SEC regulations require that we
disclose whether a director qualifying as an  audit committee financial expert 
serves on our Audit Committee. Our Board of Directors has determined that both Mr. Casentini
and Mr. Stuppin qualify as an  audit committee financial expert  within
the meaning of such regulations.  

  Our Board of Directors
adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for all of its directors,
officers and employees on February 25, 2004. To request a copy of the Code
of Ethics and Business Conduct, please send a written request to our Secretary
at Fiberstars Inc., 32000 Aurora Road, Solon, OH 44139. It is also available
from our corporate website http://www.fiberstars.com.  

     Item 11. Executive Compensation   

  The information regarding
executive compensation required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference
from the information in the Proxy Statement under the captions  EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION AND OTHER MATTERS,   PROPOSAL NO. 1: ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Director
Compensation  and  PROPOSAL NO. 1: ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation.   

     Item
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters   

  The information regarding
security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management required by
Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference from the information in the
Proxy Statement under the caption  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS
AND MANAGEMENT.   

47     

Equity
Compensation Plan Information   

  The
following table sets forth certain information regarding our equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2005:   

Plan category   

Number of securities 
  to be issued upon 
  exercise of 
  outstanding options, 
  warrants and rights 
  (a)   

Weighted-average 
  exercise price of 
  outstanding options, 
  warrants and rights 
  (b)   

Number of securities 
  remaining available for 
  future issuance under 
  equity compensation plans 
  (excluding securities 
  reflected in column (a)) 
  (c)   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders  

1,075,000  

$  

6.67  

24,000  

(1)(2)  

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders  

8,000  

$  

4.50  

Total  

1,083,000  

(3)  

$  

6.04  

24,000  

(1)             Includes the number of
shares reserved for issuance under our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan. 

  (2)             Includes 10,000 shares
available for sale pursuant to our 1994 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Shares of
common stock will be purchased at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value
per share of common stock on either the first day preceding the offering period
or the last date of the offering period, whichever is less. 

  (3)             Includes
8,000 warrants held by employees or directors. 

     Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions   

  The information regarding
certain relationships and related transactions required by Item 13 is
incorporated herein by reference to the information in the Proxy Statement
under the caption  CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS.   

     Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

  The information regarding
principal accountant fees and services and the pre-approval policies and
procedures required by Item 14 is incorporated by reference from the
information contained in the Proxy Statement under the caption  RATIFICATION OF
APPOINTMENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS Principal Accountant
Fees and Services  and  RATIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures.   

48     

PART IV   

     Item 15. Exhibits AND Financial Statement Schedule   

  (a)   (1) Financial
Statements  

49  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM   

    To the Board of Directors
and Shareholders of 
Fiberstars, Inc.  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Fiberstars, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005
and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations,  comprehensive income (loss), shareholders  equity ,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to
perform an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits
included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis
for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no
such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of Fiberstars, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  

  Our audits were conducted
for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial statements taken
as a whole. The financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of
this Form 10-K is presented for purposes of additional analysis and
is not a required part of the basic financial statements. This schedule has
been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic
financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material
respects in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.  

  /s/ Grant Thornton LLP  

  San Francisco, California 
March 10, 2006  

F-  1  

FIBERSTARS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS, December 31, 
  (amounts in thousands except share and per share
amounts)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.     F-  2  

FIBERSTARS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
For the years ended December 31, 
  (amounts in thousands except per share amounts)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.     F-  3  

FIBERSTARS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 
For the years ended December 31, 
  (amounts in thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.     F-  4  

FIBERSTARS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 
  (amounts in thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.     F-  5  

FIBERSTARS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the years ended December 31, 
  (amounts in thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements     F-  6  

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

   1.       Nature
of Operations: 

  Fiberstars, Inc.
(the  Company ) develops and assembles lighting products using fiber optic
technology for commercial lighting and swimming pool and spa lighting
applications. The Company markets its products for worldwide distribution
primarily through independent sales representatives, distributors and swimming
pool builders.  

   2.       Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies: 

   Basis of
Presentation:   

  The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Fiberstars, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
All significant inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated.  

   Use of Estimates:   

  The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported
period.   Estimates include, but are not limited to, the establishment of
reserves for accounts receivable, sales returns, inventory obsolescence and
warranty claims; the useful lives for property, equipment, and intangible
assets, and stock-based compensation.  Actual results could differ
from those estimates. 

   Cash Equivalents:   

  The Company considers all
highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of three months
or less to be cash equivalents.  

   Short-Term
Investments:   

  The Company s short-term investments are classified as
available-for-sale, which are stated at estimated fair value. The Company has
determined its short-term investments are available to support current
operations and, accordingly, has classified such short-term investments as
current assets without regard for contractual maturities. These short-term
investments are invested through a major financial institution. The unrealized
gains or losses on these short-term investments are included in accumulated
other comprehensive income as a separate component of shareholder s equity
until realized.  

  Short-term
investments at December 31, 2005 were as follows (  in
thousands)  :  

F-  7     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

2.       Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies: (Continued) 

  The short-term investments maturing in 2006 total
$14,366. The remaining short-term investments have scheduled maturity dates in
2007 and consist of the Federal Farm Credit and a portion of the Federal Home
Loan investments.  

  The change in net unrealized holding gains on
securities available for sale in the amount of $16,000 has been charged to
other comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2005. This is
made up of gross unrealized gains of $19,000 during 2005 included in
accumulated other comprehensive income, net of unrealized losses of $3,000
during 2005 also included in accumulated other comprehensive income. The cost
of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.  

  Proceeds from the sale of
available securities during 2005 were $27,767,000. Gross gains of $8,000 were
realized on the sales of available for sale securities during 2005.  

   Investments in
Joint Ventures:   

  The Company records its
investments in joint ventures under the equity method of accounting. These were
immaterial in 2005.  

   Fair Value of
Financial Instruments:   

  Carrying amounts of
certain of the Company s financial instruments including cash and cash
equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable and accounts payable
approximate fair value due to their short maturities. Based on borrowing rates
currently available to the Company for loans with similar terms, the carrying
value of long-term debt obligations also approximates fair value.  

   Revenue
Recognition:   

  The Company recognizes revenue upon: (1) receipt
of a purchase order from the customer or completion of a sales agreement with
the customer; (2) shipment of the product has occurred or services have
been provided; and (3) the sales price is fixed or determinable and
collectibility is reasonably assured. Revenue from product sales is generally
recognized upon shipment, and allowances are provided for estimated returns,
discounts and warranties. Such allowances are adjusted periodically to reflect
actual and anticipated returns, discounts and warranty expenses. Revenue on
sales that include services such as design, integration and installation is
generally recognized using the percentage-of-completion method. Under the
percentage-of-completion method, revenue recognized reflects the portion of the
anticipated contract revenue that has been earned, equal to the ratio of labor
costs expended to date to anticipated final labor costs, based on current
estimates of labor costs to complete the project. The Company s products are
generally subject to warranties, and the Company provides for the estimated
future costs of repair, replacement or customer accommodation in costs of
sales. Fees for research and development services are determined on a cost-plus
basis and are recognized as revenue when performed.  

  The Company recognizes
shipments to pool lighting distributors as revenue upon shipment. Estimated
sales returns are recorded upon recognition of revenues from distributors
having rights of return, including exchange rights for unsold products.
Shipments made to commercial lighting representatives and distributors are also
recognized as revenue upon shipment because in these instances the
representative or   

F-  8     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

2.       Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies: (Continued) 

  distributor
is acting as a pass-through agent to a specific lighting project for which the
Company has an existing contract or purchase order.  

   Inventories:   

  The Company states
inventories at the lower of standard cost (which approximates actual cost
determined using the first-in-first-out method) or market. The Company
establishes provisions for excess and obsolete inventories after evaluation of
historical sales, current economic trends, forecasted sales, product lifecycles
and current inventory levels. Charges to cost of sales for excess and obsolete
inventories amounted to $196,000, $116,000 and $128,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.  

   Accounts
Receivable:   

  The Company s customers
are currently concentrated in the United States and Europe. In the normal
course of business, the Company extends unsecured credit to its customers
related to the sale of its products. Typical credit terms require payment
within 30 days from the date of delivery or service. The Company evaluates and
monitors the creditworthiness of each customer on a case-by-case basis. The
Company provides allowances for sales returns and doubtful accounts based on
its continuing evaluation of its customers  ongoing requirements and credit
risk. The Company writes-off accounts receivable when they become
uncollectible, and payments subsequently received on such receivables are
credited to the allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company does not require
collateral from its customers.  

   Income Taxes:   

  As part of the process of preparing its consolidated
financial statements, the Company estimates its income tax liability in each of
the jurisdictions in which it does business. This process involves estimating
the Company s actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary
differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deferred
revenues, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred
tax assets and liabilities, which are included in the consolidated balance
sheet. The Company then assesses the likelihood that these deferred tax assets
will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent the Company
believes that recovery is not more likely than not, or is unknown, the Company
establishes a valuation allowance.  

  Significant management
judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes, the
deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded
against such deferred tax assets. At December 31, 2005, the Company s
deferred tax assets primarily consist mainly of certain net operating losses
carried forward. The Company has recorded a full valuation allowance of
$6,747,000 against these deferred tax assets, due to uncertainties related to
its ability to utilize those deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance is
based on estimates of taxable income by jurisdiction and the periods over which
its deferred tax assets could be recoverable.  

   Long-lived Assets:   

  Goodwill represents the
excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of tangible and identified
intangible net assets of the businesses acquired. Goodwill is not amortized,
but is subjected to an annual   

F-  9     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

2.       Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies: (Continued) 

  impairment
test. Intangible assets from acquisitions are stated at cost and are amortized
on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the assets acquired, but in
no case for a period longer than 10 years. Fixed assets are stated at cost
and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets (two to five years). Leasehold improvements are
amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or the
lease term, whichever is shorter, generally 3 to 7 years. When events or
changes in circumstances indicate that assets may be impaired, an evaluation is
performed comparing the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated
with the asset to the asset s carrying amount to determine if a write-down to
market value or discounted cash flow is required.  

   Certain Risks and
Concentrations:   

  The Company invests its excess cash in deposits and
high-grade short-term securities with a major financial institution that is
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) up to $100,000
and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation ( SIPC ) up to $500,000 of
primary net equity protection including $100,000 for claims for cash. At times
the cash balances exceed the amounts insured by the FDIC. Currently the Company
has approximately $18 million in short term securities invested with Bear
Stearns Securities Corporation, under the management of Seneca Capital. The
Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and believes it is not
exposed to significant risk of loss.  

  The Company sells its products primarily to commercial
lighting distributors and residential pool distributors and pool installation
contractors in North America, Europe and the Far East. The Company performs
ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and generally does not require
collateral. Although the Company maintains allowances for potential credit
losses that it believes to be adequate, a payment default on a significant sale
could materially and adversely affect its operating results and financial
condition. At December 31, 2005, one customer accounted for 8% of accounts
receivable and at December 31, 2004, the one customer accounted for 10% of
accounts receivable. One customer accounted for 11%, 10% and 11% of net sales
in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  

  The Company currently buys all of its small diameter
stranded fiber, the main component of most of its products, from one supplier.
There is a limited number of fiber suppliers, and even if an alternative
supplier were obtained, a change in suppliers could cause delays in
manufacturing and a possible loss of sales which would adversely affect
operating results.  

  The Company also relies on
sole source suppliers for certain lamps, reflectors, remote control devices and
power supplies. Although the Company cannot predict the affect that the loss of
one or more of such suppliers would have on the Company, such loss could result
in delays in the shipment of products and additional expenses associated with redesigning
products and could have a material adverse affect on the Company s operating
results.  

   Research and
Development:   

  Research and development costs are charged to
operations as incurred. In 2000 the Company received a federal grant from the
National Institute of Standards and Technology ( NIST ) for $2,000,000 over
three years for research and development of solid core fiber for lighting
purposes. This award provided the Company with $566,000 in research and
development credits for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003.  

F-  10     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

2.       Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies: (Continued) 

  In February 2003,  Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA,  awarded the
Company and its partners a research and development contract for the
development of next generation light sources, optics, luminaire and integrated
illuminated technologies for its High Efficiency Distributed Lighting
(HEDLight) project. The DARPA contract calls for gross payments of $7,824,000
to the Company over three years based on achievement of various research and
development milestones. On April 10, 2003 the Company announced that it
and APL Engineered Materials, a subsidiary of Advanced Lighting Technologies
Inc. (ADLT), were awarded a further $2.7 million research and development
contract from DARPA to develop a new arc discharge light source. The contracts
provided the Company $1,966,000, $2,502,000 and $1,463,000 in research and
development credits for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 respectively, net of subcontractor fees. The milestones are for work
performed in developing fiber optic illuminators and fixtures for installation
on ships and aircraft. Funds for each year are subject to annual congressional
budget approval.  

  During 2005, the Company
received a total of $1.5 million in awards from the Department of Energy under
its Small Business Innovation Research  SBIR  program to improve its energy
saving lighting technology, EFO. In addition, further SBIR awards from the
Department of Defense under DARPA totaling $200,000 were obtained to further
explore improvements to lamp coatings and design and to further research
materials and processing techniques for the Company s Continuously Extruded
Large Core Fiber processing method.  

   Earnings Per Share:   

  Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by
dividing income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per
share is computed giving effect to all dilutive potential common shares that
were outstanding during the period. Dilutive potential common shares consist of
incremental shares upon exercise of stock options.  

  A
reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of basic and diluted earnings
(loss) per share is provided as follows   (in thousands, except per
share amounts)  :  

The shares outstanding used for calculating basic and
diluted earnings (loss) per share for a portion of the year 2005 included
156,375 shares of common stock and 114,375 and 445,000 shares of common stock
in 2004 and 2003 issuable for no cash consideration upon exercise of certain
exchange provisions of warrants held by ADLT and two of its former employees.  

F-  11  

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

   2. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies: (Continued)   

  Options and warrants to
purchase 1,485,678 shares, 2,167,903 shares and 1,989,017 shares of common
stock were outstanding at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively,
but were not included in the calculations of diluted earnings (loss) per share
because the Company had a loss for these years and their inclusion would be
anti-dilutive.  

   Stock-Based
Compensation:   

  As of December 31,
2005, the Company has two stock-based employee compensation plans, which
are described more fully in Note 9. The Company accounts for those plans
under the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25,   Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,   and related
Interpretations. Under these principles, employee stock options are valued at
the excess of the fair value of the underlying common stock over the exercise
price of the options on the grant date. 
The Company accounts for equity instruments issued to non-employees in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123 and related
interpretations. Under these principles, the equity instruments are valued at
the fair value which is computed based on stock price on the date of grant or
other measurement date, exercise price, estimated life, stock volatility and
the risk free rate of interest.  

  The following table
illustrates the effect on net income and earnings (loss) per share if the
Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement No. 123,
  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  
to stock-based employee compensation.  

   (in thousands,
except per share amounts):   

F-  12     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

2. Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies: (Continued)   

  The fair value of each
option grant and stock purchase plan grant combined is estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions used for grants in 2005, 2004 and 2003:  

Foreign Currency
Translation:   

  The Company s
international subsidiaries use their local currencies as their functional
currencies. For those subsidiaries, assets and liabilities are translated at
exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and income and expense
accounts at average exchange rates during the year. Resulting translation
adjustments are recorded directly to accumulated comprehensive income within
the statement of shareholders equity. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses
are included as a component of interest income and other. Gains and losses from
foreign currency translation are included as a separate component of
comprehensive income (expense) within the consolidated statement of operations.  

   Advertising
Expenses:   

  The Company expenses the
costs of advertising, which consists of costs for the placement of
advertisements in various media as incurred. Advertising expenses were
$192,000, $206,000 and $119,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.  

   Product warranties:   

  The
Company warrants finished goods against defects in material and workmanship
under normal use and service for periods of one to three years for illuminators
and fiber. Settlement costs consist of actual amounts expensed for warranty
services, which are largely a result of third party service calls, and costs of
replacement products. A liability for the estimated future costs under product
warranties is maintained based on estimated future warranty expense for
products outstanding under warranty   (in thousands)  :  

F-  13     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

2. Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies: (Continued)   

   Recent
Pronouncements:   

   In December 2004, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) or SFAS 123R,  Share-Based
Payments.  SFAS 123R requires all  entities to recognize compensation
expense in an amount equal to the fair value of share-based payments, such as
stock options  granted to employees. The
Company will apply SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method. Under
this method, the Company  is required to record compensation expense (as
previous awards continue to vest) for the unvested portion of previously
granted awards that remain outstanding at the date of adoption. The Company
could have elected to adopt SFAS 123R by restating previously issued
financial statements, basing the amounts on the expense previously calculated
and reported in the pro forma disclosures that had been required by
SFAS 123. SFAS 123R is effective for the first fiscal year beginning
after December 15, 2005. In March 2005, the SEC released Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 107,  Share-Based Payment  ( SAB 107 ), which
provides interpretive guidance related to the interaction between SFAS 123(R)
and certain SEC rules and regulations. It also provides the SEC staff s
views regarding valuation of share based payment arrangements. When adopted
SFAS 123R with SAB 107 will increase stock-based compensation expense
and reduce earnings in a manner previously only presented as pro forma
disclosure, with no or little impact on the Company s overall financial
position.  

  In December 2004,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs,  which amends part of
ARB 43,  Inventory Pricing,  concerning the treatment of certain types of
inventory costs. The provisions of ARB No. 43 provided that certain
inventory-related  costs, such as double
freight, re-handling, might be  so abnormal  that they should be charged
against current earnings rather than be    included in the cost of inventory and, that is capitalized to future
periods. As amended by SFAS No. 151, the  so-abnormal  criterion 
has been eliminated. Thus, all such (abnormal) costs are required to be treated
as current-period charges under all circumstances. In addition, fixed
production overhead should be allocated based on the normal capacity of the
production facilities, with unallocated overhead charged to expense when
incurred. SFAS 151 is required to be adopted for fiscal years beginning
after June 15, 2005. The Company is assessing the impact of adopting SFAS
No. 151, but does not believe its adoption will have a material impact on
the overall financial position.  

   3.
Inventories     (in
thousands)  : 

F-  14     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

4.
Fixed Assets     (in
thousands)  : 

Fixed assets are stated at
cost and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives of the related assets (two to five years). Leasehold improvements
are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or the
lease term, whichever is shorter, generally 3 to 7 years.  

   5. Goodwill and
Intangibles   

  In accordance with SFAS 142, goodwill is subject
to an annual impairment test. The Company performs the test in the fourth
quarter of every year. The tests showed no impairment of the Company s goodwill
asset.  

  The
changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill and intangibles for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows   (in
thousands)  :  

Intangibles at December 31, 2005 include
developed and core technology and patents with a gross carrying amount of
$399,000 and $371,000, respectively, and accumulated amortization of $399,000
and $371,000, respectively. Intangibles at December 31, 2004 include
developed and core technology and patents with a gross carrying amount of
$399,000 and $371,000, respectively, and accumulated amortization of $322,000
and $298,000, respectively.  

  The estimated annual
amortization expense for intangibles is zero for fiscal 2006 and thereafter.  

F-  15  

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

   6.
Accruals and Other Current Liabilities      (in thousands): (Continued)    

7.
Bank Borrowings:   

  The Company had a Loan and Security Agreement
(Accounts Receivable and Inventory) dated December 7, 2002, with Comerica
Bank for $5 million through August 14, 2005. The Company agreed to a new
bank revolving  line of credit agreement
with Silicon Valley Bank on August 15, 2005. This credit facility is for
$5.0 million, bears interest equal to prime plus 1.75% per annum and is
secured by accounts receivable. It has a minimum tangible net worth covenant
which the Company must meet going forward. On December 31, 2005 this
agreement was amended and restated to include an additional $3 million
term-loan line of credit for equipment purchases. This agreement calls for
repayment of principal in equal amounts over 4 years from the date of purchase
of the equipment and has an interest rate of prime plus 0.5% if the quick ratio
is greater than 1.5, and prime plus 1.5% if the quick ratio is at or below 1.5.
Borrowings under the Silicon Valley Agreement are collateralized by the Company s
assets and intellectual property. Specific borrowings under the revolver are
tied to accounts receivable and inventory balances, and the Company is required
to comply with certain covenants with respect to effective net worth and
financial ratios, which the Company met as of December 31, 2005. The
Company had no borrowings under the revolving line of credit at December 31,
2005 and at December 31, 2004. The Company had total borrowings of
$1,092,000 under the term-loan portion of the agreement as of December 31,
2005 under terms described above, and had no borrowings under this portion as
of December 31, 2004. The Company pays an unused line fee of 0.25% against
any unused daily balance during the year.  

  Through its U.K. subsidiary, the Company maintains a
bank overdraft facility of $430,000 (in UK pounds sterling, based on the
exchange rate at December 31, 2005) under an agreement with Lloyds Bank
Plc. There were no borrowings against this facility as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. The facility is renewed annually on January 1.  

  Through its German subsidiary, the Company maintains a
credit facility under an agreement with Sparkasse Neumarkt Bank. This credit
facility is in place to finance our building of new offices in Berching,
Germany, which is owned and occupied by our German subsidiary. As of December 31,
2005, the Company had borrowings of $331,000 (in Euros, based on the exchange
rate at December 31, 2005) against this credit facility, all of which
comes due between 2006 and 2008. In addition, our German subsidiary has a
revolving line of credit for $177,000 (in Euros, based on the exchange rate at December 31,
2005) with Sparkasse Neumarkt Bank. As of December 31, 2005, there were
borrowings of $47,000 against this facility and no borrowings against this
facility at December 31, 2004. The revolving facility is renewed annually
on January 1.  

F-  16     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

8.
Commitments and Contingencies:   

  The
Company occupies manufacturing and office facilities under non-cancelable
operating leases expiring through 2011 under which it is responsible for
related maintenance, taxes, and insurance. Minimum lease commitments under the
leases are as follows   (in
thousands):    

These leases included
certain escalation clauses and thus rent expense was recorded on a
straight-line basis. Rent expense approximated $1,026,000, $839,000 and
$891,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.  

  At December 31, 2005,
a letter of credit in the amount of $261,000 was held by the Company on behalf
of Sparkasse Neumarkt Bank. The letter of credit would be drawn against the
Company s line of credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank in the event of a
default by the Company s German subsidiary, LBM, on its outstanding loan with
Sparkasse Neumarkt Bank.  

  On December 20, 2005,
the Company entered into a settlement agreement with Sherwin-Williams Company
(or Sherwin-Williams) and The Wagner Electric Sign Company (or Wagner). The
Company was a third-party defendant in a lawsuit filed in the Court of Common
Pleas, Cuyahoga County, Ohio filed on September 21, 2004, for alleged
breach of warranty and breach of contract in connection with an allegedly
defective sign manufactured and sold by Wagner. The settlement agreement calls
for certain payments to be made to Sherwin-Williams by the defendant parties
and for certain repairs to be made.  

   9.
Shareholders  Equity:   

   Common Stock:   

  The Company had
shareholder notes receivable outstanding of $62,000 for warrants exercised in
2005 and paid for in 2006.  

   Warrants:   

  As part of the acquisition of Unison Fiber Optic
Lighting Systems, LLC in 2000, the Company provided ADLT with warrants to purchase
one million shares of the Company s common stock exercisable at one penny per
share. 518,000 of these warrants were exercised in 2004 and 482,000 were
exercised in 2005.  

  As part of the acquisition in 2000 of Lightly
Expressed, Ltd, or Lightly Expressed, the Company granted the Lightly Expressed
shareholders warrants to purchase 100,000 shares which may be exercised in
three years if certain operating profits from sales of the products acquired
are met. There were no warrants for 
shares of common stock exercisable as of December 31, 2005.  

F-  17     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

9. Shareholders  Equity: 
(Continued)   

  On June 17, 2003, the Company entered into a
securities purchase agreement to sell up to 1,350,233 shares of Common Stock and
warrants to purchase 405,069 shares of Common Stock for an aggregate purchase
price of $4,388,250 in a two-stage private placement. The first stage of the
private placement, involving the sale of 923,078 shares of Common Stock and
warrants to purchase 276,922 shares of Common Stock, closed on June 17,
2003 with the Company receiving net proceeds of $2,769,000 (net of fees and
expenses). The second stage of the private placement, involving the sale of
427,155 shares of Common Stock and warrants to purchase 128,147 shares of
Common Stock, closed on August 18, 2003 with the Company receiving net
proceeds of $1,043,000 (net of fees and expenses).  As required by Nasdaq Marketplace Rules,
the issuance and sale of the shares and warrants in the second stage were subject
to shareholder approval because the price was less than the greater of book or
market value per share and amounted to 20% or more of the Company s Common
Stock. The shareholders approved the issuance and sale of the shares and
warrants in the second stage at a special meeting of shareholders held on August 12,
2003. For both stages, the purchase price of the Common Stock was $3.25
per share, which was a 12.5% discount on the 10-day average price as of June 1,
2003. The warrants have an initial exercise price of $4.50 per share and a life
of 5 years. The warrants were valued at $641,000 and $297,000 for the first and
second stages, respectively, based on a Black-Scholes calculation as of the June 17,
2003 and August 18, 2003 closing dates and under EITF 00-19 were
included at those values in long-term liabilities at the time of each closing. The
balance of the net proceeds was accounted for as additional paid in capital. Under
EITF 00-19, the Company marked-to-market the value of the warrants
at the end of each accounting period until the registration statement for the
shares and warrants was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( SEC ) on September 24, 2003. Once the registration statement
for the shares and warrants was declared effective, the warrant value on the
effective date was reclassified to equity as additional paid in capital. As a
result of the change in value of the warrants from the first stage from the
closing date to the end of the second quarter on June 30, 2003, the
Company realized a benefit of $8,000 which was included in other income in the
second quarter of 2003. As a result of the change in value of the first stage
warrants from June 30, 2003 and the second stage warrants from the second
closing date to September 30, 2003, the Company realized a benefit of
$15,000 which was included in other income in the third quarter of 2003. The
Company is subject to certain indemnity provisions included in the stock
purchase agreement entered into as part of the financing. In December 2003,
the Company also issued warrants to purchase 81,104 shares of common stock to
the firm Merriman Curhan Ford   Co. as compensation as placement agent
for the private placement. These warrants have the same terms as the warrants
issued in the private placement. 

  In a private placement in March 2002, the Company
sold 328,633 shares of common stock for $972,000, net of fees and expenses of
$28,000. In addition, each purchaser was issued a warrant to purchase a number
of shares of the Company s common stock equal to 20% of the number of shares of
common stock purchased by such purchaser in the offering. The purchase price of
the common stock was $3.00 per share, which was based on an 8.8% discount on
the 10-day average price as of March 14, 2002. The purchase price of
the common stock for insiders who participated in the offering was $3.35, which
was the higher of (1) the price on the closing date or (2) the 10-day
average price as of March 14, 2002, plus a $.03 premium because of the
issuances of the warrants. The warrants have an initial exercise price of $4.30
per share, with a life of 5 years.  

F-  18     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

9. Shareholders  Equity: (Continued)   

  Warrant activity
comprised:  

1988 Stock Option Plan:   

  Upon adoption of the 1994 Stock Option Plan (see
below), the Company s Board of Directors determined to make no further grants
under the 1988 Stock Option Plan (the 1988 Plan). Upon cancellation or
expiration of any options granted under the 1988 Plan, the related reserved
shares of common stock became available instead for options granted under the
1994 Stock Option Plan, and, after May 19, 2004, under our 2004 Stock
Incentive Plan.  

   1994 Directors  Stock Option Plan:   

  At December 31, 2004, a total of 400,000 shares
of common stock had been reserved for issuance under the 1994 Directors  Stock
Option Plan. The plan provided for the granting of nonstatutory stock options
to non-employee directors of the Company. This plan was terminated on May 19,
2004.  

   1994 Stock Option Plan:   

  At December 31, 2005, an aggregate of 1,550,000
shares of the Company s common stock had been reserved for issuance under the
1994 Stock Option Plan to employees, officers, and consultants at prices not
lower than the fair market value of the common stock of the Company on the date
of grant in the case of incentive stock options, and not lower than 85% of the
fair market value on the date of grant in the case of non-statutory stock
options. Options granted may be either incentive stock options or nonstatutory
stock options. The plan administrator (the Board of Directors or a committee of
the Board) determines the terms of options granted under the plan including the
number of shares subject to the option, exercise price, term and exercisability.
This plan was terminated on May 19, 2004.  

F-  19  

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

   9. Shareholders  Equity:
(Continued)   

   2004 Stock
Incentive Plan   

  On May 19, 2004,
the shareholders approved the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2004 Plan ). The
stated purpose of the 2004 Plan is to promote the long-term success of the
Company and the creation of stockholder value by (a) encouraging
employees, outside directors and consultants to focus on critical long-range
objectives, (b) encouraging the attraction and retention of employees,
outside directors and consultants with exceptional qualifications and (c) linking
employees, outside directors and consultants directly to stockholder interests
through increased stock ownership. The 2004 Plan seeks to achieve this purpose
by providing for awards in the form of restricted shares, stock units, options
(which may constitute incentive stock options or nonstatutory stock options) or
stock appreciation rights. An aggregate of 500,000 shares of the Company s
common stock was reserved for issuance under the 2004 Plan on May 19,
2004.  

  Option
activity under all plans comprised:  

F-  20     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

9. Shareholders 
Equity: (Continued)   

  At December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, options to purchase 539,000 shares, 703,404 shares and 1,005,466
shares of common stock, respectively, were exercisable at weighted average fair
values of $5.61, $5.36 and $4.86, respectively.  

1994 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan:   

  A total of 100,000 shares
of common stock had been reserved for issuance under the 1994 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan. The plan permits eligible employees to purchase common stock
through payroll deductions at a price equal to the lower of 85% of the fair
market value of the Company s common stock at the beginning or end of the
offering period. Employees may end their participation at any time during the
offering period, and participation ends automatically on termination of
employment with the Company. At December 31, 2005, 90,306 shares had been
issued under this plan.  

   Shareholder Rights
Plan   

  On September 12,
2001, the Board of Directors of Fiberstars, Inc. declared a dividend
distribution of one  Right  for each outstanding share of common stock of the
Company to shareholders of record at the close of business on September 26,
2002. One Right will also attach to each share of common stock issued by the
Company subsequent to such date and prior to the distribution date defined
below. With certain exceptions, each Right, when exercisable, entitles the
registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a
share of a new series of preferred stock, designated as Series A
Participating Preferred Stock, at a price of $30.00 per one one-thousandth
of a share, subject to adjustment. The Rights were distributed as a non-taxable
dividend and expire ten years from the date of the Rights Plan. In general, the
Rights will become exercisable and trade independently from the common stock on
a distribution date that will occur on the earlier of (i) the public
announcement of the acquisition by a person or group of 15% or more of the
common stock or (ii) ten days after commencement of a tender or exchange
offer for the common stock that would result in the acquisition of 15% or more
of the common stock. Upon the occurrence of certain other events related to
changes in ownership of the common stock, each holder of a Right would be
entitled to purchase shares of common stock, or an acquiring corporation s
common stock, having a market value of twice the exercise price. Under certain
conditions, the Rights may be redeemed at $0.001 per Right by the Board of
Directors. The description and terms of   

F-  21     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

9. Shareholders 
Equity: (Continued)   

  the
Rights are set forth in a Rights Agreement dated as of September 20, 2002
between the Company and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as rights agent.  

   Follow-On Stock
Offering   

  On November 8, 2005
the Company closed a follow-on offering, selling 2,500,000 new shares of Common
Stock at a price of $8.25. The purchase price of the Common Stock was set at
$8.25 per share on November 2, 2005, which was approximately a 5%
discount on the closing price on that day. On November 11, 2005 the
Company announced that the underwriters had exercised their option to sell an
additional 452,497 shares of Common Stock for $8.25 as part of the offering. The
gross amount raised was $24.4 million from the selling of 2,952,497 new shares,
before costs and expenses. The net amount received by the company after
deducting 6% in underwriter s fees and legal, accounting and other costs was
$22.2 million.  

   10. Income Taxes:   

  The
components of the benefit from (provision for) income taxes are as follows   (in thousands)  :  

The
following table shows the geographic components of pretax income (loss) between
United States and foreign subsidiaries   (in thousands)  :  

F-  22  

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

   10. Income Taxes:
(Continued)   

  The principal items
accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the United
States statutory rate and the benefit from (provision for) income taxes
reflected in the statements of operations are as follows:  

The
tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of
the deferred tax assets are as follows   (in thousands)  :  

The Company has a full valuation allowance against its
deferred tax assets. There was a minimal tax expense for the United States
operations in 2005 as any expected benefit has been offset by and increase in
the valuation allowance. The $58,000 tax benefit shown for 2004 is a result of
deferred tax for the German operations which experienced a loss in 2004 after
being profitable in prior years.  

  As of December 31, 2005, the Company has a net
operating loss carry-forward of approximately $11.9 million and
$9.4 million for federal and state income tax purposes, respectively. If
not utilized, these carry-forwards will begin to expire in 2020 for federal and
2008 for state purposes.  

  Under the Internal Revenue
Code Section 382, the amounts of and benefits from net operating losses
carry-forwards may be impaired in certain circumstances. Events which cause
limitations in the amount of net operating losses that the Company may utilize
in any one year include, but are not limited to, a cumulative ownership change
of more than 50%, as defined, over a three year period.  

   11. Segments and
Geographic Information:   

  The Company has two primary product lines: the pool
and spa lighting product line and the commercial lighting product line, each of
which markets and sells fiber optic lighting products. The   

F-  23     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

11. Segments
and Geographic Information:  (Continued)   

  Company markets its
products for worldwide distribution primarily through independent sales representatives,
distributors and swimming pool builders in North America, Europe and the Far
East.  

  A
summary of geographic sales is as follows   (in thousands)  :  

A summary of geographic
long-lived assets (fixed assets and goodwill) is as follows   (in thousands)  :  

A
summary of sales by product line is as follows   (in
thousands)  :  

12. Employee Retirement
Plan:   

  The Company maintains a
401(k) profit sharing plan for its employees who meet certain
qualifications. The Plan allows eligible employees to defer up to 15% of their
earnings, not to exceed the statutory amount per year on a pretax basis through
contributions to the Plan. The Plan provides for employer contributions at the
discretion of the Board of Directors; however, no such contributions were made
in 2005, 2004 or 2003.  

   13. Reorganization   

  In June 2005, the
Company announced its plans to close its Fremont office and consolidate most of
its operations in Solon, Ohio, where the Company already had a local sales
office and a manufacturing facility. The relocation resulted in a restructuring
charge of approximately $3.5 million for severance payments, redundancy, lease
and inventory write-offs. The Company recognized a $3,120,000 restructuring
charge in the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company expects the total
restructuring charge to be near expected levels, with the balance of the
expense being incurred in 2006. It is expected that the cost savings from the
restructuring will be between $1.5 million and $2 million on an annual basis,
with the   

F-  24     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

13. Reorganization 
(Continued)   

  savings
beginning in Q3 of 2006. These savings will be reflected largely in reduced
cost of sales with a lesser amount in operating expenses. These savings may be
offset by expense increases as a result of building production capacity and
increasing expenses for the development, sales and marketing of new products,
primarily EFO.  

   14. Related Party
Transactions   

  The Company entered into a consulting agreement with
Jeffrey H. Brite, a member of its Board of Directors, effective date of
November 1, 2004. As a consultant under this agreement, Mr. Brite is to assist
Fiberstars, Inc. s President and Vice President of Sales in identifying,
contacting and making introductions to key building project personnel in a
position to facilitate the purchase of Fiberstars, Inc. products. In return,
Fiberstars, Inc. is to compensate Mr. Brite with the award of an option for the
acquisition of up to 40,000 shares of its common stock at a per share exercise
price of $7.23 and with annual aggregate cash payments of $50,000 to be paid in
quarterly installments during each of the years 2005, 2006 and 2007.  

  Gensler Architecture, Design   Planning, P.C., a
New York Professional Corporation ( Gensler ) provides contract services to the
Company in the areas of fixture design and marketing targeted at expanding the
market for the Company s EFO  products. Mr. Jeffrey H. Brite, an employee of
Gensler, is a member of the Company's Board of Directors. The Company entered
into a three year consulting agreement with Gensler, effective December 15,
2004. Gensler has agreed to assist Fiberstars  marketing group with matters of
structure, procedure and practices as they relate to the design, real estate
and procurement communities, and to advise Fiberstars on strategies to enhance
its visibility and image within the design and construction community as a
manufacturer of preferred technology. In return, Fiberstars has agreed to
compensate Gensler with a one-time cash payment of $60,750 for services
delivered in advance of the completion of the negotiation of the Consulting
Agreement, $50,000 annual cash payments to be paid in quarterly installments of
$12,500 in arrears for each of the calendar years 2005, 2006 and 2007, and a
one-time option award to acquire up to 75,000 shares of Fiberstars  common
stock at a per share exercise price of $6.57. For the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company paid Gensler $50,000 and $60,750 for
services performed.  

  On July 1, 2005, David Ruckert, the Company s CEO
resigned as CEO and served as President and Director through September 30, 2005
afterwhich he served as director.  Mr.
Ruckert signed a severance agreement with the Company which was effective July
1, 2005, and which resulted in a payment of $332,076 upon his departure as an
employee, October 1, 2005.  

  On September 19, 2005, the Company entered into a
master services agreement and related ancillary agreements with Advanced
Lighting Technologies, Inc. ( ADLT ). These agreements include development
agreements governing the provision of research and development services by ADLT
to the Company, and by the Company to ADLT, which agreements are subject to
pre-determined cost limitations and the ability of either party to terminate
these agreements for convenience and with proper notice, and under which the
Company expects ADLT to develop new lamps for the Company s energy efficient
lighting system known as EFO , and ADLT expects the Company to adapt the
Company s patented CPC optic technology to certain ADLT products; an equipment
purchase and supply agreement governing the Company s purchase of manufacturing
equipment from ADLT and the supply of support and manufacturing services by
ADLT related to the purchased equipment; a mutual supply agreement   

F-  25     

FIBERSTARS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  December 31, 2005 and 2004   

14. Related
Party Transactions  (Continued)   

  governing the sale and
purchase of the Company s products by ADLT and of ADLT s products by the
Company; and a cross license agreement governing the mutual grant of rights and
licenses between the Company and ADLT for specified uses of intellectual
property. These agreements became effective upon ADLT s sale of certain shares
of the Company s common stock in connection with the completion of the public
offering of the shares of the Company s Common Stock on November 8, 2005,
as described in a registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on September 19, 2005, in which ADLT
participated as a selling shareholder. Purchases from ADLT were $1,478,000,
$562,000 and $657,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003. Purchases in 2005 include
$1,092,000 in capital equipment. Sales to ADLT were $136,000, $280,000 and
$156,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003. Accounts receivable with ADLT were $132,000
and $48,000 at December 31, 2005 and 2004 respectively. Accounts payable
were $33,000 and $114,000 at December 31, 2005 and 2004 respectively.  

  On September 26, 2005, the Company entered into a
sublease agreement with Venture Lighting International, Inc., a subsidiary of
ADLT.  The sublease agreement initially
leases 43,750 square feet of office and manufacturing space to Fiberstars in
Solon, Ohio, with various options to increase the square footage to 79,625 over
the term of the lease, September 26, 2005 to December 31, 2008.  Lease payments for the initial leased
premises are $50,116 per month and increase based on exercising options for
additional square feet and option clauses.  

F-  26  

Item 15 (continued)   

  (a)             (continued) 

  (2)             Financial Statement
Schedules 

  The following Financial Statement Schedule of
Fiberstars, Inc. is filed as part of this Form 10-K included in
Item 15(c) below:  

  Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.  

  All other schedules
are omitted either because they are not applicable or the required information
is shown in the financial statements or the notes thereto.  

  (3)        Exhibits 

  See Item 15 (b) below.  

  Each management contract or compensatory plan or
arrangement required to be filed has been identified.  

  (c)  Exhibits  

Exhibit 
   Number 

Description of Documents   

3(i).1  

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
  the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
  Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
  December 31, 2000).  

3(i).2  

Certificate of
  Determination of Series A Participating Preferred Stock of the
  Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to the
  Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2001).  

3(ii)  

Bylaws of the
  Registrant, as amended (composite copy) (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 3(ii) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for the year ended December 31, 2004).  

3.2  

Bylaws of the Registrant
  as amended effective September 13, 2005 (composite copy)  

3.3  

Certificate of Amendment
  of Bylaws dated April 27, 2005 (incorporated by reference to the
  Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 27,
  2005).  

3.4  

Certificate of Amendment
  of Bylaws dated September 13, 2005 (incorporated by reference from
  Exhibit 3(ii) to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K
  filed September 19, 2005).  

4.1  

Form of Warrant
  issued to the Underwriters in the Company s initial public offering
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 to the Registrant s
  Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (Commission File No. 33-79116-LA)).  

4.2  

Rights Agreement dated
  as of September 20, 2001 between the Registrant and Mellon Investor
  Services (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant s
  Form 8-A filed on September 21, 2001).  

4.3  

Amendment No. 1 to
  Rights Agreement dated as of March 26, 2002, between the Registrant and
  Mellon Investor Services, LLC, as rights agent (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant s Amendment No. 1 to Form 8-A
  filed on April 17, 2002).  

4.4  

Form of Warrant for
  the purchase of shares of Common Stock (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
  for the quarter ended March 31, 2002).  

10.12 

Stock Purchase
  Agreement dated March 21, 1995, among the Registrant, Mitsubishi
  International Corporation and Mitsubishi Corporation (incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
  Form 10-KSB for the year ended December 31, 1994).  

10.13  

Asset Purchase Agreement
  dated as of November 19, 1998, by and among the Registrant,
  Hillgate (4) Limited, Crescent Lighting Limited, Michael Beverly
  Morrison and Corinne Bertrand (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1
  to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 4,
  1998).  

10.14*  

Purchase and Take-over
  Agreement between Frau Claudia Mann, acting for LBM Lichtleit-Fasertechnik
  and Fiberstars Deutschland GmbH, represented by its Managing Director Herr
  Bernhard Mann (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to the
  Registrant s Amended Annual Report on Form 10-KSB/A for the year
  ended December 31, 1998).  

10.15  

Multi-tenant
  Industrial Triple Net Lease last executed December 1, 1998, between the
  Registrant and Catellus Development Corporation (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.36 to the Registrant s Amended Annual Report on Form 10-KSB/A
  for the year ended December 31, 1998).  

10.16  

Asset Purchase Agreement
  dated as of January 14, 2000, among the Registrant and Unison Fiber
  Optic Lighting Systems, LLC (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 7(c) to Advanced Lighting Technologies, Inc. s
  Amendment No. 3 to Schedule 13D filed on March 9, 2000).  

10.17  

Agreement and Plan of
  Reorganization dated April 18, 2000, between the Registrant and Lightly
  Expressed, Ltd. (VA), Lightly Expressed, Ltd. (CA), William Leaman
  and Michael Weber (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
  Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  June 30, 2000).  

10.18*  

Three (3) Year
  Supply Agreement dated November 30, 2000, between the Registrant and
  Mitsubishi International Corporation (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.30 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for the year ended December 31, 2000).  

10.19  

Second Amended and
  Restated Investor Agreement dated January 6, 2004, by and among the
  Registrant, Advanced Lighting Technologies, Inc., ADLT Series 7
  Liquidating Trust and Unison Fiber Optic Lighting Systems, LLC
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to ADLT Series 7
  Liquidating Trust s Schedule 13D filed on January 6, 2004).  

10.20   

Consulting Agreement
  effective as of October 18, 2001, between the Company and John B.
  Stuppin (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to the Registrant s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
  2001).  

10.21  

Loan and Security
  Agreement (Accounts and Inventory) as dated December 7, 2001, between
  Comerica Bank-California, a California banking corporation and the
  Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to the Registrant s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
  2001).  

10.22  

Common Stock and Warrant
  Purchase Agreement, dated March 29, 2002, by and among the Registrant
  and the investors named therein (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
  for the quarter ended March 31, 2002).  

*                       Confidential
treatment has been granted with respect to certain portions of this agreement. 

  **                In accordance with
item 601(b)(32)(ii) of Regulation S-K and SEC Release Nos. 33-8338
and 34-47986, Final Rule: Management s Reports on Internal Control Over
Financial Report and Certification of Disclosure in Exchange Act Periodic
Reports, the certifications furnished in Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 hereto are
deemed to accompany this form 10-K and will not be deemed  filed  for
purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act. Such certifications will not
be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or
the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the Registrant specifically
incorporates it by reference. 

                          Indicates
management contracts or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

  (d)            Financial Statement
Schedules 

SCHEDULE II   

     FIBERSTARS, INC. 
SCHEDULE OF VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS   

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.  

FIBERSTARS, INC.  

Date: March 31,
  2006  

By:  

/s/
  JOHN M. DAVENPORT  

John M. Davenport  

Chief
  Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer)   

In
accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been
signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  

Signature   

Title   

Date   

/s/ JOHN M.
  DAVENPORT  

Chief Executive
  Officer and Director  

March 31, 2006  

John
  M. Davenport  

(Principal Executive Officer)   

/s/ ROBERT A.
  CONNORS  

Chief Financial
  Officer  

March 31, 2006  

Robert
  A. Connors  

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)   

/s/ JOHN B.
  STUPPIN  

Director  

March 31, 2006  

John
  B. Stuppin  

/s/ RONALD
  CASENTINI  

Director  

March 31, 2006  

Ronald
  Casentini  

/s/ JEFFREY
  BRITE  

Director  

March 31, 2006  

Jeffrey
  Brite  

/s/ MICHAEL
  KASPER  

Director  

March 31, 2006  

Michael
  Kasper  

/s/ PAUL VON
  PAUMGARTTEN  

Director  

March 31, 2006  

Paul
  Von Paumgartten  

/s/ PHILIP
  WOLFSON  

Director  

March 31, 2006  

Philip Wolfson  

/s/
  DAVID N. RUCKERT  

Director  

March
  31, 2006  

David N. Ruckert  

Exhibit 
   Number 

Description of Documents   

3(i).1  

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
  the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
  Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
  December 31, 2000).  

3(i).2  

Certificate of
  Determination of Series A Participating Preferred Stock of the
  Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to the
  Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2001).  

3(ii)  

Bylaws of the
  Registrant, as amended (composite copy) (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 3(ii) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for the year ended December 31, 2004).  

3.2  

Bylaws of the Registrant
  as amended effective September 13, 2005 (composite copy)  

3.3  

Certificate of Amendment
  of Bylaws dated April 27, 2005 (incorporated by reference to the
  Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 27,
  2005).  

3.4  

Certificate of Amendment
  of Bylaws dated September 13, 2005 (incorporated by reference from
  Exhibit 3(ii) to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K
  filed September 19, 2005).  

4.1  

Form of Warrant
  issued to the Underwriters in the Company s initial public offering
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 to the Registrant s
  Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (Commission File No. 33-79116-LA)).  

4.2  

Rights Agreement dated
  as of September 20, 2001 between the Registrant and Mellon Investor
  Services (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant s
  Form 8-A filed on September 21, 2001).  

4.3  

Amendment No. 1 to
  Rights Agreement dated as of March 26, 2002, between the Registrant and
  Mellon Investor Services, LLC, as rights agent (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant s Amendment No. 1 to Form 8-A
  filed on April 17, 2002).  

4.4  

Form of Warrant for
  the purchase of shares of Common Stock (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
  for the quarter ended March 31, 2002).  

4.5  

Amendment No. 2 to
  Rights Agreement dated as of June 17, 2003, between the Registrant and
  Mellon Investor Services, LLC, as rights agent (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K
  filed on June 19, 2003).  

4.6  

Amendment No. 3 to
  Rights Agreement dated as of December 8, 2003, between the Registrant
  and Mellon Investor Services, LLC, as rights agent (incorporated by reference
  to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K
  filed on February 10, 2004).  

10.1   

Form of
  Indemnification Agreement for directors and officers of the Registrant
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s
  Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (Commission File No. 33-79116-LA)).  

10.2   

1988 Stock Option Plan, as
  amended, and forms of stock option agreement (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form SB-2
  (Commission File No. 33-79116-LA)).  

10.3   

1994 Stock Option Plan,
  amended as of May 24, 2000, (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-8
  (Commission File No. 333-52042) filed on December 18, 2000).  

10.4   

1994 Employee Stock
  Purchase Plan, amended as of December 7, 2000, (incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant s Registration Statement on
  Form S-8 (Commission File No. 333-52042) filed on
  December 18, 2000).  

10.5  

1994 Directors  Stock
  Option Plan, amended as of May 23, 2001, (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-8
  (Commission File No. 333-68844) filed on August 31, 2001).  

10.6  

Registration
  Rights Agreement dated as of June 27, 1990, between the Registrant and
  certain holders of the Registrant s capital stock, as amended by Amendment
  No. 1 dated as of February 6, 1991 and Amendment No. 2 dated
  as of April 30, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to
  the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (Commission
  File No. 33-79116-LA)).  

10.7  

Amendment No. 3 to
  Registration Rights Agreement to include Warrant shares as Registerable
  Securities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 to the Registrant s
  Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (Commission File No. 33-79116-LA)).  

10.8   

Stock Purchase Agreement
  and related Promissory Note between David N. Ruckert and the Registrant
  dated as of December 9, 1987, as amended (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.14 to the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form SB-2
  (Commission File No. 33-79116-LA)).  

10.9   

Common Stock Purchase
  Warrant dated as of June 27, 1988 issued by the Registrant to Philip
  Wolfson (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant s
  Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (Commission File No. 33-79116-LA)).  

10.10  

Form of Agreement
  between the Registrant and independent sales representatives (incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant s Registration Statement on
  Form SB-2 (Commission File No. 33-79116-LA)).  

10.11*  

Distribution Agreement
  dated March 21, 1995, between the Registrant and Mitsubishi
  International Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to
  the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended
  December 31, 1994).  

10.12  

Stock Purchase Agreement
  dated March 21, 1995, among the Registrant, Mitsubishi International
  Corporation and Mitsubishi Corporation (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB
  for the year ended December 31, 1994).  

10.13  

Asset Purchase Agreement
  dated as of November 19, 1998, by and among the Registrant,
  Hillgate (4) Limited, Crescent Lighting Limited, Michael Beverly
  Morrison and Corinne Bertrand (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1
  to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
  December 4, 1998).  

10.14*  

Purchase and Take-over
  Agreement between Frau Claudia Mann, acting for LBM Lichtleit-Fasertechnik
  and Fiberstars Deutschland GmbH, represented by its Managing Director Herr
  Bernhard Mann (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to the
  Registrant s Amended Annual Report on Form 10-KSB/A for the year
  ended December 31, 1998).  

10.15  

Multi-tenant
  Industrial Triple Net Lease last executed December 1, 1998, between the
  Registrant and Catellus Development Corporation (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.36 to the Registrant s Amended Annual Report on Form 10-KSB/A
  for the year ended December 31, 1998).  

10.16  

Asset Purchase Agreement
  dated as of January 14, 2000, among the Registrant and Unison Fiber
  Optic Lighting Systems, LLC (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 7(c) to Advanced Lighting Technologies, Inc. s
  Amendment No. 3 to Schedule 13D filed on March 9, 2000).  

10.17 

Agreement and Plan of
  Reorganization dated April 18, 2000, between the Registrant and Lightly
  Expressed, Ltd. (VA), Lightly Expressed, Ltd. (CA), William Leaman
  and Michael Weber (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
  Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  June 30, 2000).  

10.18*  

Three (3) Year
  Supply Agreement dated November 30, 2000, between the Registrant and
  Mitsubishi International Corporation (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.30 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for the year ended December 31, 2000).  

10.19  

Second Amended and
  Restated Investor Agreement dated January 6, 2004, by and among the
  Registrant, Advanced Lighting Technologies, Inc., ADLT Series 7
  Liquidating Trust and Unison Fiber Optic Lighting Systems, LLC
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to ADLT Series 7
  Liquidating Trust s Schedule 13D filed on January 6, 2004).  

10.20   

Consulting Agreement
  effective as of October 18, 2001, between the Company and John B.
  Stuppin (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to the Registrant s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
  2001).  

10.21  

Loan and Security
  Agreement (Accounts and Inventory) as dated December 7, 2001, between
  Comerica Bank-California, a California banking corporation and the
  Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to the Registrant s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
  2001).  

10.22  

Common Stock and Warrant
  Purchase Agreement, dated March 29, 2002, by and among the Registrant
  and the investors named therein (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
  for the quarter ended March 31, 2002).  

10.23  

Securities Purchase
  Agreement dated June 17, 2003, by and among the Registrants and the
  investors named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to
  the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 19,
  2003).  

10.24  

Form of Warrant by
  and between the Registrants and each of the investors party to the Securities
  Purchase Agreement dated June 17, 2003 (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K
  filed on June 19, 2003).  

10.25   

Form of
  Indemnification Agreement for officers of the Registrant (incorporated by
  reference to exhibit 10.42 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for the year ended December 31, 2003).  

10.26  

Form of Indemnification
  Agreement for directors of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to
  exhibit 10.44 to the Registrant sAnnual Report on Form 10-K for
  the year ended December 31, 2003).  

10.27  

Production Share
  Agreement dated October 9, 2003, by and among the Registrant, North
  American Production Sharing, Inc. and Industrias Unidas de B.C., S.A. de
  C.V (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.45 to the Registrant s Annual
  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003).  

10.28  

Consulting Agreement effective
  as of November 1, 2004, between the Registrant and Gensler Architecture,
  Design   Planning, P.C. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.28
  to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
  31, 2005)  

10.29   

Consulting Agreement
  effective as of November 1, 2004, between the Registrant and Jeffrey H.
  Brite. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.29 to the Registrant s Annual
  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005)  

*                       Confidential
treatment has been granted with respect to certain portions of this agreement. 

  **                In accordance with
item 601(b)(32)(ii) of Regulation S-K and SEC Release Nos. 33-8338
and 34-47986, Final Rule: Management s Reports on Internal Control Over
Financial Report and Certification of Disclosure in Exchange Act Periodic
Reports, the certifications furnished in Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 hereto are
deemed to accompany this form 10-K and will not be deemed  filed  for
purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act. Such certifications will not
be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or
the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the Registrant specifically
incorporates it by reference. 

                          Indicates
management contracts or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

<EX-3.2>
 2
 a06-3144_1ex3d2.htm
 (I) ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION; (II) BYLAWS

EXHIBIT 3.2    

BYLAWS           OF           FIBERSTARS, INC.                COMPOSITE COPY           Last amendment: September 13, 2005                BYLAWS           OF           FIBERSTARS, INC.   

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

i  

ii  

iii    

BYLAWS           OF           FIBERSTARS, INC.               ARTICLE I         CORPORATE OFFICES         1.1               PRINCIPAL OFFICE         The board of directors shall fix the location of the principal executive office of the corporation at any place within or outside the State of California. If the principal executive office is located outside such state and the corporation has one or more business offices in such state, then the board of directors shall fix and designate a principal business office in the State of California.         1.2               OTHER OFFICES         The board of directors may at any time establish branch or subordinate offices at any place or places where the corporation is qualified to do business.         ARTICLE II         MEETINGS 
OF SHAREHOLDERS         2.1               PLACE OF MEETINGS         Meetings of shareholders shall be held at any place within or outside the State of California designated by the board of directors. In the absence of any such designation, shareholders  meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.          2.2              ANNUAL MEETING         The annual meeting of shareholders shall be held each year on a date and at a time designated by the board of directors. In the absence of such designation, the annual meeting of shareholders shall be held on the first Wednesday of May in each year at 10:00 a.m. However, if such day falls on a legal holiday, then the meet
ing shall be held at the same time and place on the next succeeding full business day. At the meeting, directors shall be elected, and any other proper business may be transacted.  

1  

2.3               SPECIAL MEETING         A special meeting of the shareholders may be called at any time by the board of directors, or by the chairman of the board, or by the president, or by one or more shareholders holding shares in the aggregate entitled to cast not less than ten percent (10%) of the votes at that meeting.         If a special meeting is called by any person or persons other than the board of directors or the president or the chairman of the board, then the request shall be in writing, specifying the time of such meeting and the general nature of the business proposed to be transacted, and shall be delivered personally or sent by registered mail or by telegraphic or other facsimile transmission to the chairman of the board, the president, any vice president or the secretary of the corporation. The officer receiving the request shall cause notice to be promptly given to the shareholders entitled to vote, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.4 and 2.5 of these Bylaws, that a meeting will be held at the time requested by the person or persons calling the meeting, so long as that time is not less than thirty-five (35) nor more than sixty (60) days after the receipt of the request. If the notice is not given with
in twenty (20) days after receipt of the request, then the person or persons requesting the meeting may give the notice. Nothing contained in this paragraph of this Section 2.3 shall be construed as limiting, fixing or affecting the time when a meeting of shareholders called by action of the board of directors may be held.         2.4               NOTICE OF SHAREHOLDERS  MEETINGS         All notices of meetings of shareholders shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 2.5 of these Bylaws not less than ten (10) (or, if sent by third-class mail pursuant to Section 2.5 of these Bylaws, thirty (30)) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting. The notice shall specify the place, date, and hour of the meeting and (i) in the case of a         special meeting, the general nature of the business to be transacted (no business other than that specified in the notice may be transacted) or (ii) in the case of the annual meeting, those matters which the board of directors, at the time of giving the notice, intends to present for action by the shareholders (but subject to the provisions of the nex
t paragraph of this Section 2.4 any proper matter may be presented at the meeting for such action). The notice of any meeting at which directors are to be elected shall include the name of any nominee or nominees who, at the time of the notice, the board intends to present for election.         If action is proposed to be taken at any meeting for approval of (i) a contract or transaction in which a director has a direct or indirect financial interest, pursuant to Section 3.10 of the Corporations Code of California (the  Code ), (ii) an amendment of the articles of incorporation, pursuant to Section 902 of the Code, (iii) a reorganization of the corporation, pursuant to Section 1201 of the Code, (iv) a voluntary dissolution of the corporation, pursuant to Section 1900 o
f the Code, or (v) a distribution in dissolution other than in accordance with the rights of outstanding preferred shares, pursuant to Section 2007 of the Code, then the notice shall also state the general nature of that proposal.  

2  

2.5               MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE; AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE         Written notice of any meeting of shareholders shall be given either (i) personally or (ii) by first-class mail or (iii) by third-class mail but only if the corporation has outstanding shares held of record by five hundred (500) or more persons (determined as provided in Section 605 of the Code) on the record date for the shareholders  meeting, or (iv) by telegraphic or other written communication. Notices no
t personally delivered shall be sent charges prepaid and shall be addressed to the shareholder at the address of that shareholder appearing on the books of the corporation or given by the shareholder to the corporation for the purpose of notice. If no such address appears on the corporation s books or is given, notice shall be deemed to have been given if sent to that shareholder by mail or telegraphic or other written communication to the corporation s principal executive office, or if published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where that office is located. Notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time when delivered personally or deposited in the mail or sent by telegram or other means of written communication.         If any 
notice addressed to a shareholder at the address of that shareholder appearing on the books of the corporation is returned to the corporation by the United States Postal Service marked to indicate that the United States Postal Service is unable to deliver the notice to the shareholder at that address, then all future notices or reports shall be deemed to have been duly given without further mailing if the same shall be available to the shareholder on written demand of the shareholder at the principal executive office of the corporation for a period of one (1) year from the date of the giving of the notice.         An affidavit of the mailing or other means of giving any notice of any shareholders  meeting, executed by the secretary, assistant secretary or a
ny transfer agent of the corporation giving the notice, shall be prima facie evidence of the giving of such notice.         2.6               QUORUM         The presence in person or by proxy of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereat constitutes a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings of shareholders. The sh
areholders present at a duly called or held meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken (other than adjournment) is approved by at least a majority of the shares required to constitute a quorum.         2.7               ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE         Any shareholders  meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present, may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of the majority of the shares represented at that meeting, either in person or by proxy. In the absence of a quorum, no other business may be transacted at that meeting except as provided in Section 2.6 of these Bylaws.         When any meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place are   

3  

announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. However, if a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed or if the adjournment is for more than forty-five (45) days from the date set for the original meeting, then notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given. Notice of any such adjourned meeting shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.4 and 2.5 of these Bylaws. At any adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.         2.8               VOTING         The shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.11 of these Bylaws, subject to the provisions of Sections 702 through 704 of the Code (relating to voting shares held by a fiduciary, in the name of a corporation or in joint ownership).         The shareholders  vote may be by voice vote or
 by ballot; provided, however, that any election for directors must be by ballot if demanded by any shareholder at the meeting and before the voting has begun.         Except as provided in the last paragraph of this Section 2.8, or as may be otherwise provided in the articles of incorporation, each outstanding share, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote of the shareholders. Any shareholder entitled to vote on any matter may vote part of the shares in favor of the proposal and refrain from voting the remaining shares or, except when the matter is the election of directors, may vote them against the proposal; but, if the shareholder fails to specify the number of shares which the shareholder is voting affirmatively
, it will be conclusively presumed that the shareholder s approving vote is with respect to all shares which the shareholder is entitled to vote.         If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of the majority of the shares represented and voting at a duly held meeting (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute at least a majority of the required quorum) shall be the act of the shareholders, unless the vote of a greater number or a vote by classes is required by the Code or by the articles of incorporation.         At a shareholders  meeting at which directors are to be elected, a shareholder shall be entitled to cumulate votes (i.e., cast for any candidate a number of votes greater than the number of votes which such shareholder normally is entitled to cast) if the candidates  names have been placed in nomination prior to commencement of the voting and the shareholder has given notice prior to commencement of the voting of the shareholder s intention to cumulate votes. If any shareholder has given such a notice, then every shareholder entitled to vote may cumulate votes for candidates in nomination either (i) by giving one candidate a number of votes equal to the number of directors to be elected multiplied by the number of votes to which that shareholder s shares are normally entitled or (ii) by distributing the shareholder s votes on the same principle among any or all of the candidates, as the shareholder thinks fit. The candidates receiving the highest number of affirmati
ve votes, up to the number of directors to be elected, shall be elected; votes against any candidate and votes withheld shall have no legal effect.  

4  

2.9               VALIDATION OF MEETINGS; WAIVER OF NOTICE; CONSENT         The transactions of any meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, however called and noticed, and wherever held, shall be as valid as though they had been taken at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present either in person or by proxy, and if, either before or after the meeting, each person entitled to vote, who was not present in person or by proxy, signs a written w
aiver of notice or a consent to the holding of the meeting or an approval of the minutes thereof. The waiver of notice or consent or approval need not specify either the business to be transacted or the purpose of any annual or special meeting of shareholders, except that if action is taken or proposed to be taken for approval of any of those matters specified in the second paragraph of Section 2.4 of these Bylaws, the waiver of notice or consent or approval shall state the general nature of the proposal. All such waivers, consents, and approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.         Attendance by a person at a meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice of and presence at that meeting, except when t
he person objects at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Attendance at a meeting is not a waiver of any right to object to the consideration of matters required by the Code to be included in the notice of the meeting but not so included, if that objection is expressly made at the meeting.         2.10             SHAREHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING         No action shall be taken by the shareholders of the corporation other than at an annual or special meeting of the shareholders, upon due notice and in accordance with the other provisions of these Bylaws.         2.11             RECORD DATE FOR SHAREHOLDER NOTICE; VOTING; GIVING CONSENTS         For purposes of determining the shareholders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote thereat or entitled to give consent to corporate action without a meeting, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before the date of any such meeting nor more than sixty (60) days before any such action without a meeting, and in such event only shareholders of record on the date so fixed are entitled to notice and to vote or to give consents, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date, except as otherwise provided in the Code.         If the board of directors does not so
 fix a record date:         (a)               the record date for determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be at the close of business on the business day next preceding the   

5  

day on which notice is given or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and         (b) the record date for determining shareholders entitled to give consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, (i) when no prior action by the board has been taken, shall be the day on which the first written consent is given, or (ii) when prior action by the board has been taken, shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board adopts the resolution relating to that action, or the sixtieth (60th) day before the date of such other action, whichever is later.         The record date for any other purpose shall be as provided in Article VIII of these Bylaws.         2.12             PROXIES         Every person entitled to vote for directors, or on any other matter, shall have the right to do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by a written proxy signed by the person and filed with the secretary of the corporation. A proxy shall be deemed signed if the shareholder s name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission or otherwise) by the shareholder or the shareholder s attorney-in-fact. A validly executed proxy which does not state that it is irrevocable shall continue in full force and effect unless (i) the person who executed the proxy revokes it prior to the time of voting by delivering a writing to the corporation stating that the proxy is revoked or by executing a subsequent proxy and presenting it to the meeting or by voting in person at the meeting, or (ii) written notice of the death or incapacity of the maker of that proxy is received by the corporation before the vote pursuant to that proxy is counted; prov
ided, however, that no proxy shall be valid after the expiration of eleven (11) months from the date of the proxy, unless otherwise provided in the proxy. The dates contained on the forms of proxy presumptively determine the order of execution, regardless of the postmark dates on the envelopes in which they are mailed. The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of Sections 705(e) and 705(f) of the Code.         2.13             INSPECTORS OF ELECTION         Before any meeting of shareholders, the board of directors may appoint an inspector or inspectors of election to act at the meeting or its adjournment. If no inspector of election is so appointed, then the chairman of the meeting may, and on the request of any shareholder or a shareholder s proxy shall, appoint an inspector or inspectors of election to act at the meeting. The number of inspectors shall be either one (1) or three (3). If inspectors are appointed at a meeting pursuant to the request of one (1) or more shareholders or proxies, then the holders of a majority of shares or their proxies present at the meeting shall determine whether one (1) or three (3) inspectors are to be appointed. If any person appointed as inspector fails to appear or fails or refuses to act, then the chairman of the meeting may, and upon the request of any shareholder or
 a shareholder s proxy shall, appoint a person to fill that vacancy.  

6  

Such inspectors shall:         (a) determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the number of shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the authenticity, validity, and effect of proxies;         (b) receive votes, ballots or consents;         (c) hear and determine all challenges and questions in any way arising in connection with the right to vote;         (d) count and tabulate all votes or consents;         (e) determine when the polls shall close;         (f) determine the result; and         (g) do any other acts that may be proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all shareholders.         ARTICLE III         D
IRECTORS         3.1               POWERS         Subject to the provisions of the Code and any limitations in the articles of incorporation and these Bylaws relating to actions required to be approved by the shareholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exer
cised by or under the direction of the board of directors.         3.2               NUMBER OF DIRECTORS         The number of directors of the corporation shall not be less than five (5) nor more than nine (9). The exact number of directors shall be eight (8) until changed, within the limits specified above, by a bylaw amending this Section 3.2, dul
y adopted by the board of directors or by the shareholders. The indefinite number of directors may be changed, or a definite number may be fixed without provision for an indefinite number, by a duly adopted amendment to the articles of incorporation or by an amendment to this bylaw duly adopted by the vote or written consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote; provided, however that an amendment reducing the fixed number or the minimum number of directors to a number less than five (5) cannot be adopted if the votes cast against its adoption at a meeting, or the shares not consenting in the case of an action by written consent, are equal to more than sixteen and two-thirds percent (16-2/3%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. No amendment  

7  

may change the stated maximum number of authorized directors to a number greater than two (2) times the stated minimum number of directors minus one (1).         No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director before that director s term of office expires.         3.3    
           ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE OF DIRECTORS         Directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of shareholders to hold office until the next annual meeting. Each director, including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until a successor has been elected and qualified.         3.4               RESIGNATION AND VACANCIES         Any director may resign effective on giving written notice to the chairman of the board, the president, the secretary or the board of directors, unless the notice specifies a later time for that resignation to become effective. If the resignation of a director is effective at a future time, the board of directors may elect a successor to take office when the resignation becomes effective.         Vacancies in the board of directors may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director; however, a vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote or written consent of the shareholders or by court order may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute a majority of the required quorum), or by the unanimous written consent of all shares entitled to vote thereon. Each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the shareholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified.         A vacancy o
r vacancies in the board of directors shall be deemed to exist (i) in the event of the death, resignation or removal of any director, (ii) if the board of directors by resolution declares vacant the office of a director who has been declared of unsound mind by an order of court or convicted of a felony, (iii) if the authorized number of directors is increased, or (iv) if the shareholders fail, at any meeting of shareholders at which any director or directors are elected, to elect the number of directors to be elected at that meeting.         The shareholders may elect a director or directors at any time to fill any vacancy or vacancies not filled by the directors, but any such election other than to fill a vacancy created by removal, if by written consent, shall
 require the consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon.         3.5               PLACE OF MEETINGS; 9 MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE         Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held at any place within or outside the State of California that has been designated from time to time by resolution of the
 board. In   

8  

the absence of such a designation, regular meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation. Special meetings of the board may be held at any place within or outside the State of California that has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated in the notice or if there is no notice, at the principal executive office of the corporation.         Any meeting, regular or special, may be held by conference telephone or similar communication equipment, so long as all directors participating in the meeting can hear one another; and all such directors shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.         3.6               REGULAR MEETINGS         Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held without notice if the times of such meetings are fixed by the board of directors.         3.7               SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE         Special meetings of the board of directors for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the chairman of the board, the president, any vice president, the secretary or any two directors.         Notice of the time and
 place of special meetings shall be delivered personally or by telephone to each director or sent by first-class mail or telegram, charges prepaid, addressed to each director at that director s address as it is shown on the records of the corporation. If the notice is mailed, it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least four (4) days before the time of the holding of the meeting. If the notice is delivered personally or by telephone or telegram, it shall be delivered personally or by telephone or to the telegraph company at least forty-eight (48) hours before the time of the holding of the meeting. Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director. The notice need not specify the purpose or the place of the meeting, if the meeting is to be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.  
       3.8               QUORUM         A majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except to adjourn as provided in Section 3.10 of these Bylaws. Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the directors present at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present shall be regarded as the act of the board
 of directors, subject to the provisions of Section 3.10 of the Code (as to approval of contracts or transactions in which a director has a direct or indirect material financial interest), Section 311 of the Code (as to appointment of committees), Section 317(e) of the Code (as to indemnification of directors), the articles of incorporation, and other applicable law.         A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for that meeting.  

9  

3.9               WAIVER OF NOTICE         Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director (i) who signs a waiver of notice or a consent to holding the meeting or an approval of the minutes thereof, whether before or after the meeting, or (ii) who attends the meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such director. All such waivers, consents, and approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made part of the minutes of the
 meeting. A waiver of notice need not specify the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the board of directors.         3.10             ADJOURNMENT         A majority of the directors present, whether or not constituting a quorum, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place.         3.11             NOTICE OF ADJOURNMENT         Notice of the time and place of holding an adjourned meeting need not be given unless the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours. If the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours, then notice of the time and place of the adjourned meeting shall be given before the adjourned meeting takes place, in the manner specified in Section 3.7 of these 
Bylaws, to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment.         3.12             BOARD ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING         Any action required or permitted to be taken by the board of directors may be taken without a meeting, provided that all members of the board individually or collectively consent in writing to that act
ion. Such action by written consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of the board of directors. Such written consent and any counterparts thereof shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the board.         3.13             FEES AND COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS          Directors and members of committees may receive such compe
nsation, if any, for their services and such reimbursement of expenses as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the board of directors. This Section 3.13 shall not be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee or otherwise and receiving compensation for those services.         3.14             APPROVAL OF LOANS TO OFFICERS         The corporation may, upon the approval of the board of directors alone, make loans of money or property to, or guarantee the obligations of, any officer of the corporation or its parent or subsidiary, whether or not a director, or adopt an employee benefit plan or plans authorizing such loans or guaranties provided that (i) the board of directors determines that such a loan or guaranty or plan may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation, (ii) the corporation has   

10  

outstanding shares held of record by 100 or more persons (determined as provided in Section 605 of the Code) on the date of approval by the board of directors, and (iii) the approval of the board of directors is by a vote sufficient without counting the vote of any interested director or directors.         ARTICLE IV         COMMITTEES         4.1               COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS         The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the authorized number of directors, designate one (1) or more committees, each consisting of two or more directors, to serve at the pleasure of the board. The board may designate one (1) or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent member at any meeting of the committ
ee. The appointment of members or alternate members of a committee requires the vote of a majority of the authorized number of directors. Any committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board, shall have all the authority of the board, except with respect to:         (a) the approval of any action which, under the Code, also requires shareholders  approval or approval of the outstanding shares;         (b) the filling of vacancies on the board of directors or in any committee;         (c) the fixing of compensation of the directors for serving on the board or any committee;         (d) the amendment or repeal of these Bylaws or the adoption of new Bylaws;         (e) the amendment or repeal of any resolution of the board of directors which by its express terms 
is not so amendable or repealable;         (f) a distribution to the shareholders of the corporation, except at a rate or in a periodic amount or within a price range determined by the board of directors; or (g) the appointment of any other committees of the board of directors or the members of such committees.         4.2               MEETINGS AND 
ACTION OF COMMITTEES         Meetings and actions of committees shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the provisions of Article III of these Bylaws, Section 3.5 (place of meetings), Section 3.6 (regular meetings), Section 3.7 (special meetings and notice), Section 3.8 (quorum), Section 3.9 (waiver of notice), Section 3.10 (adjournment), Section 3.11 (notice of adjournment), and Section 3.12 (action without meeting), with such changes in the context of those Bylaws as are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the board of directors and its members; provided, however, that the time of regular meetings of committees may be   

11  

determined either by resolution of the board of directors or by resolution of the committee, that special meetings of committees may also be called by resolution of the board of directors, and that notice of special meetings of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend all meetings of the committee. The board of directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these Bylaws.         ARTICLE V         OFFICERS         5.1               OFFICERS         The officers of the corporation shall be a president, a secretary, and a chief financial officer. The corporation may also have, at the discretion of the board of directors, a chairman of the board, one or more vice presidents, o
ne or more assistant secretaries, one or more assistant treasurers, and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 of these Bylaws. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.         5.2               ELECTION OF OFFICERS         The officers of the corporation, except such officers as may be a
ppointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 or Section 5.5 of these Bylaws, shall be chosen by the board, subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment. Any contract of employment with an officer shall be unenforceable unless in writing and specifically authorized by the board of directors.         5.3               SUBORDINATE OFFICERS         The board of directors may appoint, or may empower the president to appoint, such other officers as the business of the corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority, and perform such duties as are provided in these Bylaws or as the board of directors may from time to time determine.         5.4               REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS         Subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment, any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the board of directors at any regular or special meeting of the board or, except in case of an officer chosen by the board of directors, by any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the board of directors.         Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the corporation. Any resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice; and, unless otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessa
ry to make it effective. Any resignation is without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract to which the officer is a party.  

12  

5.5               VACANCIES IN OFFICES         A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed in these Bylaws for regular appointments to that office.         5.6               CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD         If the Board of Directors appoints a Chairman of the Board, such Chairman shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the shareholders and the Board of Directors. The Chairman shall otherwise perform such duties and possess such powers, if any, as may be vested in the Chairman by the Board of Directors.         5.7               PRESIDENT         Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the board of directors to the chairman of the board, if there be such an officer, the president shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall, subject to the control of the board of directors, have general supervision, direction, and control of the business and the officers of the corporation. He shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and, in the absence or nonexistence of a chairman of the board, at all meetings of the board of directors.
 He shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president of a corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these Bylaws.         5.8               VICE PRESIDENTS         In the absence or disability of the president, the vice presidents, if any,
 in order of their rank as fixed by the board of directors or, if not ranked, a vice president designated by the board of directors, shall perform all the duties of the president and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the president. The vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the board of directors, these Bylaws, the president or the chairman of the board.         5.9               SECRETARY         The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or such other place as the board of directors may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of directors, committees of directors and shareholders. The minutes shall show the time and place of each meeting, whether regular or special (and, if special, how authorized and the notice given), the names of those present at directors  meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at shareholders  meetings, and the proceedings thereof.  

13  

The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or at the office of the corporation s transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all shareholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates evidencing such shares, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.         The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the shareholders and of the board of dire
ctors required to be given by law or by these Bylaws. He shall keep the seal of the corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by these Bylaws.         5.10             CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER         The chief financial officer shall keep and 
maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings, and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director.         The chief financial officer shall deposit all money and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositories as may be designated by the board of directors. He shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the board of directors, shall render to the president and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his transa
ctions as chief financial officer and of the financial condition of the corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these Bylaws.         ARTICLE VI         INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND OTHER AGENTS         6.1               INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS         The corporation shall, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the Code, indemnify each of its directors and officers against expenses (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), judgments, fines, settlements, and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), arising by reason of the fact that such person is or was an agent of the corporation. For purposes of this Article VI, a  directo
r  or  officer  of the corporation includes any person (i) who is or was a director or officer of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was a director or officer of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.  

14  

6.2               INDEMNIFICATION OF OTHERS         The corporation shall have the power, to the extent and in the manner permitted by the Code, to indemnify each of its employees and agents (other than directors and officers) against expenses (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), judgments, fines, settlements, and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding (as defined in Section 317(a) of the Code), arising by reason of the fact that such
 person is or was an agent of the corporation. For purposes of this Article VI, an  employee  or  agent  of the corporation (other than a director or officer) includes any person (i) who is or was an employee or agent of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was an employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.         6.3               PAYMENT OF EXPENSES IN ADVANCE         Expenses incurred in defending any civil or criminal action or proceeding for which indemnification is required pursuant to Section 6.1 or for which indemnification is permitted pursuant to Section 6.2 following authorization thereof by the Board of Directors shall be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the indemnified party to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that the indemnified party is not entitled to be indemnified as authorized in this Article VI.         6.4               INDEMNITY NOT EXCLUSIVE         The indemnification provided by this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification may be entitled under any bylaw, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in an official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, to the extent that such additional rights to indemnification are au
thorized in the articles of incorporation.         6.5               INSURANCE INDEMNIFICATION         The corporation shall have the power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation against any liability asserted against or incurred by such person in such capacit
y or arising out of such person s status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article VI.         6.6               CONFLICTS         No indemnification or advance shall be made under this Article VI, except where such indemnification or advance is manda
ted by law or the order, judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, in any circumstance where it appears:  

15  

(i)                That it would be inconsistent with a provision of the articles of incorporation, these Bylaws, a resolution of the shareholders or an agreement in effect at the time of the accrual of the alleged cause of the action asserted in the proceeding in which the expenses were incurred or other amounts were paid, which prohibits or otherwise limits indemnification; or         (ii)               That it would be inconsistent with any condition expressly imposed by a court in approving a settlement.         ARTICLE VII         RECORDS AND REPORTS         7.1               MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF SHARE REGISTER         The corporation shall keep either at its principal executive office or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar (if either be appointed), as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a record of its shareholders listing the names and addresses of all shareholders and the number and class of shares held by each shareholder.         A shareholder or shareholders of the corporation who holds at least five percent (5%) in the aggregate of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation or who holds at least one percent (1%) of such voting shares and has filed a Schedule 14B with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the election of directors, may (i) inspect and copy the records of shareholders  names, addresses, and shareholdings during usual business hours on five (5) days  prior written demand on the corporation, (ii) obtain from the transfer agent of the corporation, on written demand and on the tender of such transfer agent s usual charges for such list, a list of the names and addresses of the shareholders who are entitled to vote for the election of directors, and their shareholdings, as of the most recent record date for which that list has been compiled or as of a date specified by the shareholder after the date of demand. Such list shal
l be made available to any such shareholder by the transfer agent on or before the later of five (5) days after the demand is received or five (5) days after the date specified in the demand as the date as of which the list is to be compiled.         The record of shareholders shall also be open to inspection on the written demand of any shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate, at any time during usual business hours, for a purpose reasonably related to the holder s interests as a shareholder or as the holder of a voting trust certificate.         Any inspection and copying under this Section 7.1 may be made in person or by an agent or attorney of the shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate making the demand.  

16  

7.2               MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF BYLAWS         The corporation shall keep at its principal executive office or, if its principal executive office is not in the State of California, at its principal business office in California the original or a copy of these Bylaws as amended to date, which Bylaws shall be open to inspection by the shareholders at all reasonable times during office hours. If the principal executive office of the corporation is outside the State of C
alifornia and the corporation has no principal business office in such state, then the secretary shall, upon the written request of any shareholder, furnish to that shareholder a copy of these Bylaws as amended to date.         7.3               MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF OTHER CORPORATE RECORDS         The accounting books and records and the mi
nutes of proceedings of the shareholders, of the board of directors, and of any committee or committees of the board of directors shall be kept at such place or places as are designated by the board of directors or, in absence of such designation, at the principal executive office of the corporation. The minutes shall be kept in written form, and the accounting books and records shall be kept either in written form or in any other form capable of being converted into written form.         The minutes and accounting books and records shall be open to inspection upon the written demand of any shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate, at any reasonable time during usual business hours, for a purpose reasonably related to the holder s interests as a 
shareholder or as the holder of a voting trust certificate. The inspection may be made in person or by an agent or attorney and shall include the right to copy and make extracts. Such rights of inspection shall extend to the records of each subsidiary corporation of the corporation.         7.4               INSPECTION BY DIRECTORS         Every dire
ctor shall have the absolute right at any reasonable time to inspect all books, records, and documents of every kind as well as the physical properties of the corporation and each of its subsidiary corporations. Such inspection by a director may be made in person or by an agent or attorney. The right of inspection includes the right to copy and make extracts of documents.         7.5               ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS; WAIVER         The board of directors shall cause an annual report to be sent to the shareholders not later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of the fiscal year adopted by the corporation. Such report shall be sent at least fifteen (15) days (or, if sent by third-class mail, thirty-five (35) days) before the annual meeting of shareholders to be held during the next fiscal year and in the manner specified in Section 2.5 of these Bylaws for giving notice to shareholders of the corporation.         The annual report shall contain (i) a balance sheet as of the end of the fiscal year, (ii) an income statement, (iii) a statement of changes in financial position for the fis
cal year, and (iv)   

17  

any report of independent accountants or, if there is no such report, the certificate of an authorized officer of the corporation that the statements were prepared without audit from the books and records of the corporation.          The foregoing requirement of an annual report shall be waived so long as the shares of the corporation are held by fewer than one hundred (100) holders of record.         
7.6               FINANCIAL STATEMENTS         If no annual report for the fiscal year has been sent to shareholders, then the corporation shall, upon the written request of any shareholder made more than one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of such fiscal year, deliver or mail to the person making the request, within thirty (30) days thereafter, a copy of a balance sheet as of the end of such fiscal year and an income statement and statement of changes in financial position for such fiscal year.         If a shareholder or shareholders holding at least five percent (5%) of the outstanding shares of any class of stock of the corporation makes a written request to the corporation for an income statement of the corporation for the three-month, six-month or nine-month period of the then current fiscal year ended more than thirty (30) days before the date of the request, and for a balance sheet of the corporation as of the end of that period, then the chief financial officer shall cause that statement to be prepared, if not already prepared, and shall deliver personally or mail that statement or statements to the person making the request within thirty (30) days after the receipt of the request. If the corporation has not sent to the shareholders its annual report for the last fiscal year, the statements referred to in the first paragraph of this Section 7.6 shall 
likewise be delivered or mailed to the shareholder or shareholders within thirty (30) days after the request.         The quarterly income statements and balance sheets referred to in this section shall be accompanied by the report, if any, of any independent accountants engaged by the corporation or by the certificate of an authorized officer of the corporation that the financial statements were prepared without audit from the books and records of the corporation.         7.7               REPRESENTATION OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS         The chairman of the board, the president, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the secretary or assistant secretary of this corporation, or any other person authorized by the board of directors or the president or a vice president, is authorized to vote, represent, and exercise on behalf of this corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of this corporation. The authority herein granted may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by prox
y or power of attorney duly executed by such person having the authority.  

18  

ARTICLE VIII         GENERAL MATTERS         8.1               RECORD DATE FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN NOTICE AND VOTING         For purposes of determining the shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the shareholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other lawful action (other than action by shareholders by written consent without a meeting), the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days before any such action. In that case, only shareholders of record at the close of business on the date so fixed are entitled to receive the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after the record date so fixed, except as otherwise provided in the Code.         If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, then the record date for determining shareholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board adopts the applicable resolution or the sixtieth (60th) day before the date of that action, whichever is later.         8.2               CHECKS; DRAFTS; EVIDENCES OF INDEBTEDNESS         From time to time, the board of directors shall determine by resolution which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in the name of or payable to the corporation, and only the persons so authorized shall sign or endorse those instruments.         8.3               CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND INSTRUMENTS; HOW EXEC
UTED         The board of directors, except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation; such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized or ratified by the board of directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.         8.4               CERTIFICATES FOR SHARES         A certificate or certificates for shares of the corporation shall be issued to each shareholder when any of such shares are fully paid. The board of directors may authorize the issuance of certificates for shares partly paid provided that these certificates shall state the total amount of the consideration to be paid for them and the amount actually paid. All certificates   

19  

shall be signed in the name of the corporation by the chairman of the board or the vice chairman of the board or the president or a vice president and by the chief financial officer or an assistant treasurer or the secretary or an assistant secretary, certifying the number of shares and the class or series of shares owned by the shareholder. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimile.         In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed on a certificate ceases to be that officer, transfer agent or registrar before that certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation wit
h the same effect as if that person were an officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.         8.5               LOST CERTIFICATES         Except as provided in this Section 8.5, no new certificates for shares shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the corporation and canceled at
 the same time. The board of directors may, in case any share certificate or certificate for any other security is lost, stolen or destroyed, authorize the issuance of replacement certificates on such terms and conditions as the board may require; the board may require indemnification of the corporation secured by a bond or other adequate security sufficient to protect the corporation against any claim that may be made against it, including any expense or liability, on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of the certificate or the issuance of the replacement certificate.         8.6               CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS         Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the Code shall govern the construction of these Bylaws. Without limiting the generality of this provision, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term  person  includes both a corporation and a natural person.         ARTICLE IX         AMENDMENTS         9.1               AMENDMENT BY SHAREHOLDERS         New Bylaws may be adopted or these Bylaws may be amended or repealed by the vote or written cons
ent of holders of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote; provided, however, that if the articles of incorporation of the corporation set forth the number of authorized directors of the corporation, then the authorized number of directors may be changed only by an amendment of the articles of incorporation.         9.2               AMENDMENT BY DIRECTORS         Subject to the rights of the shareholders as provided in Section 9.1 of these Bylaws, Bylaws, other than a bylaw or an amendment of a bylaw changing the authorized number of   

20  

directors (except to fix the authorized number of directors pursuant to a bylaw providing for a variable number of directors), may be adopted, amended or repealed by the board of directors.  

21  

</EX-3.2>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 a06-3144_1ex21d1.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EXHIBIT 21.1   

     SIGNIFICANT
SUBSIDIARIES   

Name 

Location   

Doing business as   

Crescent
  Lighting, Ltd  

Thatcham,
  Berkshire, UK  

Crescent
  Lighting  

Lichtberatung
  Mann Gmbh  

Berching,
  Germany  

LBM  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 a06-3144_1ex23d1.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

EXHIBIT 23.1   

     CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM   

  We have issued our report
dated March 10, 2006, accompanying the consolidated financial statements
and schedules included in the Annual Report of Fiberstars, Inc. on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2005.  We hereby consent to the incorporation by
reference of said report in the Registration Statements of Fiberstars, Inc.
on Forms S-8 (File No. 333-122686, effective February 10,
2005; File No. 333-68844, effective August 31, 2001; File No. 333-52042,
effective December 18, 2000; File No. 333-61855, effective August 19,
1998; File No. 333-28423, effective June 4, 1997; and File No. 33-85664,
effective October 27, 1994).  

  /s/ Grant Thornton LLP  

  San Francisco, California 
March 10, 2006  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 a06-3144_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.1   

     CERTIFICATION   

  I,  John M. Davenport, certify that: 

  1.     I have reviewed this annual
report on Form 10-K of Fiberstars, Inc.;  

  2.     Based on my knowledge, this
report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;  

  3.     Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;  

  4.     The registrant s other
certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:  

  a)     Designed such disclosure
controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to
be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
annual report is being prepared;  

  b)     Evaluated the effectiveness
of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and  

  c)     Disclosed in this report any
change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5.     The registrant s other
certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):  

  a)     All significant deficiencies
and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and  

  b)     Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 31, 2006 

By:  

/s/ JOHN M. DAVENPORT  

John M. Davenport  

Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 a06-3144_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.2   

     CERTIFICATION   

  I,  Robert A. Connors, certify that: 

  1.     I have reviewed this annual
report on Form 10-K of Fiberstars, Inc.;  

  2.     Based on my knowledge, this
report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report;  

  3.     Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this report,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;  

  4.     The registrant s other
certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:  

  a)     Designed such disclosure
controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to
be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
annual report is being prepared;  

  b)     Evaluated the effectiveness
of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and  

  c)     Disclosed in this report any
change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5.     The registrant s other
certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing
the equivalent functions):  

  a)     All significant deficiencies
and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and  

  b)     Any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 31, 2006 

By:  

/s/ ROBERT A. CONNORS  

Robert A. Connors  

Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 a06-3144_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.1   

     STATEMENT OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER UNDER 18 UNITED
STATES C.   1350   

   I,    John M. Davenport, the chief executive officer of Fiberstars, Inc.
(the  Company ), certify for the purposes of section 1350 of
chapter 63 of title 18 of the United States Code that, to the best of
my knowledge, 

  (i)    the Annual Report of the
Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 (the  Report ),
fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, and  

  (ii)   the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results
of operations of the Company.  

A signed original of this written statement required by
Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the
Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 a06-3144_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.2   

     STATEMENT OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER UNDER 18 UNITED
STATES C.   1350   

   I,  Robert A. Connors , the chief
financial officer of Fiberstars, Inc. (the  Company ), certify for the
purposes of section 1350 of chapter 63 of title 18 of the United States Code
that, to the best of my knowledge, 

  (i)    the Annual Report of the
Company on Form 10-K/10-Q for the year ended December 31,
2005 (the  Report ), fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and  

  (ii)   the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results
of operations of the Company.  

A signed original of this written statement required by
Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the
Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

