<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_914537_0000950144-06-003065_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>702001</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>186790</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>325909</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>46</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>3</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950144-06-003065.hdr.sgml : 20060418
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331174737
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950144-06-003065
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		4
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060418

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BRAZIL FAST FOOD CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000914537
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-EATING PLACES [5812]
		IRS NUMBER:				133688737
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-23278
		FILM NUMBER:		06730482

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		RUA VOLUNTARIOS DA PATRIA 89 - 9 ANDAR
		STREET 2:		BOTAFOGO
		CITY:			RIO DE JANEIRO
		STATE:			D5
		ZIP:			22270010
		BUSINESS PHONE:		552125367500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		RUA VOLUNTARIOS DA PATRIA 89 - 9 ANDAR
		STREET 2:		BOTAFOGO
		CITY:			RIO DE JANEIRO
		STATE:			D5
		ZIP:			22270010

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TRINITY AMERICAS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19931108

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GRkl1Qv1k5FOl9cpJN5m0Z1c0GgJ9kqXew6Wr9xGjGoiLPyDDJytNhaZlU/UvySH
 yIslq2/rpAHln4eZkf43lA==

 0000950144-06-003065.txt : 20060418

10-K
 1
 g00198e10vk.htm
 BRAZIL FAST FOOD CORP

Brazil Fast Food Corp 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 

OR 

Commission file number: 0000-23278 

BRAZIL FAST FOOD CORP. 

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware 

13-3688737  

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer 

incorporation or organization)

Identification No.) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 55 21 2536-7500

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
NONE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common stock, par value $.0001 per share (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act.

Yes              No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

Yes              No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes              No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.           Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer               Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes              No   

As of June 30, 2005, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was $2,627,820.80, computed by reference to the average bid and
asked price of such common stock.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common stock, as
of the latest practicable date.

Documents Incorporated By Reference 

Portions of the Registrant s definitive proxy statement for its 2006 annual meeting of
Shareholders, which proxy statement will be filed no later than 120 days after the close of the
Registrant s fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, are hereby incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PART I  

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

1 

ITEM 1A.

RISK FACTORS

9 

ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

15 

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

15 

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

16 

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

17 

PART II  

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

18 

ITEM 6.

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA

20 

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

21 

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE INFORMATION ABOUT MARKET RISK

36 

ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

37 

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

37 

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

37 

ITEM 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION

38 

PART III  

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

39 

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

39 

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND 
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

39 

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

39 

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

39 

PART IV  

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS
ON FORM 8   K

40 

i 

Table of Contents   

Unless otherwise specified, all references in this report to  Reais,  the  Real  or  R$  are to the
Brazilian Real (singular), or to the Brazilian Reais (plural), the legal currency of Brazil, and
 U.S. Dollars  or  $  are to United States Dollars. Unless otherwise specified, all financial
statements and other financial information presented herein are stated in R$ and are in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP). 

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

(a) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Brazil Fast Food Corp., through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Venbo Com rcio de Alimentos
Ltda., a Brazilian limited liability company that conducts business under the trade name  Bob s ,
owns and operates, directly and through franchisees, the second largest fast food hamburger
restaurant chain in Brazil. As of December 31, 2005, we had 451 points of sale, including 143
kiosks and trailers.

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1992. Our executive offices are located at Rua Volunt rios
da P tria, 89 - 9  andar, Botafogo, cep 22.270-010, Rio de Janeiro   RJ, Brazil. Our telephone
number is  5521 2536-7500.

The audit opinions of our independent registered public accounting firms contained elsewhere
in this report contain qualifications that, due to our contingencies, our recurring losses from
operations and our negative working capital position, there is substantial doubt as to our ability
to continue as a going concern. See  Risk Factors   Risk Relating to Operations  and  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  for a further discussion
of these factors.

Recent Developments 

In 2005, Brazil has endured the worst political scandal in fifteen years. In June, a former
government ally accused some senior figures in the government and the ruling Workers  Party (PT) of
massive payola. People were astonished not only by the poisoned super-structure created by the
Workers  Party (PT) to finance its political campaigns and buy its allies  loyalty; as for that,
political corruption is recurring in daily news, but also by the conduct of a political party that
for many years boasted its ethical posture.

Two separate congressional panels were formed in order to investigate the scam, resulting in a
political paralysis in both the Lower House and the Senate. At first, Luiz In cio Lula da Silva,
Brazil s president, was spared by the accuser, but his attitude of constant detachment from the
crises enraged his opponents and amplified accusations of misconduct. Many telephone calls and
financial transactions were scrutinized by the panels, what enervated the president s party and the
government congressional base, raised doubts about his capacity to govern and initiated discussions
of a possible impeachment.

Political uncertainty diminished consumers  confidence and shrunk investments, halting
economic growth to a mere 2.3% increase in Brazil GDP. Although Lula s second term in October 2006
seems at stake due to people s disappointment with the president and his Workers  Party, the
government has been increasing its expenditures in 2006, will continue to cut interest rates and is
prone to approve some investments incentives; gathering more votes to keep ruling for another four
years.

(b) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

Table of Contents   

Not applicable.

(c) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Restaurant Operations 

As of December 31, 2005, we had 451 points of sale, including 143 kiosks and trailers, of
which 65 are owned and operated by us and the remaining 386 by our franchisees, all under the
 Bob s  tradename. Note that approximately 54.3% of these points of sale are located in the states
of Rio de Janeiro and S o Paulo, with the remainder widely spread throughout major cities in other
parts of Brazil, except for one franchised restaurant in Portugal and one in Angola. The largest
number of franchise operations outside Rio de Janeiro and S o Paulo are in the states of Santa
Catarina and Paran , both in the south of Brazil.

All points of sale serve a uniform menu of hamburgers, chicken burgers, hot dogs, sandwiches,
french fries, soft drinks, juices, desserts, ice creams and milkshakes. Selected points of sale
also serve coffee and/or beer. We are particularly known for our milkshakes and the special spicing
of our hamburgers.

Our fast-food service is based in a single line system distinguished from other competitors by
its variety and flexibility, which allow customers to add items to or exclude items from the
several meals they have to choose. We maintain a cooked-to-order philosophy: cooks would prepare
orders as read to them by the counter service representative who took the order.

Our points of sale are generally open all year round, seven days a week. Our points of sale
generally open at 10:00 a.m. for lunch and remain open for dinner. Closing hours vary according to
location. In some locations with proximity to late night entertainment, the points of sale remain
open for the  after hours  crowd.

Our prices are consistently positioned at the same levels as those for comparable products
offered by our major competitors. We attempt to maintain the overall cost of our meals at levels
competitive with prices offered by popular street snack bars known as  lanchonetes. 

Almost all of our points of sale have now been renovated to update the decor, introduce our
new logo created in 2001, modernize the menu boards, expand the seating facilities, include
playground for children and provide air conditioning. All new franchisees open their restaurants
with this house style, which is also carried through in the uniforms worn by our personnel
(occasionally modified to feature hats and shirts used in promotions).

For the past eleven years, we have been the exclusive provider of hamburgers and related items
at one of Brazil s largest special events   the Rio de Janeiro Carnival, the one-week festive
period that precedes the advent of Lent. Likewise, our food products are sold at other special
events throughout Brazil, mainly intent on young crowds. In Rio de Janeiro, we participated in the
events sponsored by Coca-Cola and the mobile phone operator Claro, respectively  Vibezone  and
 Claro Q   Rock , as well as in the event sponsored by renowned Pontific Catholic University of Rio
de Janeiro and during the games of two major soccer clubs in the 2005 Brazilian Soccer
Championship. In S o Paulo, we participated in the Winter Festival of Campos de Jord o and in the
event sponsored by the beer trademark Skol, the  Skol Beat . We also participate in events through
our franchisees in the north and northeast of Brazil. Using custom constructed trailers and
moveable kiosks, we are able to offer most of our products at temporary locations for the duration
of each special event. Besides providing an additional revenue

2

Table of Contents   

source, our visibility is enhanced by signage that can be picked up via television coverage of
the special event and by reaching a consumer market where we may not have a permanent outlet.

The following table presents the openings and closings of both our owned and operated
restaurants and our franchised restaurants for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

(a) 
       
     Does not include trailers and kiosks used for temporary locations during 2005, 2004 and 2003. 

(b) 
       
     In prior annual report, the total number of owned and operated kiosks opened during the
period ended December 31, 2004 was mistakenly overstated in two units. 

(c) 
       
     In prior annual report, the total number of franchised restaurants opened during the period
ended December 31, 2004 was mistakenly overstated in four units. 

The average guest check per customer for both our owned and operated points of sale and
franchise for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 was R$7.93, R$7.57, and R$6.70,
respectively.

We strive to maintain quality and uniformity throughout both our owned and operated and our
franchised points of sale by publishing detailed specifications for food products, food
preparation, and service, by continuous in-service training of employees and by field visits from
our supervisors. The store manager, who visually inspects the products as they are being prepared
for cooking, undertakes quality control at each point of sale. The store manager also keeps a
record of the expiration date of the products in inventory. In the case of our franchisees, a
marketing manager in each of our six primary geographic regions periodically reviews their
operations and makes recommendations to assist in the franchisees  compliance with our
specifications.

Our quality control inspectors are also sent periodically to each restaurant, whether owned by
us or by one of our franchisees, to conduct a review of the food stock. These inspectors also take
samples of the water used at each restaurant in the preparation of food and drinks as well as
random samples of one food item, which are taken to a contract laboratory for a microbiological
analysis.

Growth Strategy 

Bob s is the second largest fast food hamburger restaurant chain in Brazil. Our primary goal
is to continue to increase our network of points of sale in Brazil, where we believe fast food is a
developing market, and to gain market share by entering city markets where we are
under-represented.

3

Table of Contents   

Brazil has an estimated population of 184.2 million, a third of Latin America and Caribbean
total population. Sao Paulo, Brazil s largest city has 10.9 million residents. The city of Sao
Paulo is located within the state of Sao Paulo, which has a population of 40.4 million. Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil s second largest city, has 6.1 million residents and is located within the state of
Rio de Janeiro, which has a population of 15.4 million. Fourteen metropolitan areas in Brazil,
including those of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, have populations in excess of one million.
According to the IBGE   Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, in 2004 the average
monthly income of the Brazilian working population was as follows:

We are focusing our growth efforts upon the development of new franchises, in the proportion
of 40 stores to 60 kiosks. Our target is to achieve 580 operating points of sale in 2006, occupying
growth potential locations to avoid the entrance of competitors and increasing the number of
outlets in major cities of Brazil, like S o Paulo (SP), Salvador (BA), Porto Alegre (RS) and
Bras lia (Brazil s Federal District), as well as in cities with more than 300,000 inhabitants, and
depending on the average income, in cities with between 150,000 and 300,000 inhabitants.

We are also focusing our growth efforts on the increase in profitability of existing points of
sales. One of the objectives is to increase sales per square meter through the study of production
process and service attendance improvements, as well as personnel training.

In 2006, we intend to make capital expenditures of R$4,500,000 to conclude projects initiated
in 2005, upgrade both the technology system and the computer base at our own-operated stores,
purchase new equipment, introduce Coffee Station on existing stores and open new kiosks.
Furthermore, we intend to increase our marketing effort on children, as well as continue a
motivational program to improve service throughout our restaurant chain.

Franchise Program 

In 2005, for the eighth year in a row, Bob s received the Quality Seal of the Brazilian
Franchise Association (ABF). This quality seal is granted after a consultation with the franchisees
of pre-qualified franchisors about marketing performance, business support and training offered by
the franchisor. Franchisors only pre-qualify when fulfilling all necessary requirements of the
franchising industry.

Our franchise agreements generally require the franchisee of a traditional Bob s restaurant to
pay us an initial fee of R$90,000, which is lower for kiosks and small stores, and additional fees
equal to 5% of the franchisee s gross sales. Franchisees pay also 4% of monthly gross sales in
cooperative advertising fees. Our typical franchise agreement also provides that the franchisee has
the right to use the Bob s trademark and formulas in a specific location or area, must use our
approved supplies and suppliers and must build each franchised outlet in accordance with our
specifications at approved locations. The term of the majority of our franchise agreements is 10
years, with a few agreements having 5-year terms. Our existing franchise agreements have an average
remaining duration of approximately ten years. Historically, upon expiration a franchise agreement
is renewed without the interruption of the franchisee s business. We generally have no financing
obligations with respect to these franchise agreements.

At present, approximately 9 months elapse between our initial contact with a prospective
franchisee and the opening of a franchised point of sale. After the initial meeting, and if the
potential franchisee meets certain basic conditions, such as significant business experience,
financial resources and
knowledge of the market in the area where the franchise will be located, a preliminary
franchise

4

Table of Contents   

agreement is signed, which, among other matters, requires the prospective franchisee to
pay us a non-refundable sum equal to 50% of the initial franchising fee. Following mutual agreement
as to the site of a new restaurant, a definitive franchise agreement is signed, outlining the
obligations and responsibilities of each party, including the franchising fees and promotion
commissions to be paid to us. The franchisee then begins a four-month training program.
Construction of the restaurant typically begins at the beginning of the training program and is
generally completed within three to six months. The franchising fee is sufficient to cover all
training expenses we incur.

Under Brazilian law, we cannot dictate the price at which our franchisees sell their products,
although the prices charged by our franchisees generally mirror the prices charged by our owned and
operated points of sale.

Individuals wishing to own and operate a Bob s franchise are required to submit an application
to a steering committee formed by our top management, which reviews all applications and determines
which should be accepted. As part of our growth strategy, we have begun to participate in regional
business presentations and organize road shows in order to captivate new franchisees candidates in
targeted cities in Brazil.

We encourage mature and profitable franchisees to increase the number of stores they operate.
As a consequence of this strategy, the number of stores per group of franchisees (which includes
franchised restaurants in the name of partners and family relatives) increased from 1.77 in 1999 to
3.30 in 2005. At December 31, 2005, we had 158 franchisees that collectively operated 386 points of
sale.

We are also focusing on developing special agreements with gasoline retailers to house Bob s
points of sale in retail gasoline stations. We contemplate that some of these new restaurant/gas
stations, or  joint sites,  although housed at gas stations, will be built, owned and operated by
our present and future franchisees rather than by the gasoline retailer. We will then share a
portion of the royalties attributable to those joint sites with the respective gasoline retailers.

We are currently testing several joint sites with gasoline retailers, including Shell, Forza,
Ale, and Petrobras, the largest one in Brazil with approximately 7,000 locations. Our agreements
with each of these gasoline retailers do not establish a number of joint sites to be opened. These
agreements, like our standard franchise agreements, only set forth conditions to establish a joint
site and do not limit the number of joint sites that may be opened under the agreement. To date,
there are nine joint sites operating in Petrobras gas stations. Shell has five joint sites in
operation and we are negotiating an agreement with them to house a specific number of other joint
sites in certain approved locations. Forza, a gasoline retailer that also offers natural gas, a
fuel commonly used by taxi-drivers, now has twenty-one Bob s sites in operation. Besides, other
four join sites operate in Ale, Esso, Texaco and Repsol.

In November 2005, we opened our first franchise point of sale in Luanda, capital of Angola,
one of the largest countries in Africa with approximately 11 million people. As of today, we have
two points of sale operating abroad. Although we ceased a master franchise agreement to open
franchised points of sale in Portugal in 2004, there is still one point of sale operating in this
country; nevertheless, we are currently reevaluating its operation.

We generally retain a right of first refusal in connection with any proposed sale of a
franchisee s interest.

5

Table of Contents   

Advertising and Promotions 

We aim to increase fidelity among our target-market, formed by young consumers from 13 to 25
years old, and attract consumers not familiarized with our products. For this reason, we intend to
identify our fast-food hamburger restaurant chain with a place to go with the family and to meet
friends. In 2005, we focused on reinforcing our primary products in order to boost sales and
achieve these objectives.

To invigorate our image, we changed our advertising agency to NBS, a dynamic agency that
formulate marketing campaigns for other companies focused on communicating to young consumers. We,
through our advertising agency, develop a multi-media marketing program to advertise our restaurant
network in its primary markets. We usually employ television, radio, outdoors, and a variety of
promotional campaigns to advertise our products; and we develop 15 and 30-second television
commercials, which, typically, are aired one to six times a day for a 15-day period.

The first marketing campaign launched in 2005, by the end of February, was called  Milkshake
Carente  (Needing Milkshake). Its goal was to increase sandwich sales by associating it to our
blockbuster, the milkshake. The promo focused on the loneliness of the milkshake without a sandwich
companion and offered 50% off the price of three selected sandwiches to those who bought the medium
size milkshake.

In July, we launched a marketing campaign called  Big Bob Forever , consisting in advertising
our leading sandwich, the  Big Bob . The promo offered free french fries to those who bought the
sandwich with a soft drink and a prize to the best photo taken with the display made specially for
the campaign and the best devotion sentence to the  Big Bob .

To compete with McDonald s and Burger King, we have also launched a big size new sandwich, the
 Double Grill Bacon , a sandwich with two hamburgers of 120g and a slice of bacon. In addition, we
have also launched a huge promotion (using sampling, outdoors, busdoors and bikedoors) of our
delivery service in the state of Rio de Janeiro, the  Bob s Fone .

We also offer a kids meal, a three food items with a packaged toy, called the  TriKids . In
2005, we launched three different packaged toys to accompany the kids  meal. The  Secret Kit  and
the miniatures of the six personages of the cartoon Kids Next Door   KND and the  Squeeze Doo , a
plastic bottle colorfully decorated with Scooby-Doo cartoon personages. Certain of our points of
sale offer special services for children s birthday parties and also feature appearances by  Bobi,
Biba, and Bonga , our mascots. Visual tools, such as banners, posters and place mats, reinforce all
these programs.

In December, when increased masses occupy shopping malls and the streets due to the holidays
season, we launched a promo offering 50% off the price of the  Double Cheeseburger  sandwich to
those who bought the medium size milkshake.

We keep franchisees informed of current advertising techniques and effective promotions and
make our advertising materials available to our franchisees. Our franchisees are required,
generally, to pay us 4% of their monthly gross receipts for advertising and promotions. Individual
stores also develop promotional programs to attract additional clientele or to assist in the
implementation of expanded business hours. Each outlet pays for these promotions. We commit 4% of
our system-wide gross sales to marketing activities.

6

Table of Contents   

Sources of Supply 

We and our franchisees have not experienced any material shortages of food, equipment,
fixtures, or other products which are necessary to restaurant operations. We anticipate no such
shortages of products and, in any event, believe that alternate suppliers are available.

We purchase food products and packaging from numerous independent suppliers. In selecting and
periodically adjusting the mix of our suppliers, we assess and continuously monitor the efficiency
of their regional and national distribution capabilities. To take advantage of volume discounts, we
have entered into centralized purchasing agreements. Food products are ordered by, and delivered
directly to each point of sale. Billing and payment for our company owned and operated points of
sale are handled through the centralized office, while franchisees handle their own invoices
directly. Packaging and durable goods are delivered to Fast Food Distributor Ltda.   FBD, a
centralized warehouse operated by a non-affiliated person. This centralized purchasing helps assure
availability of products and provides quantity discounts, quality control and efficient
distribution.

In June 2005, we renegotiated our contract with FBD to include transportation and delivery of
supplies to each point of sale, and extended it, which otherwise would expire in December 2005, for
five more years. The new terms represent substantial cost reductions and will impact positively on
the operational margins of our fast-food restaurant chain. Due to that, Suprilog, a limited
liability company established by Venbo Com rcio de Alimentos Ltda., BFFC wholly-owned subsidiary,
with the objective to carry out the transportation service left by TGB in 2004 due to financial
difficulties, ceased its operations in November 2005.

We participate in long-term exclusivity agreements with Coca-Cola, for its soft-drink
products, Ambev, the biggest Brazilian brewery company, Farm Frites, the Argentinean producer of
french fries, and Sadia, one of the biggest meat processors in Brazil, as well as with Novartis
Nutricion for its Ovomaltine chocolate. These agreements are extensive to four to five years. The
Coca-Cola agreement was amended in 2000 to extend the exclusivity period to 2008.

Trademarks  

We believe that our trademarks and service marks, all of which are owned by us, are important
to our business.

Our trademarks and service marks have been registered in the Brazilian trademark office. These
trademarks and service marks expire at various times, when they are routinely renewed. The
following table sets forth our significant trademarks and service marks that are registered in the
Brazilian trademark office:

Currently we are reevaluating our trademarks referring to kids meal and related services, such
as birthday parties for children.

7

Table of Contents   

We have registered our trademark  Bob s  in Paraguay, Uruguay and Argentina, the three
countries members of the Mercosur   South America Commercial Agreement, in which Brazil takes part.
We have also registered  Bob s Burgers  trademark and logo in Paraguay and Uruguay, and we believe
we will in the near future register both in Argentina. We have also registered our trademark
 Bob s  in Portugal, Germany, France, Italy and Benelux (an economic union of Belgium, the
Netherlands, and Luxembourg), as well as in Angola, where we opened a franchise store at the end of
2005. As of today, we are initiating the process of registering our trademarks in the United Sates
of America, Mexico and Chile.

Competition 

In terms of number of points of sale, we are the second largest food service organization in
Brazil. Each of our restaurants is in competition with other food service operations within the
same geographical area. We compete with other organizations primarily through the quality, variety,
and value perception of food products offered. The number and location of units, quality and speed
of service, attractiveness of facilities, and effectiveness of marketing are also important
factors. The price charged for each menu item may vary from market to market depending on
competitive pricing and the local cost structure.

Additionally, each of our restaurants is in competition with informal food service. Fast-food
restaurants have to focus on a limited number of options, sometimes even on just one type of
product, in order to achieve the efficiency required in the competitive food service industry.
Brazil is a vast country with an extensive regional cuisine, where a typical meal from one region
can be found exotic in another, making more challenging the act of convincing the general public of
a cross-country homogeneous menu. Because of that, made to order improvisations, prepared at the
street by informal and moveable vendors nearby bus stations and subways, can be more appealing to
the general public, since it mirrors people preferences, is convenient and overcomes income
barriers more easily.

Moreover, each of our restaurants is in competition for consumers pocket with other services
and consumer goods, such as: mobiles, cable TV, broad band Internet, retail stores financing and
credit cards payments.

Statistical data drawn from the 2005 annual report elaborated by ABIA   Brazilian Food
Industry Association indicate that our share of the fast-food market approximated 7.5% and 6.6%
during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The food service industry total
revenue increased 12.5% per annum from 1995 to 2005. In 2005, its total revenue was of R$38.2
billion. The fast food represents around 12.0% of the total food service industry, which includes
restaurants, bars, snack bars, bakeries, industrial food service, hotels and catering, among
others.

As of December 31, 2005, McDonald s had approximately 1,197 points of sale in Brazil,
including 655 kiosks and 48 coffee stations. From the total, 140 stores were operated by 86
franchisees. Habib s, a Brazilian fast-food chain that offers Arabic food products at low price,
had approximately 260 points of sale. Giraffas, a fast-food chain that offers Brazilian popular
dishes as rice and beans and feijoada, black beans prepared with meat, had approximately 180 points
of sale. Subway, an American fast-food chain that offers made-to-order cold sandwiches, had
approximately 42 points of sale. Burger King, a new entrant in Brazil s fast-food industry, opened,
in just one year, 9 stores in S o Paulo and 3 other stores, respectively in Bras lia, Salvador and
Belo Horizonte.

Our competitive position is enhanced by our use of fresh ground beef and special flavorings,
made-to-order operations, comparatively diverse menu, use of promotional products, wide choice of
condiments, atmosphere and decor of our points of sale and our relatively long history in Brazil.
We

8

Table of Contents   

believe that the use of moveable trailers and kiosks, which are not utilized by our
competitors, affords us an advantage over our competitors. We also believe that, as a
Brazilian-based company, we have the advantage over our non-Brazilian competitors of being able to
readily understand and respond to local consumer preferences.

Personnel 

As of December 31, 2005, we, including our franchisees, employed 8,000 persons, of whom 1,629
were employed in our owned and operated restaurants. The total number of full-time employees as of
December 31, 2005 was 1,761 of which 190 were temporary personnel.

Our employee relations historically have been satisfactory. We are not a party to any
collective bargaining agreements. However, we have agreed to be bound by the terms, as they may be
applicable to our employees, of agreements negotiated on a city-by-city basis by trade associations
of hotel, restaurant and fast food owners and operators, of which we are a member.

(d) 
       
     FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES 

Not applicable.

Note: we opened our first franchise point of sale in Luanda, capital of Angola in November,
19th 2005; although we have been receiving royalties attributable to this operation since then, the
total amount received is not relevant to our operations.

Availability of Reports and Other Information

We make available, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports
on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A and amendments to those
materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act
of 1934 after we file electronically such material with, or furnish it to, the United States
Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ). Persons wanting copies of such reports may
send us their requests in writing at Rua Volunt rios da P tria 89, 9  andar   Botafogo CEP
22.270-010, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in attention to Brazil Fast Food Corp. Secretary. In addition,
such reports are available on the Commission s website located at www.sec.gov. The Commission makes
available on this website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the Commission.
Additionally, our reports, proxy and information statements may be read and copied at the
Commission s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 

This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements including statements regarding, among
other items, business strategy, growth strategy and anticipated trends in our business, which are
made pursuant to the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. The words  believe,   expect  and  anticipate  and similar expressions identify
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statement is made. These
forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and are subject to a number of
risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and are beyond our
control. Future events and actual results could differ

9

Table of Contents   

materially from those set forth in, contemplated by, or underlying the forward-looking
statements. Statements in this report, including those set forth in  Risk Factors,  describe
factors, among others, that could contribute to or cause such differences. In light of these risks
and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking information contained in this
Annual Report will in fact transpire or prove to be accurate. Investors are cautioned that such
forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties including without limitation the
following:

Risks Relating to Operations 

We have a history of significant net losses, and we may not
be profitable in the future; we may need to seek the
forbearance of creditors in the future. 

Although we have reached a positive result in 2005 and 2004, we incurred in net losses of
R$4,118,000 and R$11,210,000 for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Our
accumulated deficit at December 31, 2005 was R$58,687,000 and our working capital deficit at such
date was R$4,371,000. The year 2005 presented a positive macroeconomic scenario that, together with
strong measures implemented by the Company in its operation and administration, has helped it turns
itself profitable. Yet, we cannot say that the negative tendency is wholly reversed. Some of our
own stores are still non-profitable and our small operation margins are constantly been affected by
market factors concerning raw material, wages and location costs.

Our registered public accounting firm s report raises uncertainties about our ability to
continue as a going concern. 

The report of BDO, the registered public accounting firm of our consolidated financial
statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and those of Grant Thornton Auditores
Independentes, the independent auditor of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, recite that our recurrent losses from operations and negative
working capital raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plans
to continue as a going concern, discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, focus on efforts to
increase our cash flow. At this time, we cannot state with any degree of certainty whether such
increase will be possible and, if possible, sufficient to pay our debt obligations or operating
expenses.

Our success depends on our ability to compete with our major competitors in the fast food
industry. 

The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to compete with other restaurants
and fast food chains. To compete, we may be required to spend significant funds on marketing and
promotions and on developing and offering new products, while maintaining the prices we charge our
customers. Many of our competitors have vastly greater over-all financial and other resources
available to them than we do. For this reason, we may not have the resources necessary to compete
effectively, which may cause consumers to prefer the products of our competitors. As a result, we
could experience a decrease in revenues, which would have an adverse impact on our business and
operations.

A new challenge: the light food. 

The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to respond promptly to changing
consumer preferences. The demand for low fat and less caloric food has increased significantly in
the last few years. In addition, Government is constantly imposing new disclosure rules on the
nutrition content of food products on sale. To respond in accordance, we may be required to spend
significant funds on research and development of new products, new food preparation methods and new
appliances, as well as

10

Table of Contents   

on preparing and printing disclosure materials to be exposed in stores and on food packages.
We may not have the resources necessary to compete effectively, which may cause consumers to prefer
the products of our competitors. As a result, we could experience a decrease in revenues, which
would have an adverse impact on our business and operations.

Our future success is dependent upon the success and expansion of our franchise program. 

A portion of our revenues is attributable to the fees we collect from our franchisees. To
improve our revenues in the future, we have developed a growth strategy that includes increasing
our number of franchised points of sale. This growth strategy is substantially dependent upon our
ability to attract, retain and contract with qualified franchisees and the ability of these
franchisees to open and operate their Bob s points of sale successfully. In addition, our continued
growth will depend in part on the ability of our existing and future franchisees to obtain
sufficient financing or investment capital to meet their market development obligations. If we
experience difficulty in contracting with qualified franchisees, if franchisees are unable to meet
their development obligations or if franchisees are unable to operate their points of sale
profitably, the amount of franchise fees paid to us by our franchisees would decrease and our
future operating results could be adversely affected.

We are subject to extensive regulatory requirements applicable to the food service
industry. 

Both our franchisees and we are subject to regulatory provisions relating to the wholesomeness
of food, sanitation, health, safety, fire, land use and environmental standards. Suspension of
certain licenses or approvals due to our or our franchisees failure to comply with applicable
regulations could interrupt the operations of the affected restaurant and inhibit our or their
ability to sell products. Both our franchisees and we are also subject to Brazilian federal labor
codes, which establish minimum wages and regulate overtime and working conditions. Changes in such
codes could result in increased labor costs that could cause a reduction in our operating income.
We are also subject to Brazilian federal franchising laws applicable to franchise relationships and
operations. Changes in these or any other regulations may contain requirements that impose
increased burdens on our business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to deal successfully with any potential new or amended regulations.

Risks Relating to Brazil 

Our operations are subject to changes in Brazil s economy. 

Our business is very sensitive to the economic activity, and is highly affected by consumers 
confidence, population average income and employment.

In Brazil, these three factors have been limited by an economic growth that has averaged 2.0%
p.a. in the last eight years, what is a mediocre rate in comparison to other developing countries.
To blame there are Brazil s tax burden, which accounts for an estimated 38% of GDP, and real
interest rate, which, at around 11% p.a., is among the highest in the world. In addition, Brazilian
economic activity has been highly volatile: short periods of expansion alternating with
contraction. Even though, monetary policy has been consistent for all these years, inflation rates
have exceeded the inflation target fixed by the National Monetary Counsel.

Tax burden and interest rates pressure our business by depressing our margins and increasing
our cost of capital. Also, inflation pressure our business because, although inflation is often
reflected on food products and packing material we purchase, as well as, on utility service and
occupancy expenses we incur, to pass on higher costs is not always possible due to Brazilian low
consumers  purchase power.

11

Table of Contents   

Besides, higher inflation can pressure labor costs and increase unemployment, which has
an adverse effect on our business, since it spurs informal business, such as moveable food vendors
at the street.

Our business may be affected by political and constitutional uncertainty in Brazil. 

High levels of uncertainty have marked the Brazilian political environment since the country
returned to civilian rule in 1985 after 20 years of military government. Brazil s democracy
structure still lacks of solid political institutions, committed political parties and fair
judicial system.

Controls on foreign investments may limit our ability to receive capital from our Brazilian
operating subsidiary 

Brazil generally requires the registration of foreign capital invested in Brazilian markets or
businesses. Thereafter, any repatriation of the foreign capital, or income earned on the foreign
capital investment, must be approved by the Brazilian government. Although approvals on
repatriation are usually granted and we know of no current restrictions on foreign capital
remittances, there can be no assurance that in the future approvals on repatriation will be granted
or restrictions or adverse policies will not be imposed. If the Brazilian government delays or
refuses to grant approval for the repatriation of funds or imposes restrictions on the remittance
of foreign capital, the ability of our Brazilian operating subsidiary, Venbo Comercio de Alimentos
Ltda., to transfer cash from our operations out of Brazil may be limited.

Risks related to our common stock and shareholders agreement 

Common stock. 

Our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market on March 11, 2002. As a result,
our common stock is now quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may reduce the already thin trading
market of our common stock. In addition, the delisting from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market may
significantly impair our ability to raise additional funds to operate our business.

Shareholders agreement. 

On August 11, 1997, we entered into a stockholders  agreement with AIG Latin America Equity
Partners, Ltd., referred to herein as  AIGLAEP , and our then-current executive officers and
directors and certain of their affiliates. The stockholders  agreement provided that if we fail to
achieve the performance targets for each of the periods from January 1, 1997 to December 31, 1999,
2000 or 2001, respectively, AIGLAEP could appoint such number of its designees which, together with
an expansion of the board and the filling of vacancies created by the resignation of certain
directors serving at such time, would then constitute a majority of our board of directors, thereby
effecting a change in our control.

The 1997 stockholders  agreement was amended on March 14, 2001, to suspend AIGLAEP right to
appoint a majority of our board of directors as we failed to achieve the performance targets for
year ended December 31, 2000. The amendment set forth new performance targets, including
macroeconomic parameters in which such targets should be achieved, for the following two years
ended December 31, 2002.

On May 15, 2002, we entered into an additional stockholders agreement with Bigburger Ltda. and
CCC Empreendimentos e Participacoes Ltda., referred to herein as  Investors , and our then-current
executive officers and directors and certain of their affiliates. The agreement was signed in order
to provide BFFC with capital, for the subsequent injection of resources into Venbo, in the amount
of

12

Table of Contents   

R$5,000,000, during the first provision, and, for the second provision, the amount in Reais that
corresponds to US$ 850,000 at the time of the second provision, to be converted using the exchange
rate equivalent to the PTAX average rate for commercial Dollars, published by the Central Bank of
Brazil.

On December 20, 2004, AIGLAEP sold its total number of shares in equal parts to the Investors,
terminating the stockholders agreement signed on 1997 and amended on 2001.

Risks related to juridical and financial contingencies 

Special financing of fiscal debts. 

Since 2002, we have been beneficiaries of a special financing of fiscal past due obligations.
This program was called REFIS and, pursuant to several regulations, the past due obligations are
now consolidated in a program called PAES. This program consists in paying monthly to the
government a sum which corresponds to 1.5% of our revenues plus interest rates, calculated on the
basis of TJLP   Long Term Interest Rate, an annual interest rate established by the National
Monetary Counsel for a three-months period (currently at 9.0% p.a.). The term for this PAES program
is 15 years counted from July 1, 2003 when the PAES became valid and in full execution. At the
present moment our debt is of approximately R$14,628,000.

The sum we pay monthly increases as a function of our revenues growth. Interests are paid
monthly calculated on the balance of the debt, the TJLP been applied to the balance from July 1,
2003. This means that if our sales don t grow at the same rate as the TJLP the balance of the debt
in current terms will always grow and the sum we will pay monthly will become greater. All
companies participating of this program know they will be in serious financial difficulties in 4 or
5 years. The only solution for this problem would be an amnesty voted by the government and
confirmed by the parliament that would reduce the debt or the interest paid, but we cannot assure
this solution will be adopted. As a consequence this represents a serious risk to our possibility
of refinancing our fiscal debt in the next years.

We have found several differences in the figures exposed by the government and our books. All
of them seem to come from government errors and we are pleading for corrections.

Past due fiscal obligations of VENDEX. 

VENDEX was the owner of Venbo Com rcio de Alimentos Ltda., our Brazilian subsidiary, before
BFFC purchased it in 1996. At that moment a due diligence was done on Venbo s accounts to evaluate
their debts and other liabilities and assets. The agreement that was signed between VENDEX and BFFC
covering the transaction determined that VENDEX would be responsible for any hidden liability or
future liability concerning the acts of the company prior to the date of the agreement. Yet, a
clause restricts VENDEX responsibility to 5% of the price paid by BFFC, a sum that is around
R$3,500,000 at the present moment. Another clause says this limitation is not valid for certain
taxes not mentioned in the agreement but it is not clear enough which the limits are between taxes
covered or not by the limitation clause.

In the past years we have surveyed the situation of Venbo s fiscal debts prior to 1996 through
the communications we received from the fiscal authorities. These communications were immediately
sent to VENDEX lawyers with whom we were in permanent contact and who took care of the several
processes in which VENDEX was involved. The sums in discussion seemed to be within the limits of
the agreement. Yet, in the last months of 2004, we found that other debts had appeared and sums
begun to exceed the mentioned limit so becoming a financial risk for our company that could be included
in the

13

Table of Contents   

government s demands. All government demands are been discussed by VENDEX lawyers, but we
have called Venbo s lawyers to defend our interests against VENDEX. Our lawyers have been studying
the purchase agreement VENDEX/BFFC because other clauses of this agreement may be used to protect
our company. Anyway, this is a contingency that we cannot evaluate at the present moment. We don t
know the probability of success the matters contained in lawsuits, the extent of VENDEX and Venbo s
responsibilities and we don t know exactly the amount that is involved in each process or that
could be a new liability in our balance sheet.

In 2005, we have been summoned by the fiscal authority of the State of Rio de Janeiro to pay a
debt of R$45,000. In order to have a right to appeal we have been obliged to put in a pledge one of
our real states. VENDEX assumed the defense but has not substituted the seizure of our asset. This
means that, if these fiscal acts pursue in the future, we may be forced to sue VENDEX in order to
claim for our contractual rights, a long term process that, in the meantime, may affect our cash
flow.

Legal contingencies. 

In 2003, one franchisee has recently initiated a lawsuit against our company. He was an
unsuccessful franchisee that became a permanent debtor of royalty and marketing contributions. All
the efforts we have done for long periods to improve his business failed. We finally decided to
interrupt the franchise contract and we obtained the closure of the stores explored by this
franchisee. His demand is based on a principle that is against the basis of the franchise way of
operation. He supposes the franchiser may be considered responsible for having offered the
operation of a store with guaranteed profitability. Even if this argument is completely against the
franchise laws and the usual practices of our business, it is not impossible that this franchisee
may succeed in convincing a jury or a judge that some indemnity or compensation must be paid by our
company. This contingency is not accrued as a liability in our financial statements for we consider
the risk of failure in our defense is remote. However, we must call the attention of our
shareholders and future investors to the existing risk. (as of today, this claim is of
approximately R$5,000,000)

Tax contingencies. 

a) ISS   This is a municipal tax paid on services rendered. In 2004 a new regulation included
franchise royalties and other revenues in the list of  services rendered  that pay a 5% tax on
these revenues to the Town Hall. We are defending, as all other franchisers, that the franchise law
explicitly determines that franchise revenues don t pay services but rights to use a brand.
Concerning marketing taxes they are not revenues but sums franchisees transfer to the franchiser
for him to administrate marketing events, publicity and promotions. Our demand failed in the first
instance but we have appealed to the Court.

Yet, Municipal Inspectors investigated our subsidiary in routine inspection that started in
2004 and was concluded on March 2005. They stated in their report that ISS must be applied to all
franchise revenues from the year 2000, that means the whole period involving our two lawsuits in
due course. The amount to be paid is R$2,500,000 plus interest and fines. They also stated that we
should pay ISS on the sums received for exclusivity contracts with suppliers representing R$91,500
plus interest and fines. We are pleading also in Court that these contracts are not services.
Anyway, this ISS tax is a risk that could oblige us to increase our prices seriously affecting our
revenues in the future and in case we would be losers in law suits it would seriously affect our
bottom line income and our cash flow. We are now paying ISS on Royalties in Court and there is a
provision registered in our balance sheet liabilities.

b) ICMS Rio de Janeiro and S o Paulo   ICMS is a value added tax Venbo pays regularly since
May 2002. Every debt registered as of May 2002 has been paid and the Company has not incurred

14

Table of Contents   

in new past due debt since then. This tax is paid to the Governments of Rio de Janeiro and S o Paulo
states and to the Federal District (Bras lia). Each month the company sends an electronically
report    SINTEGRA - to the Government fiscal authorities, which includes several forms relating to
sales and sale expenses coming from the own stores.

In August 2005, the fiscal authorities of Rio de Janeiro, and later on the S o Paulo
authorities, compelled the company to submit form 60, one of SINTERGA s forms, in a compact disc
(CD) with 4 years month figures corresponding to two stores. A technical difficulty was found and
the company couldn t fulfill the requirement. As a consequence, the company was penalized in Rio de
Janeiro with a R$750,000 fine, duly registered in the balance sheet. The company appealed to the
Courts claiming the information required was not a primary obligation but an accessory obligation,
hence the amount inflicted was not in accordance with the nature of the fault. If this fine were to
be applied to all of our own and operated stores, the amount could reach several millions of Reais
(R$). We hope to negotiate this matter with the authorities both in Rio de Janeiro and S o Paulo to
avoid a major problem, find a solution for the future magnetic registers and pay a reasonable fine
for the past due registrations we will not be able to recover. Anyway, this is a major contingency
that must be taken into account when evaluating the company s financial statements.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 

All of our restaurants currently in operation, excluding kiosks and movable trailers, have
been built to our specifications as to exterior style and interior decor, are either in a strip of
stores on a neighborhood street or in mall food court points of sale, with some free-standing,
one-story buildings, and are substantially uniform in design and appearance. They are constructed
on sites ranging from approximately 1,100 to 7,500 square feet, free-standing points of sale. Most
are located in downtown areas or shopping malls, are of a store-front type and vary according to
available locations but generally retain standard signage and interior decor.

We own the land and buildings for 8 points of sale, 5 of which are presently leased to
franchisees. In addition, we own the land and the buildings located on the land for 3 points of
sale, and we also have leases for 56 points of sale. Our land and building leases are generally
written for terms of five years with one or more five-year renewal options. In certain instances,
we have the option to purchase the underlying real estate. Certain leases require the payment of
additional rent equal to the greater of a percentage (ranging from 1% to 10%) of monthly sales or
specified amounts.

We believe that our current facilities are adequate for our needs in the forseeable future.

Our corporate headquarters were located until June 2004 in premises at Avenida Brasil, 6431
Bonsucesso, CEP 21040-360, Rio de Janeiro, brazil, which Venbo acquired in 1995.

In January 2004 we adhered to an amnesty program issued by the Rio de Janeiro state concerning
ICMS (a tax on value added) past dues. Payments had been negotiated in monthly installments that we
were paying regularly when the government of Rio de Janeiro became interested in our headquarters
building that included an own operated store and a large parking lot. After extensive negotiations
we finally sold the building to the government for a price we consider exceptional in face of the
deterioration of the region where our installations were located. The price was R$2,800,000 and we
received R$2,100,000 in cash and R$700,000 as a compensation of the balance of the ICMS debt
consolidated at

15

Table of Contents   

that moment. The headquarters moved to Rua Volunt rios da P tria, 89   9th floor  
Botafogo in Rio de Janeiro   RJ. These are leased modern offices and we have been able to reduce
expenses due to the fact that we occupy a smaller area with less expenditure of electricity and air
conditioning machines.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

In 1999, we commenced court actions to defer payment of R$11,444,000 past due taxes to
Brazilian state and federal taxing authorities. These actions, which were filed pursuant to
procedures enacted under Brazilian law specifically to challenge the payments of taxes in arrears
and to seek a deferred payment schedule, were intended to extend payments on past due taxes and
reduce financing interest charges. During 2000 and 2002, we reached agreements with the state
authorities and obtained the right to fulfill our outstanding state tax obligation by making
payments over a ten-year period, as indexed to Brazil s Unidade Fiscal de Referencia, which is
currently 12.0% per annum. Consequently, we withdrew the legal action. During 2000 and 2003, we
also applied and were accepted to join tax amnesty programs offered by the Brazilian federal
government, now called PAES, and withdrew our action regarding the federal taxes. Under those
federal tax amnesty programs, we may fulfill our outstanding federal tax obligation by making
monthly installment payments equal to 1.5% of our gross sales, with interest accruing at rates set
by the Brazilian federal government, which are currently set at 9.0% per year. In fact, Debts
included in the PAES are divided into debts related to federal taxes and debts related to social
security obligations. We pay separately 0.75% for each institution, the  Receita Federal  in the
first case and the  INSS  for the latter. The great problem we have faced is the consolidation of
these debts in order to determine if the provisions registered in our financial statements are
correct. We have found several differences in the figures exposed by the government and our books.
All of them seem to come from government errors and we are pleading for corrections.

We also adhered to an amnesty issued by the Government of Rio de Janeiro state concerning past
due ICMS (a tax on aggregated value). We paid a debt of around R$3,500,000 with a 80% reduction on
fines and we compensated R$700,000 in the sale of our headquarters  building in Avenida Brasil. Yet
the state government couldn t find a debt of about R$362,000 that is accrued in our balance sheet
but they couldn t identify in their records. We believe this situation will soon be cleared up and
we will negotiate a new term for payment. A reserve is been done in our cash flow. See
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity
and Capital Resources  for a further discussion of these matters.

Concerning legal proceedings in due course we mentioned in Item 1  Risks related to juridical
and financial contingencies,  the case of one lawsuit against our company initiated by one
franchisee. He asserts that Venbo offered points of sale with a guarantee of profitability and
success, something completely against the principles and philosophy of the franchise business as
defined in the franchise law. Although we believe that the probability of winning this lawsuit is
great we cannot exclude the decision of judges or juries that would oblige us to pay an indemnity
or compensation to this franchisee. The store belonging to this franchisee is now been operated by
us with a good performance.

In 2001, we initiated a court action to seek a judicial determination that our equipment lease
financing agreements should not have their respective principal amounts indexed to the US dollar,
but instead stated in Brazilian Reais bearing interest at 12% p.a. While awaiting the court s
determination, we have deposited all installment payments due under our lease financing agreements
with the court in Reais, inclusive of 12% p.a. interest. In the event that we have an unfavorable
outcome in the litigation, we could be required to pay up to R$3,000,000, in addition to the
R$1,246,000 previously deposited with the
court, depending on court s decision and as a function of the report of the experts appointed
by the judge in due course.

16

Table of Contents   

See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
for a further discussion of these matters.

ISS  The ISS is a tax on services rendered. The franchiser s activities were not considered
services until 2003; however, in the beginning of 2004, a new ISS legislation determined that all
revenues including franchise activities would pay the ISS. This is in contradiction with the
Franchise Law.

Three revenues may be taxed according to this new law: initial fees paid by franchisees,
marketing contributions and royalties.

Our lawyers consider that initial fees pay the right to purchase the use of a brand, so they
are not a service rendered. Marketing contributions are sums the franchiser administrates in the
name of the franchisee and so they do not constitute real revenues.

Royalties are probably doubtful. In fact they pay the right to use the brand but judges could
say there are services included as training and technical assistance. Yet, this is not what the
franchise law determines.

Pursuing to our lawyers  opinion we are not paying ISS on initial fees and marketing fund
contributions and we are carrying on a lawsuit against the city of Rio de Janeiro concerning
royalties. In this case a judiciary pledge is being done monthly since the publication of the law.
We lost the administrative stage and our lawyers are appealing to the courts.

Years ago the company had been intimated to pay ISS on royalties. We are discussing in court
the intimation with a better chance to win this lawsuit because at the time there was no law
concerning this matter, except the franchise law that clearly says franchise activity is not a
service.

We have also many legal proceedings concerning labor contingencies. In 2005, we were condemned
to pay a fine of R$480,000 to an former employee. This amount is not frequent in labor processes,
due both to low wages of our store employees and high turn over of the majority of them. Even so,
the number of lawsuits in due course obliged us to make a provision affecting our income in
R$1,335,373.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders in the fourth quarter ended December 31,
2005.

17

Table of Contents   

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

Market Information 

Our common stock is quoted on OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol  BOBS.OB.  Prior to March
11, 2002, our common stock was quoted on The Nasdaq Capital Market. There is a limited public
trading market for our common stock. The following table sets forth the range of the high and low
bid quotations for our common stock for the periods indicated:

Holders 

The
number of record holders of our common stock as of March 29,
2006 was 74.

Dividends 

The above quotations represent prices between dealers, without retail markup, markdown or
commission. They do not necessarily represent actual transactions. We have never paid or declared
cash dividends on our common stock, and we currently intend to retain any future earnings for the
development of our business. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the
foreseeable future.

Brazil generally requires the registration of foreign capital invested in Brazilian markets or
businesses. Thereafter, the Brazilian government must approve any repatriation of the foreign
capital, or income earned on the foreign capital investment. In addition, the Brazilian government
may also impose temporary restrictions on foreign capital remittances abroad if Brazil s foreign
currency reserves decline significantly. Although approvals on repatriation are usually granted and
we know of no current restrictions on foreign capital remittances, our payment of dividends would
be subject to these limits if the Brazilian government delays, imposes these restrictions on, or
does not approve, the transfer by our Brazilian operating subsidiary, Venbo Comercio de Alimentos
Ltda., of funds out of Brazil for the payment of dividends to our non-Brazilian shareholders. See
 Risk Factors   Risks Relating to Brazil. 

Our payment of dividends is restricted under the American law because of the accumulated
losses registered in the balance sheet.

18

Table of Contents   

Equity Compensation Plans 

During 2005, the Company s Board of Directors and a majority of the shareholders of the
Company decided that Board compensation would be paid in cash and that no more stock options would
be granted. The provisions set by the Plan are still valid for all vesting options until the last
option grant (November, 2004). The following table give information about our common stock that may
be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants, and right under all existing equity compensation
plans as of December 31, 2005.

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION

Remaining  

Available For  

Securities to be  

Future Issuance  

issued upon  

Under Equity  

exercise of  
       
      Weighted-Average  
       
      Compensation  

outstanding  
       
      Exercise Price Of  
       
      Plans (excluding  

options, warrants  
       
      Outstanding  
       
      securities reflected  

and rights  
       
      Options, Warrants  
       
      in column (a)  

Plan Category  
       
      (a)  
       
      And Rights  
       
      (c)  

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders (1)

347,000 

$ 
     1.65 

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders (2)

Total (1)   (2)

347,000 

$ 
     1.65 

19

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA 

The following selected consolidated financial data has been derived from our audited financial
statements and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, including
the accompanying notes, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations, appearing elsewhere in this report.

20

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with ITEM 6  Selected Consolidation
Historical Financial Data , ITEM 1A  Forward Looking Statements , and with our consolidated
financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this report.

Background 

Over the last years, we have endeavored to reduce our operating costs, increase our product
offerings, improve our image to our customers, continuously develop and implement promotional
campaigns and steadily increase our restaurant network and franchise base. Although we have
experienced increases in operating revenues and positive net income in recent years, factors
related to the Brazilian political and economic environment have contributed to our history of
significant net losses. These factors include the following:

Brazilian Political Environment 

Brazil, which is located in the central and northeastern part of South America, is the largest
Latin American country and the world s fourth-largest democracy.

According to Latinobar metro, a Chilean organization that carried out surveys in 18 countries
each year since the mid-1990s, published exclusively by The Economist, democracy has increased its
resilience in Latin America. After decades of military ruling, the region has shown enthusiasm for
democracy and free-market reform, but its disappointing growth rate in recent years and recurring
recession periods (severe in some places) has brought up questions about which economic and
monetary policies is more adequate to respond to poverty and inequality. Latin America, and Brazil
is no exception, carries a legacy of past undemocratic practices, and although a large number of
its citizens believe that a market economy is essential for their country development, only a few
express faith in political parties, in the Congress and in the courts.

High levels of uncertainty have marked the Brazilian political environment since the country
returned to civilian rule in 1985 after 20 years of military government. Even though the election
of Luiz In cio Lula da Silva in 2002 has show democracy increasing matureness in the country, the
corruption scandal involving his Workers  Party (PT), the largest left-wing force in Latin America,
disappointed many enthusiasts.

Brazilian Economic Environment 

In March 1994, the Brazilian government introduced an economic stabilization program, known as
the  Real Plan , intended to reduce the rate of inflation by reducing certain public expenditures,
collecting liabilities owed to the Brazilian government, increasing tax revenues, continuing to
privatize government-owned entities and introducing the  Real , a new currency based on a monetary
correction index and fixed against the U.S. Dollar. From 1994 to 2000, the Real Plan resulted in
a substantial reduction in Brazil s rate of inflation.

During this period, many structural reforms, such as government monopolies break down,
privatization and deregulation of some sectors, were approved by the Brazilian Congress and Senate,
but the country fiscal deficit were still looming. After two major international crisis, Asia in
1997 and Russia in 1998, investors fled to minimize their lost while Brazil s international
reserves plunged. In January

21

Table of Contents   

1999, the Central Bank of Brazil determined the free fluctuation of
the  Real  against other currencies and adopted an inflation target methodology, where the National
Monetary Counsel establishes an inflation target, with maximum and minimum variation permitted, to
be met by the Central Bank through its monetary policy.

The Central Bank of Brazil implemented a tight monetary policy in order to keep inflation
under control. Nevertheless, the possibility of a left-wing president victory in 2002, scared out
investors, triggering Brazil s currency devaluation, which in only six months dropped 80% against
the U.S. Dollar. Inflation, already in two digits, spike higher.

The currency devaluation in 2002 boosted the country exports and helped an economic recovery
in the fourth quarter of 2003. In 2004, Brazil capitalized on international growth, depreciated
Brazilian currency and higher commodities prices, to grow 4.9%, according to the IBGE   Brazilian
Institute of Geography and Statistics (a governmental institution), helping income and employment
to recover from its worst figures in years. In 2005, a corruption scandal followed by a major
political crises halted economic growth. Brazil GDP increased only 2.3%, below all expectations.

1  Inflation as measured by IPCA   Broad Consumers Price Index 

2  Nominal Interest Rates (p.a.) as measured by the average interest rate in daily
transactions with federal government bond 

3  Devaluation/Revaluation of the Brazilian (R$) currency against U.S. Dollar ($)

Source: Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) and Central Bank of Brazil. 

22

Table of Contents   

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

COMPARISON OF YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003 (Amount in thousand of Brazilian Reais)

The following table sets forth statement of operations for the periods of twelve months ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. These statements segregate the earnings provided by our operated
stores business from the earnings provided by franchise business. However, all the operating
figures were stated as a percentage of the Net Restaurant Sales because we believe that, in
general, either kind of business (restaurant operations or franchise net earns) move towards Net
Restaurant Sales evolution, and, accordingly, cost and expenses should be analyzed in connection
with such evolution.

23

Table of Contents   

STORE RESULTS

Net Restaurant Sales 

Restaurant sales for our company-owned and operated points of sales increased R$10,221 or
15.6% to R$75,559 for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to R$65,338 and R$60,466 for the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Same store sales increased approximately
17.2% for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Same
store sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased by 6.2% when compared to 2003.

During the year of 2005 Company s sales were positively impacted by good economic environment
in Brazil. In addition to those factors, the following issues positively affected Company s
restaurant sales:

- intensive marketing campaigns featuring one of the Company s most popular products
( Ovomaltine  milkshake) as well as products to younger consumer and health oriented products,
including Nestea beverages

- investments on remodeling stores

- an average increase of 9% in the sales price of Company s products from December 31, 2004 to
December 31, 2005.

- 2005 winter in Brazil (July, August and September) has been one of the warmest in recent
years, resulting in considerable increases in sales of products such as ice cream, sundaes,
milkshakes and soft-drinks.

The increase of restaurant sales from 2003 to 2004 was due to (i) our promotional campaigns;
(ii) introduction of new products, mainly the  grill line  sandwiches; (iii) an average increase of
10% in the sales prices of our products from December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2004; (iv)
implementation of incentive plans to our store personnel. These positive effects on restaurant
sales were partially offset by the increase of one of the Brazilian Sales Taxes (COFINS) in January
2004.

Food, Beverage and Packaging Costs 

As a percentage of net restaurant sales, food, beverage and packaging costs were (37.5%),
(37.8%) and (39.3%) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Food, beverage and packaging costs decrease from 2003 to 2004 and to 2005 as a percentage of
net restaurant sales, is due to our ongoing efforts on negotiations of long term agreements with
some suppliers. The permanent growth of our franchise network is enhancing its negotiation power
with the suppliers.

In addition, during 2005 the devaluation of the U.S. Dollar against the Brazilian Real
provided a cost decrease on imported goods such as french fries, along with a positive impact on
goods derived from commodities denominated in U.S. Dollars such as meat and chicken.

The effect of the facts related above was partially offset by the increase of costs on
packaging costs. In addition, during the third quarter of 2005 there was an inventory write-off of
french fries, due to non-recurring logistic failure.

24

Table of Contents   

Payroll   Related Benefits 

As a percentage of net restaurant sales, store payroll and related benefits were (22.6%), flat
for the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.

During 2005 and 2004 there were increases on labor costs, such as:

- 2005- (i) the rise of the Company s store personnel salaries of approximately 6.6% provided
by union-driven agreements; (ii) growth of number of employees   new Operation Supervisors and
temporary employees- ; (iii) conversion of trainees (which have no labor charges) into new
employees.

- 2004- (i) purchase of new uniforms; (ii) annual increases in salaries mandated by
union-driven agreements.

Restaurant Occupancy Costs and Other Expenses 

As a percentage of restaurant sales, restaurant occupancy costs and other expenses were
(11.8%), (12.8%) and (12.5%) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

These decreases are due to negotiations of lease contracts which included temporary and
permanent lease cost reductions, as well as to the optimization of the fixed lease cost compared to
the increase of sales.

These decreases were partially offset by increases in such rents, derived from its contractual
restatements, according to Brazilian inflation measured by the IGP-M, currently at 2% (12.4% in
2004) per annum, as well as the opening of a new premium store with relevant rent cost.

Contracted Services 

Expenses related to contracted services expressed as a percentage of net restaurant sales were
approximately (11.4%), (12.7%) and (13.1%) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.

During 2005, this decrease was mainly attributable to the reduction of utilities (especially
communication), to decreases on service of values transportation as well as delivery costs. Those
reductions were partially offset by increases in the costs of maintenance on equipments and
buildings.

During 2004, this decrease in percentage of net restaurant sales during 2004 is mainly
attributable to the reduction obtained on some contracted services such as delivery, technology,
maintenance and security for special events during 2004. The effect of those decreases was
partially offset by expenses related to our call center, which operations started in December 2003,
as well as increases in the costs of maintenance parts.

Other Store Cost and Expenses 

Other store cost and expenses expressed as a percentage of net restaurant sales were
approximately (4.3%), (3.4%) and (2.8%) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.

The increase during 2005 is mainly attributable to the increase of cleaning material and
higher expenses related to special events.

25

Table of Contents   

The increase during 2004 is mainly attributable to the increase on the insurance costs,
increase of consumption of material costs and higher traveling expenses due to new stores open away
from the Company s headquarters.

FRANCHISE RESULTS

Net Franchise Revenues 

Franchise revenues are comprised of initial fees (amount due at the signing of a new franchise
contract) and royalty fees (derived from a percentage on the sales of the stores operated by
franchisees), as set forth below:

Franchise income increased R$2,549 or 27.1% to R$11,963 for the year ended December 31,
2005, as compared to R$9,414 and R$9,264 for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. These increases are mainly attributable to the growth of our franchised business
from 280 points of sale as of December 31, 2003 to 325 as of December 31, 2004 to 386 as of
December 31, 2005.

In addition of royalty fees and initial fees, the Company receives from franchisees market
funds which represent franchise contributions to finance corporate marketing investments and are
accounted for as discussed at note 2 of the financial statements.

Franchise Costs and Expenses 

Franchise cost and expenses expressed as a percentage of net restaurant sales were
approximately (2.8%), (2.9%) and (3.6%) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.

Such decreases are attributable to the optimization of the franchise expenses related to the
growth of the franchise network.

The decrease observed during the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 as contrasted to the
same period of 2003 is attributable to the optimization of the franchise expenses related to the
growth of the franchise network, as well as a reduction on the number of employees dedicated to
franchise operation.

MARKETING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE (EXPENSES) INCOME

Marketing (expenses) income 

As a percentage of net restaurant sales, marketing income (expenses) were approximately
(3.2%), 0.5% and (1.1%) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

26

Table of Contents   

The increase of net marketing expense in 2005 is attributable to higher and more
expensive investments mainly related to TV commercials.

In 2003, the company exceed its marketing income by its marketing expenses, and so has used
other sources of income to maintain the marketing expenses it believed necessary to its business.
In 2004, the company has limited its marketing expenses in order to balance the funds it used
before, but comparatively it has been increasing the total amount invested in marketing every year.

The reversal from net marketing (expense) in 2003 to net marketing income in 2004 is mainly
attributable to a higher level of marketing funds derived from the increase of franchisees from
period to period, as well as an optimization of marketing investments.

General and Administrative Expenses 

As a percentage of restaurant sales, general and administrative expenses were approximately
(12.2%), (12.0%) and (10.8%) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

For 2005 the administrative expenses increased due to the growth of Company s sales which
required an physical expansion of Company s headquarter, as well as new hired employees in finance
and accounting departments. In addition there were two promotions for top management: (i) one for
the supply department; (ii) one for a new region unit, which will develop a network at regions in
Brazil that the Company has not a meaningful presence. Those increases were partially offset by
lower consulting fees and lower bank charges.

There were increases on administrative expenses observed in 2004 mainly attributable to
increase on salaries and labor charges of our administrative personnel as well as increase on
consultant fees regarding tax-planning services. In addition, a reduction of administrative
personnel occurred during June 2004, derived extra expenses related to the legal obligations for
employee dismissals.

Other Operating Income (Expenses) 

Other operating income (expenses) expressed as a percentage of net restaurant sales were 3.0%,
for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, 1.0% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004
and (4.9%) for the same period ended December 31, 2003.

27

Table of Contents   

Other operating income (expenses) are mainly comprised of income derived from suppliers
pursuant to terms of certain exclusivity agreements and non recurring income or expenses. The
following table sets forth the breakdown of Other Operating Income (Expense):

Other operating income was impacted by the reassessed tax reversal of 2005 discussed at
note 4 of the consolidated financial statements, by the positive operating results of Venbo s
subsidiary, which operations started during the third quarter of 2004 and ended on the beginning of
December, 2005.

Despite of improving the collection rate from its franchisees during 2005, the Company had to
write-off approximately R$1,100 of credit card receivables due to accumulated administration fees,
which were not previously accounted for.

During 2004, the improvement of other operating income (expense) is due to a greater amount of
rebates negotiated with suppliers during the twelve months of 2004, compared to the same period of
2003. In addition, 2003 was negatively impacted by non-recurring charges related to adjustments of
the Company s balance of its tax amnesty program.

Depreciation and Amortization (Stores and Headquarters) 

As a percentage of restaurant sales, depreciation and amortization expense, (both store and
headquarters) was approximately (4.4%)%, (5.2%) and (5.5%) for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.

The decrease observed in 2005 is due to the stabilization of the depreciation cost compared to
the increase of sales.

The 2004 and 2003 decreases are attributable to the completion of depreciation upon some
assets (mainly computers and leasehold improvements).

Impairment of Assets and Net Result of Assets Sold 

We usually review our fixed assets in accordance with SFAS 144, which requires that long-lived
assets being disposed of be measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to
sell. As a consequence of such review, the Company recorded expenses in the first quarter of 2005
derived from the adjustments to reach such appropriate fixed asset value.

During 2004, our review in accordance with SFAS 144, derived no charge to the income
statement.

28

Table of Contents   

INTEREST INCOME (EXPENSES) AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAIN (LOSS)

Interest Income (Expenses) 

As a percentage of restaurant sales, net interest expense and foreign exchange gains and/or
losses were approximately 0.7%, (4.8%) and (5.0%) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.

The percentage decrease for the period ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the same period
in 2004 is attributable to reduction of the level of Company s bank indebtedness and to the effect
of the reversal of interest on reassessed tax (R$809) discussed at note 12 of the financial
statements. In addition, the Company accounted for a non-recurring income of approximately R$800
regarding finance discounts obtained from one of the its suppliers.

Interest expenses increased for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the
same period in 2003 due to the increase of overall interest rates in Brazil during 2004. However,
the perception of such increase was diluted by the growth of restaurant sales.

Foreign Exchange and Monetary Restatement Gain (Loss) 

As a percentage of net restaurant sales, net foreign exchange and monetary restatement gain
and/or losses were approximately (0.1%), (0.4%) and (0.7%) for the twelve months ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The improvement of net gain or loss is attributable to deflation observed in the recent last
months in Brazil, which had a positive effect on the Company s liabilities subject to inflation
indexation. The improvement is also attributable to reversal of the monetary restatement of
reassessed taxes in connection with its adjustment discussed at note 12 of the consolidated
financial statements.

The decrease of foreign exchange losses during the period of 2003 is primarily attributable to
the valuation of the Brazilian Real against the U.S. Dollar during twelve month period ended
December 31, 2003. The valuation of Brazilian Real continued during 2004, resulting in amounts even
lower than those observed in 2003. Those effects of foreign exchange gain or losses are derived
from the restatements of the obligations denominated in U.S. Dollars that the Company had at that
year. The decrease of net losses during 2003 and 2004 is also attributable to the extinguishment
of debts denominated in U.S. Dollars.

29

Table of Contents   

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (Amounts in thousand of Brazilian reais)

A) Introduction 

Since March 1996, we have funded our cumulative operating losses of R$58,687 and made
acquisitions of businesses and capital improvements (including remodeling of our retail outlets) by
using cash remaining at the closing of our acquisition of Venbo, by borrowing funds from various
sources and from private placements of securities. As of December 31, 2005, we had cash on hand of
R$2,444 and a working capital deficiency of R$4,371.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had net cash provided in operating activities of
R$10,001, net cash used in investing activities of R$2,766 and net cash used on financing
activities of R$6,488. Net cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of Company s
investment in store remodeling and equipment to improve Company s retail operations. Net cash used
on financing activities was a result of Company s repayment of borrowings from financial
institutions.

For the year ended December 31, 2004, we had net cash provided by operating activities of
R$1,703, net cash used in investing activities of R$1,614 and net cash provided by financing
activities of R$590. Net cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of our
investment in property and equipment to improve our retail operations. Net cash provided by
financing activities was a result of our borrowings from financial institutions.

Our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) were as follows:

Company discloses EBITDA because it has been used as a target in past Stockholders 
Agreements. EBITDA is not intended to be a performance measure that should be regarded as an
alternative to, or more meaningful than, either loss from operations or net loss as an indicator of
operating performance or cash flows as a measure of liquidity, as determined in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

30

Table of Contents   

B) Debt Obligation   financial institutions 

Our cash resources are currently used primarily to pay for the servicing costs on our debt
obligations, which costs have increased significantly due to increased interest rates in Brazil
charged on short-term debt and the devaluation of the Real against the U.S. Dollar. Our debt
obligations as of December 31, 2005 were as follows:

(a) 
       
     Credit facilities from related parties, including company and private individuals.
Repayment of principal is indexed to IGP-M (currently at 2.38% per annum) with interest
of 12.0% per annum. Those transactions were made at usual market value and were repaid
during the last quarter of 2005. 

(b) 
       
     Comprised of credit facility from a Brazilian private financial institution,
guaranteed by certain officers and receivables. Principal and the interests of 34.89%
per annum are due in four monthly installments ending April 2006. Currently, the
Company has approximately R$3,500 of unused credit line. 

(c) 
       
     This credit facility was used to purchase two stores. Repayment of principal is
due in ten monthly installments of R$53, ending July 2006, in addition of one payment
of R$488 on January 2006. There is no interest charged on these borrowings. Principal
is indexed to Brazilian inflation measured by IGP-M. This facility is secured by the
fixed assets purchased. 

(d) 
       
     This amount is comprised of 9 different lease facilities with Brazilian private
institutions which were related to the logistics and distribution operations. This
portion of business was sold during the last quarter and the company which acquired
such business assumed the balance of those debts. 

C) Debt Obligation   taxes 

During 1999, 2001 and beginning 2002 certain Brazilian State and Federal taxes levied on the
Company were not paid. In addition during 2002, Brazilian Social Security Authorities applied
penalties against the Company, by charging certain operating transactions not covered by the
Company s previous calculation of Social Security contributions. Those debts were renegotiated in
different moments and with different levels of Brazilian Government.

Since June 2002, the Company has paid all its current taxes on a timely basis. The tax debt
evolution and their current status are summarized as follows:

31

Table of Contents   

State Tax 

Since the second quarter of 2000, the Company has been reaching a sequence of agreements with
the Rio de Janeiro state government to parcel unpaid taxes.

The last agreement with the Rio de Janeiro state government was settled during the third
quarter of 2004, through which the Company sold one of its property in exchange of (a) a sum in
cash; (b) the waiver of the balance of the unpaid state tax that were parceled according to
previous agreements; (c) tax credits which compensated tax on revenues accounted for during the
last quarter of 2004.

During the last agreement, a portion of the Company state tax liability was not recognized by
the fiscal authorities and another portion is being recalculated by them. During 2005, fiscal
authorities computed some portions of the debt and the Company paid all of them, at the amount of
approximately R$682. The consolidation of the remaining debt is not expected to be computed during
2006, and accordingly the Company accrued, according to its estimates, as long term liability. The
remaining debt is annually restated by interest rates set by the Rio de Janeiro State Government,
currently 5.8% per year.

Federal Taxes 

Concerning the unpaid Federal taxes and the Social Security penalties, the Company applied to
join and was accepted into two subsequent amnesty programs offered by the Brazilian Federal
government (REFIS during 1999 and PAES during 2003).

The second amnesty program (PAES) included the balance of the previous Federal tax amnesty
program (REFIS) and unpaid 2001 and 2002 federal tax, as well as the Social Security penalties.
The total debt included in such program is being paid in monthly installments equivalent to 1.5% of
the Company s gross sales, with interest accruing at rates set by the Brazilian Federal government,
currently 9.0% per year.

All installments related to those programs have been paid on a timely basis.

During 2005, the Company paid approximately R$1,522 related to such Brazilian Federal tax
amnesty program, including R$148 of interests.

D) Debt Obligation   summary of tax debts 

Considering all the above mentioned fiscal debts, we are required to pay restructured past-due
Brazilian state taxes of approximately R$362 and federal taxes of approximately R$14.628.

For the fiscal 2006, we expect to pay approximately R$1,522 pursuant to the federal tax
amnesty program. We expect to have payments regarding the state tax settlements during 2006,
however we are depending on calculations of such debt to be provided by the tax authorities. We
cannot predict of how much of the debt will be consolidated and paid by the end of 2006.

E) Other Obligations 

We have long-term contractual obligations in the form of operating lease obligations related
to our owned and operated outlets.

The future minimum lease payments under those obligations with an initial or remaining
non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year at December 31, 2005 are as follows:

32

Table of Contents   

Rent expense was R$6,499 for the year ended December 31, 2005.

In the past, we have generated cash and obtained financing sufficient to meet our debt
obligations. We plan to fund our current debt obligations mainly through cash provided by our
operations, borrowings and capital raising.

Our capital expenditures for fiscal 2005 were approximately R$4,350. We require capital
primarily for the improvement of our owned and operated points of sale. Currently, four of our
owned and operated retail outlets are located in facilities that we own and all of our other owned
and operated retail outlets are located in leased facilities.

Our average cost to open a retail outlet was approximately R$300 to R$500 including leasehold
improvements, equipment and beginning inventory, as well as expenses for store design, site
selection, lease negotiation, construction supervision and obtaining permits.

We have estimated that our capital expenditures for fiscal 2006, which will be used to
maintain and upgrade our current restaurant network as well to provide new investments on
restaurant equipment, will be approximately R$4,500. We anticipate that the primary use of our cash
resources during 2006 will be to service our debt obligations. During 2006, we intend to focus our
efforts on expanding both the number of our franchisees and the number of our franchised retail
outlets, neither of which are expected to require significant capital expenditures.

As discussed above, we have contractual obligations in different forms. The following table
summarizes our contractual obligations and financial commitments, as well as their aggregate
maturities.

Lease obligations are usually restated in accordance to Brazilian inflation (see disclose the
latest recent yearly rates at Background, ITEM 7 of this report). The loans payable and fiscal
debts are due with interests, which rates are discussed on letters B and C above. All the amounts
disclosed on the previous tables include interest incurred up to December 31, 2005 on an accrual
basis.

33

Table of Contents   

Cash provided by operations along with our borrowing capacity and other sources of cash will
be used to satisfy the obligations and our estimates for capital improvements, (including
remodeling of our retail outlets).

We plan to address our immediate and future cash flow needs to include focusing on a number of
areas including:

- the sale of certain of Company s owned and operated stores;

- the reduction of expenses, including reducing Company s per-store headcount expense by continuing 
to expand Company s operations while maintaining Company s current headcount;

- the expansion of Company s franchisee base, which may be expected to generate additional cash 
flows from royalties and franchise initial fees without significant capital expenditures;

- the introduction of new programs (including training) and menu expansions to meet consumer needs 
and wishes;

negotiation with suppliers in order to obtain significant rebates in long term supply contracts; 
and

- renegotiation of past due receivables with franchisees.

GOING CONCERN ISSUE

In order to sustain our operations, we have in the past been dependent upon the continued
forbearance of our creditors. While we are currently in full compliance with agreements with our
creditors, there can be no assurance that we will not be forced to seek the forbearance of our
creditors in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that our plans will be realized,
or that additional financing will be available to us when needed, or on terms that are desirable.
Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will locate suitable new franchisees, or desirable
locations for new and existing franchisees to open retail outlets. Our ability to further reduce
expenses and optimize our headcount is directly impacted by our need to maintain an infrastructure
to support changing the locations, if required, of both our current and future retail outlets and
operations. Our ability to re-market our company-owned retail outlets to franchisees, and to
generate cash flows from such activities, is impacted by our ability to locate suitable buyers with
the interest and capital to complete such transactions, and the time to complete such sales.
Additionally, our ability to achieve our plans is further impacted by the instability of both the
political and economic environment in Brazil, which has a direct impact on the desire and ability
of consumers to visit fast food outlets. We are also dependent upon the continued employment of
key personnel.

These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going
concern.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are
based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses as well as related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we
evaluate our estimates and judgments

34

Table of Contents   

based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
assumptions or conditions.

We annually review our financial reporting and disclosure practices and accounting policies to
ensure that they provide accurate and transparent information relative to the current economic and
business environment. We believe that of our significant accounting policies (See the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements or summary of significant accounting policies more fully
described in pages F-10 through F-14 , the following involve a higher degree of judgement and/or
complexity.

Constant currency restatement 

Through June 30, 1997 the Brazilian economy was hyperinflationary as defined in Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 52. The financial statements prior to that time were
comprehensively restated for the effects of inflation. After that date, inflation restatement was
not applied, however the non-monetary assets reflect the effects of inflation through that date.

Foreign currency 

Assets and liabilities recorded in functional currencies other than Brazilian Reais are
translated into Brazilian Reais at the prevailing exchange rate as reported by the Central Bank of
Brazil as of the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at the weighted-average
exchange rates for the year. The resulting translation adjustments are charged or credited to other
comprehensive income. Gains or losses from foreign currency transactions, such as those resulting
from the settlement of receivables or payables denominated in foreign currency, are recognized in
the consolidated statement of operations as they occur.

Accounts receivable 

The allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated based on aspects such as aging of due
receivables and client s current economic situation.

Long-Lived Assets 

We follow SFAS No. 144 with regard to impairment of long lived assets and intangibles. If
there is an indicator of impairment (i.e. negative operating cash flows) an estimate of
undisclosed future cash flows produced by each restaurant within the asset grouping is compared to
its carrying value. If any asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured by the excess
of the carrying value. If any asset is determined to be impaired, the loss measured by the excess
of the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151,
 Inventory Costs . This statement requires that certain costs such as idle facility expense,
excessive spoilage, double freight, and re-handling costs be recognized as current-period charges
and that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal
capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of the statements should be effective for
inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15,2005. Adoption of this
statement had no impact on the Company s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

35

Table of Contents   

In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Statement Accounting Standards No. 154,
 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections-a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement
No. 3  ( SFAS 154 ). This Statement replaces APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting Changes,  and FASB
Statement No. 3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements.  SFAS 154 requires
retrospective application to prior periods  financial statements for changes in accounting
principle, unless it is impractical to determine either the period-specific effects or the
cumulative effect of the change. SFAS 154 also requires that a change in depreciation,
amortization, or depletion method for long, non-financial assets be accounted for as a change in
accounting estimate effected by a change in accounting principle. SFAS 154 is effective for
accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2005. The Company believes that adoption of the provisions of SFAS 154 will not have a material
effect on the Company s Consolidated financial statements.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,  Share-based Payment.  SFAS No. 123R is a
revision of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , and supersedes APB 25. Among
other items, SFAS 123R eliminates the use of APB 25 and the intrinsic value method of accounting,
and requires companies to recognize the cost of employee Services received in exchange for awards
of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those awards, in the financial
statements. The effective date of SFAS I23R is January l, 2006, for calendar year companies.

SFAS 123R permits companies to adopt its requirements using either a  modified prospective 
method, or a  modified retrospective  method. Under the  modified prospective  method, compensation
cost recognized in the financial statements beginning with the effective date, based on the
requirements of SFAS 123R for all share-based payments granted after that date, and based on the
requirements of SFAS 123 for all unvested awards granted prior to the effective date of SFAS 123R.
Under the  modified retrospective  method, the requirements are the same as under the  modified
prospective  method, but also permits entities to restate financial statements of previous periods
based on proforma disclosures made in accordance with SFAS 123.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE INFORMATION ABOUT MARKET RISK 

We finance a portion of our operations by issuing debt and entering into bank credit
facilities. These debt obligations expose us to market risks, including interest rate risk and
foreign currency exchange risk. A portion of our purchase commitments are denominated in U.S.
Dollars, while our operating revenues are denominated in Brazilian Reais. We have extinguished all
of our debt denominated in US$ during 2003. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the Real and
the U.S. Dollar expose us to significant foreign exchange risk. We attempt, when possible, to
protect our revenues from foreign currency exchange risks by periodically adjusting our selling
prices in Reais.

36

Table of Contents   

We do not engage in trading market risk-sensitive instruments or purchasing hedging
instruments or  other than trading  instruments that are likely to expose us to market risk,
whether interest rate, foreign currency exchange, commodity price or equity price risk. We have
not entered into any forward or future contracts, purchased options or entered into swaps.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

See pages F-1 through F-30 comprising a portion of this report.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

Grant Thornton had a partnership with Trevisan, a highly respected Brazilian firm of
independent auditors that came to an end in the middle of 2004. Trevisan made a new partnership
with BDO and so, consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
were audited by the new auditors.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

In order to ensure that the information we must disclose in our filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission is recorded, processed, summarized and reported on a timely basis, we have
formalized our disclosure controls and procedures. Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny, our principal
executive and acting as our principal financial officer has reviewed and evaluated the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e), as of December 31, 2005. Based on such evaluation, Mr. Bomeny has concluded that, as
of December 31, 2005, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in timely alerting him
to material information relating to us (and our consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included
in our periodic SEC filings.

There have been no significant changes in our internal controls or other factors that could
significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation.

37

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 

The 1997/2001 stockholders  agreement between us and several stockholders was terminated on
December 29th, 2004 and is no longer of any force or effect.

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and use of proceeds

(c) During the twelve months ended December 2005, the Company purchased a total of 101,900
shares of its common stock at a total cost of R$216.

Quarterly increments of such purchase are as follows:

38

Table of Contents   

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The items required by Part III, Item 10 are incorporated herein by reference from the
Registrant s Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed on or before
April 30, 2006.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

The items required by Part III, Item 11 are incorporated herein by reference from the
Registrant s Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed on or before
April 30, 2006.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS  

The items required by Part III, Item 12 are incorporated herein by reference from the
Registrant s Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed on or before
April 30, 2006.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

The items required by Part III, Item 13 are incorporated herein by reference from the
Registrant s Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed on or before
April 30, 2006.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

The items required by Part III, Item 14 are incorporated herein by reference from the
Registrant s Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed on or before
April 30, 2006.

39

Table of Contents   

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a)     Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules:

(i)     Financial Statements filed as a part of this Annual Report are listed on the  Index to
Financial Statements  at page F-1 herein.

(ii)     Financial Statement Schedules

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K

None.

(c)     Exhibits

Exhibit Index Description

3.1     Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended (1)

3.2     By-laws of the Registrant (2)

4.1*     Capitalization
and Administrative Restructuring Intentions Protocol dated May 15, 2002.
 10.1  Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Option Plan (2)

10.2  Capitalization and Administrative Restructuring Intentions Protocol dated May 15, 2002 by and
among Brazil Fast Food Corp., Gustavo Figueredo Bomeny, CCC Emprendimentos e Participacoes Ltda.,
BigBurger Ltda., Jose Ricardo Bousquet Bomeny, Omar Carneiro da Cunha, Seaview Venture Group, Peter
van Voorst Vader and Shampi Investments A.E.C. (3)

21.1  Subsidiaries of Registrant (4)

24.1  Power of Attorney (comprises a portion of the signature page of this report)

40

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Rio de Janeiro, Federative Republic of Brazil, on the 31st
day of March, 2006.

BRAZIL FAST FOOD CORP.  

By: /s/ Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny 

Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny

President and Chief Executive Officer 

KNOWN ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and
appoints and hereby authorizes Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny and Peter J.F. van Voorst Vader,
severally, such person s true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, with full power of substitution or
resubstitution, for such person and in such person s name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign on such person s behalf, individually and in each capacity stated below, any
and all amendments, to this Annual Report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and
other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
said attorneys-in-fact, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite or necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes
as such person might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Registration Statement
has been signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

41

Table of Contents   

/s/ Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny

Date: March 31, 2006  

Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny

Chief Executive Officer and Acting Chief Financial

Officer

/s/ Omar Carneiro da Cunha

Date: March 31, 2006  

Omar Carneiro da Cunha

Chairman of the Board

/s/ Peter J.F. van Voorst Vader

Date: March 31, 2006  

Peter J.F. van Voorst Vader

Director

/s/ Romulo Borges Fonseca

Date: March 31, 2006  

Romulo Borges Fonseca

Director

/s/ Jos  Ricardo Bousquet Bomeny

Date: March 31, 2006  

Jos  Ricardo Bousquet Bomeny

Director

/s/ Stephen J. Rose

Date: March 31, 2006  

Stephen J. Rose

Director

/s/ Guillermo Hector Pisano

Date: March 31, 2006  

Guillermo Hector Pisano

Director

/s/ Gustavo Figueiredo Bomeny

Date: March 31, 2006  

Gustavo Figueiredo Bomeny

Director

42

Table of Contents   

BRAZIL FAST FOOD CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Page  

Reports of independent registered public accounting firms 

F-2 and F-3 

Financial statements:

Consolidated balance sheets 

F-4 

Consolidated statements of operations 

F-5 

Consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) 

F-6 

Consolidated statements of changes in shareholders  equity (deficit) 

F-7 

Consolidated statements of cash flows 

F-8 

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

F-9 to F-30 

F-1

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Shareholders of 
Brazil Fast Food Corp. and subsidiaries

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Brazil Fast Food Corp. and
subsidiaries (a Delaware corporation) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), changes in shareholders  equity
(deficit) and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an
audit of its internal control over financing reporting. Our audits includes consideration of
internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financing reporting. Accordingly, we express
no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Brazil Fast Food Corp. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years
then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.

The financial statements as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and for the year then ended have been
prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2, to the
financial statements, the Company has suffered recurring losses and has a negative working capital
and shareholders  equity that raises substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going
concern. Additionally, there are some lawsuits that, although evaluated as remote probability of
loss by the legal advisories, could result in cash losses to the Company which are not quantified
and consequently not accrued. Management s plans in regards to these matters are also described in
Note 2. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome
of this uncertainty.

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 
March 27, 2006

BDO Trevisan Auditores Independentes

F-2

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Shareholders of 
Brazil Fast Food Corp. and subsidiary

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Brazil Fast Food Corp. and
subsidiary (a Delaware corporation) as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, comprehensive loss, changes in shareholders  equity (deficit) and cash
flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2003. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Brazil Fast Food Corp. and subsidiary as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
two years in the period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America.

The financial statements as of December 31, 2003 and for the year then ended have been prepared
assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2, to the
financial statements, the Company has suffered recurring losses and has a negative working capital
and shareholders  equity that raises substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going
concern. Management s plans in regards to these matters are also described in Note 2. The
financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this
uncertainty.

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 
March 22, 2004

Grant Thornton Auditores Independentes

F-3

Table of Contents   

BRAZIL FAST FOOD CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands of Brazilian Reais, except share amounts) 

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY (DEFICIT) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

BRAZIL FAST FOOD CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  
 (in thousands of Brazilian Reais, except share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

BRAZIL FAST FOOD CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)  
 (In thousands of Brazilian Reais) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 

F-6

Table of Contents   

BRAZIL FAST FOOD CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY (DEFICIT)
 
(In thousands of Brazilian Reais) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 

F-7

Table of Contents   

BRAZIL FAST FOOD CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  
 (In thousands of Brazilian Reais) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.

F-8

Table of Contents   

BRAZIL FAST FOOD CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 (In thousands of Brazilian reais) 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1  
       
      BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS  

Brazil Fast Food Corp. (the  Company ) was incorporated in the State of Delaware on
September 16, 1992. During 1996, the Company acquired (the  Acquisition )100% of the capital
of Venbo Comercio de Alimentos Ltda. ( Venbo ), a Brazilian limited liability company which
conducts business under the trade name  Bob s , owns and, directly and through franchisees,
operates a chain of hamburger fast food restaurants in Brazil. 

During the second half of 2004, Venbo established, in an association with a Brazilian
individual ( Associate ), a new company, Suprilog Transportadora Ltda ( Suprilog ).
Suprilog renders transportation services at usual market value to Venbo, to Bob s
franchisees and to other Brazilian companies. At the time of its constitution, Venbo paid
in 90% of Suprilog s Capital and the remaining 10% would be paid in by the Associate in no
later than a year. As of December 31, 2004, the Associate had not capitalized his share. In
the beginning of 2005, the associate reach an agreement with Venbo, by which he left the
joint venture and Venbo became sole-owner of Suprilog. 

During the last quarter of 2005, the contract with one of the main suppliers, Fast Food
Distributor Ltda. ( FBD    a non-affiliate company), expired. The renewal of this contract,
considered different basis form the previous one, including logistics and transportation
services. Because of such renewal, Venbo sold the main operating assets and liabilities of
Suprilog to FBD, and left the transportation business. As result of this transaction, the
Company recorded an operating gain of approximately $82 at the Consolidated Statement of
Operations of 2005. 

Suprilog s operated the transportation business until the end of November, 2005. Currently
the transportation is being provided by a third party. As of December, 31, 2005 Suprilog was
a non-operating company, and even though, its financial statements are being entirely
consolidated in the accompanying financial statements. 

2  
       
      MANAGEMENT PLANS REGARDING GOING CONCERN  

Since March 1996, the Company has sustained net losses totaling R$58,687, and at December
31, 2005, consolidated current liabilities exceed consolidated
current assets by R$4,371. 

To date, the Company has been dependent upon its initial capital, additional equity and debt
financing to fund the expansion of its operations. Currently, the Company has approximately
R$3,500 of unused credit line. 

F-9

Table of Contents   

Management plans to address its immediate and future cash flow needs by focusing on a number
of areas including: reduction of expenses including headcount optimization; the continued
expansion of its franchisee base, including sales of some company-owned stores to
franchisees, which will generate additional cash flows from royalties and franchise fees
without significant capital expenditure; the menu expansion to meet customer demand,
development of intensive training programs and other human resources investments. In order
to act on these plans and sustain current operations, the Company may be dependent upon the
continued forbearance of its creditors, as well as additional financing. 

There can be no assurance that management s plans will be realized, or that additional
financing will be available to the Company when needed, or at terms that are desirable.
Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to receive the
forbearance of its creditors, or that it will locate suitable new franchisees, or desirable
locations for new franchisees to open stores. The Company s ability to remarket
Company-owned stores to franchisees, and to generate cash flows from such activities, is
impacted by the ability to locate suitable buyers with the interest and capital to complete
such transactions, and by the time to complete such sales. Additionally, the Company s
ability to achieve its plans is further impacted by the instability of the economic
environment in Brazil, which has a direct impact on the desire and ability of consumers to
visit fast food outlets. The Company is also dependent upon the continued employment of key
personnel. 

The Acquisition s Purchase Agreement stated that Venbo s former owner ( VENDEX ) would be
responsible for off-balance liabilities derived from Venbo s transactions prior to the
Acquisition, up to 5% of the purchasing price. Through 1997 to date, the Company has been
receiving some communications from the Brazilian fiscal authorities related to the period
prior to the Acquisition. Those communications are always sent to Vendex and its attorneys.
Since the last months of 2004, the Company have been receiving several communications of tax
debts which amounts may exceed the above mentioned limit. 

The Company also received intimations to pay some tax debts of R$62 from the period prior to
the Acquisition, to which the company had to colateralize some of its properties. VENDEX
did not substitute such colateral by cash deposits or its own properties, as determined by
the Acquisition Purchase Agreement, because of its weak current financial condition. 

All demands are being defended by VENDEX attorneys, however the Company can not predict if
their outcome will result in liabilities that will reach the Company  s financial position. 

These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about the Company s ability to continue
as a going concern. 

3  
       
      SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP )  

These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States ( U.S. GAAP ). Such accounting
principles differ in certain respects from accounting principles generally accepted in
Brazil ( Brazilian GAAP ), which is applied by the Company for its annual consolidated
financial statement preparation. Unless otherwise specified, all references in these
financial statements to (i)  reais,  the  real  or  R$  are to the Brazilian  real 
(singular), or to the Brazilian  reais  (plural), the legal currency of Brazil, and (ii)  U.S.
dollars  or  $  are to United States dollars. 

F-10

Table of Contents   

Use of estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
from those estimates. 

Geographic area of operations  

The Company operates, directly and through franchisees, point of sales in all Brazilian
states (primarily in Rio de Janeiro and S o Paulo). The operation in Brazil is susceptible
to changes in Brazilian economic, political, and social conditions. Brazil has experienced
political, economic and social uncertainty in recent years, including an economic crisis
characterized by exchange rate instability and Real devaluation, increased inflation, high
domestic interest rates, negative economic growth, reduced consumer purchasing power and
high unemployment. Under its current leadership, the Brazilian government has been pursuing
economic stabilization policies, including the encouragement of foreign trade and investment
and an exchange rate policy of free market flotation. Despite the current improvement of
Brazilian economic environment, no assurance can be given that the Brazilian government will
continue to pursue these policies, that these policies will be successful if pursued or that
these policies will not be significantly altered. A decline in the Brazilian economy,
political or social problems or a reversal of Brazil s foreign investment policy is likely
to have an adverse effect on the Company s results of operations and financial condition.
Additionally, inflation in Brazil may lead to higher wages and salaries for employees and
increase the cost of raw materials, which would adversely affect the Company s
profitability. 

Risks inherent in foreign operations include nationalization, war, terrorism and other
political risks and risks of increases in foreign taxes or U.S. tax treatment of foreign
taxes paid and the imposition of foreign government royalties and fees. 

Principles of consolidation  

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly
owned (directly and indirectly) subsidiaries. All material intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 

Constant currency restatement  

Through June 30, 1997 the Brazilian economy was hyperinflationary as defined in Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No.52. The financial statements prior to that time
were comprehensively restated for the effects of inflation. After that date, inflation
restatement was not applied, however the non-monetary assets reflect the effects of
inflation through that date. 

F-11

Table of Contents   

Foreign currency  

Assets and liabilities recorded in functional currencies other than Brazilian Reais are
translated into Brazilian Reais at the prevailing exchange rate as reported by the Central
Bank of Brazil as of the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at the
weighted-average exchange rates for the year. The resulting translation adjustments are
charged or credited to other comprehensive income. Gains or losses from foreign currency
transactions, such as those resulting from the settlement of receivables or payables
denominated in foreign currency, are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations
as they occur. 

Cash and cash equivalents  

The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of
three months or less to be cash equivalents. 

Accounts receivable  

Accounts receivable consist primarily of receivables from food sales, franchise royalties
and assets sold to franchisees. 

As a rule, all invoices past due over 6 months and below the amount of R$5 K are
written-off. This criterion is recommended by the Brazilian tax authorities to determine
deductible expenses regarding the accounting judgment applied to the realization of account
receivables. We believe that this fiscal rule is conservative and perfectly applicable to
our business. Despite of writing-off those receivables on the accounting books, the finance
department keeps these records to conduct the commercial negotiations. 

In addition, the Company records a provision for doubtful receivables to allow for any
amounts which may be unrecoverable and is based upon an analysis of the Company s prior
collection experience, customer credit worthiness, and current economic trends. After all
attempts to collect a receivable have failed, the receivable is written off against the
allowance. 

Inventories  

Inventories, primarily consisting of food, beverages and supplies, are stated at the lower
of cost or replacement value. Cost of inventories is determined principally on the average
cost method. 

Property and equipment  

Property and equipment are stated at price-level adjusted cost, less price-level adjusted
accumulated depreciation through June 30, 1997. Depreciation on property and equipment is
provided using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives of the
related assets: 

F-12

Table of Contents   

Deferred charges 

Deferred charges, which relate to leasehold premiums paid in advance for rented outlet
premises are stated at price-level adjusted cost, less price-level adjusted accumulated
amortization until June 30, 1997. Leasehold premiums related to unprofitable stores were
written off.

The amortization periods, which range from 5 to 20 years, are the terms of management s
estimate of the related rental contracts including renewal options, which are solely at the
discretion of the Company.

Preopening costs 

Labor costs and the costs of hiring and training personnel and certain other costs relating
to the opening of new restaurants are expensed as incurred.

Revenue recognition 

Initial franchise fee revenue is recognized when all material services and conditions
relating to the franchise have been substantially performed or satisfied which normally
occurs when the restaurant is opened. Annual franchise fees based on a percentage of the
revenues of the franchisee are recognized when earned.

Amounts received from the Coca-Cola exclusivity agreements (see note 12) as well as amounts
received from other suppliers linked to exclusivity agreements are recorded as deferred
income and are being recognized on a straight line basis over the term of such agreements or
the related supply agreement. The Company accounts for other supplier exclusivity fees on a
straight-line basis over the related supply agreement.

Marketing expense, Marketing fund and Advertising expenses 

The Company recognizes its own advertising expense as incurred. Advertising expense,
including own and franchisee expenditures, was R$13,094, R$5,130 and R$4,168 for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The increase observed in 2005 is attributable to a change in the marketing policy
through which, since 2005, the Company is committed with its franchisees to (i) entirely use
the market fund received from them on marketing investments; and (ii) expend up to 4% of own
restaurant sales on marketing campaigns.

The balance of non-invested marketing fund as of December 31, 2005 amounts R$1,378 and is
recorded as accounts payable accrued expenses at the balance sheet. See notes 9 and 12
for additional discussion on this matter.

Stock options 

Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounts for awards granted to employees and directors
under Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees , under which no compensation cost was recognized for stock options granted. In
addition, as permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, the company
included its stock option compensations as a pro forma disclosure in notes of its financial
statements.

F-13

Table of Contents   

Accordingly, from January, 1 2005 to December 31, 2005 the Company was not required to
record stock-based compensation charges if the employee s stock option exercise price is
equal to or exceeds the fair value of the stock at the date of grant.

The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in this pro forma disclosure are not indicative of
future amounts.

All transactions with individuals other than those considered employees, as set forth within
the scope of APB No. 25, must be accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 123. During
2005, 2004 and 2003, no options were granted to outside consultants.

The weighted average fair value of options granted to the Board of Directors during 2003 was
$.31. During the last quarter of 2004, under the Company s Stock Option Plan, the
Compensation Committee granted options to purchase 32,500 shares with an average exercise
price of $.26, immediate vesting, and with weighted average fair value of $.237 using the
Black Scholes option pricing model. Such grant represents the compensation for the period
comprised from June, 2004 to May, 2005.

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black
Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants
in 2005 and 2003: (1) risk-free interest rate of 4.00% and 5.00%, respectively; (2) no
expected dividend yield; (3) expected lives of 5 years; and (4) expected stock price
volatility of 296% and 334%, respectively.

Income taxes 

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for
Income Taxes . Under the asset and liability method of SFAS No. 109, deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences
between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and
their respective tax basis and operating loss carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the
years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Under
SFAS No. 109, the effect of a change in tax rates or deferred tax assets and liabilities is
recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.

F-14

Table of Contents   

Long-lived and intangibles assets 

The Company adopted SFAS No. 144, which requires that long-lived assets being disposed of be
measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell, whether reported
in continuing operations or in discontinued operations.

If an indicator of impairment (e.g., negative operating cash flows for the most recent
trailing twelve-month period) exists for any grouping of assets, an estimate of undiscounted
future cash flows produced by each restaurant within the asset grouping is compared to its
carrying value. If any asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured by the
excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value as determined by an estimate
of discounted future cash flows.

Net income (loss) per common share 

The Company applies SFAS No. 128, in the calculation of earnings per share. Under this
standard, Basic EPS is computed based on weighted average shares outstanding and excludes
any potential dilution; Diluted EPS reflects potential dilution from the exercise or
conversion of securities into common stock or from other contracts to issue common stock.
There were no common share equivalents outstanding as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
that would have had a dilutive effect on earnings for those respective years.

Recently issued accounting standards 

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151,
 Inventory Costs . This statement requires that certain costs such as idle facility expense,
excessive spoilage, double freight, and re-handling costs be recognized as current-period
charges and that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be
based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of the statements
should be effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June
15,2005. Adoption of this statement had no impact on the Company s financial condition,
results of operations, or cash flows.

In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Statement Accounting Standards No. 154,
 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections-a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB
Statement No. 3  ( SFAS 154 ). This Statement replaces APB Opinion No. 20,  Accounting
Changes,  and FASB Statement No. 3,  Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial
Statements.  SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods  financial
statements for changes in accounting principle, unless it is impractical to determine either
the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS 154 also requires
that a change in depreciation, amortization, or depletion method for long, non-financial
assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate effected by a change in
accounting principle. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors
made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company believes that adoption
of the provisions of SFAS 154 will not have a material effect on the Company s Consolidated
financial statements.

F-15

Table of Contents   

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,  Share-based Payment.  SFAS No. 123R is a
revision of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock Based Compensation , and supersedes APB 25.
Among other items, SFAS 123R eliminates the use of APB 25 and the intrinsic value method of
accounting, and requires companies to recognize the cost of employee Services received in
exchange for awards of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those
awards, in the financial statements. The effective date of SFAS I23R is January l, 2006, for
calendar year companies.

SFAS 123R permits companies to adopt its requirements using either a  modified prospective 
method, or a  modified retrospective  method. Under the  modified prospective  method,
compensation cost recognized in the financial statements beginning with the effective date,
based on the requirements of SFAS 123R for all share-based payments granted after that date,
and based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for all unvested awards granted prior to the
effective date of SFAS 123R. Under the  modified retrospective  method, the requirements are
the same as under the  modified prospective  method, but also permits entities to restate
financial statements of previous periods based on proforma disclosures made in accordance
with SFAS 123.

Reclassifications 

The consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 have
been reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.

F-16

Table of Contents   

5  
       
      OTHER CURRENT ASSETS, OTHER RECEIVABLES AND OTHER ASSETS  

Other assets consist of the following:

Other current assets:  

Other receivable and other assets:  

(a) 
       
     Receivables derived from both exclusivity and rebates agreements with the Company s
suppliers; 

(b) 
       
     Short term receivables from franchisees developed from rights other than royalties and
sale of assets and receivables derived from transaction discussed at note 1; 

(c) 
       
     Long term portion of receivables derived from selling of restaurants to franchisees; 

(d) 
       
     Deposits required by Brazilian court in connection to some of legal disputes, also
discussed at note 12; 

F-17

Table of Contents   

6  
       
      PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET  

Property and equipment consists of the following: 

During the third quarter of 2004, the Company acquired the rights of leasing agreements
related to trucks and truck equipments in order to establish Venbo s subsidiary, Suprilog.
During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company sold those rights to FBD (see note 1).

7  
       
      DEFERRED CHARGES, NET  

Deferred charges consists of the following: 

During 2004, the Company wrote down leasehold premiums related to stores which were
either closed or sold to franchisees.

During 2005, the Company adjusted some of its leasehold premiums related to stores in order
to achieve their fair value.

F-18

Table of Contents   

8  
       
      NOTES PAYABLE  

Notes payable consists of the following: 

(a) 
       
     Credit facilities from related parties, including company and private
individuals. Repayment of principal is indexed to IGP-M (currently at 2.38% per
annum) with interest of 12.0% per annum. Those transactions were made at usual market
value and were repaid during the last quarter of 2005. 

(b) 
       
     Comprised of credit facility from a Brazilian private financial institution,
guaranteed by certain officers and receivables. Principal and the interests of 34.89%
per annum are due in four monthly installments ending April 2006. Currently, the
Company has approximately R$3,500 of unused credit line. 

(c) 
       
     This credit facility was used to purchase two stores. Repayment of principal is
due in ten monthly installments of R$53, ending July 2006, in addition of one payment
of R$488 on January 2006. There is no interest charged on these borrowings. Principal
is indexed to Brazilian inflation measured by IGP-M. This facility is secured by the
fixed assets purchased. 

(d) 
       
      This amount is comprised of 9 different lease facilities with Brazilian private
institutions which were related to the logistics and distribution operations. This
portion of business was sold during the last quarter and the company which acquired
such business assumed the balance of those debts (see note 1). 

The carrying amount of notes payable approximates fair value at December 31, 2005 and
2004 because they are at market interest rates.

F-19

Table of Contents   

9  
       
      ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES  

Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following: 

10  
       
      CASH FLOW INFORMATION  

Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information: 

(i)Interest and income tax: 

11  
       
      TAXATION  

Tax losses through December 31, 2005 relating to income tax were R$40,506 and to social
contribution tax were R$41,363. Social contribution tax is a Brazilian tax levied on
taxable income and is by its nature comparable to corporate income tax. 

The accumulated tax loss position can be offset against future taxable income. Brazilian
tax legislation restricts the offset of accumulated tax losses to 30% of taxable profits on
an annual basis. These losses can be used indefinitely and are not impacted by a change in
ownership of the Company. 

F-20

Table of Contents   

The following is a reconciliation of the amount of reported income tax benefit and the
amount computed by applying the combined statutory tax rate of 34% to the loss before income
taxes:

Differences between taxable results in Brazil and reported results are primarily due to
accrued expenses that are only deductible when paid, such as contingencies. Differences
between Brazilian GAAP and U.S. GAAP also result on reconcile of reported income tax.

The following summarizes the composition of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the
related valuation allowance at December 31, 2005 and 2004, based on temporary differences
and tax loss carryforwards determined by applying rates of 9% for social contribution tax
and 25% for income tax.

The valuation allowance reflects the Company s assessment of the likelihood of realizing
the net deferred tax assets in view of current operations and the Company s recurring consolidated
net losses.

F-21

Table of Contents   

12  
       
      COMMITMENTS AND LITIGATION  

a) Operating leases  

The future minimum lease payments under operating leases with an initial or remaining
noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year at December 31, 2005 are as follows: 

Rent expense was R$6.499, R$6,199, and R$5,492 for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004, and 2003, respectively.

b) Other commitments 

The Company has long term contracts (5 to 10 years) with all of its franchisees. Under
these contracts the franchisee has the right to use the Bob s name and formulas in a
specific location or area. The Company has no specific financial obligations in respect of
these contracts.

The Company has a supply agreement with the Brazilian subsidiary of Coca-Cola, which was
amended during 2000, in order to enhance and extend the original exclusivity term to March,
2008 (an additional two years from the original agreement).

c) Reassessed taxes and Contingencies 

Reassessed taxes 

During 1999, 2001 and in the beginning of 2002 certain Brazilian State and Federal taxes
levied on the Company were not paid. In addition during 2002, Brazilian Social Security
Authorities applied penalties against the Company, by charging certain operating
transactions not covered by the Company s previous calculation of Social Security
contributions. Those debts were renegotiated in different moments and with different levels
of Brazilian Government.

Since June 2002, the Company has paid all its current taxes on a timely basis.

F-22

Table of Contents   

The tax debt evolution and their current status are summarized as follows:

State tax   value added 

Since the second quarter of 2000, the Company has been reaching a sequence of
agreements with the Rio de Janeiro state government to make installments on those unpaid
taxes. The last agreement with the Rio de Janeiro state government was settled during the
third quarter of 2004, through which the Company sold one of its properties in exchange of
(a) a sum in cash; (b) the waiver of the balance of the unpaid state tax that were being
paid in installments according to previous agreements; (c) tax credits which compensated tax
on revenues accounted for during the last quarter of 2004.

During the last agreement, a portion of the Company state tax liability was not
recognized by the fiscal authorities and another portion is being recalculated by them.

During 2005, fiscal authorities computed some portions of the debt and the Company paid
all of them, at the amount of approximately R$682. The entire consolidation of the remaining
debt is not expected to be computed during 2006, and accordingly the Company accrued such
portion, according to its estimates, as long term liability. The remaining debt is annually
restated by interest rates set by the Rio de Janeiro State Government, currently 5.8% per
year.

Federal taxes   PAES 

Concerning the unpaid Federal taxes and the Social Security penalties, the Company
applied to join and was accepted into two subsequent amnesty programs offered by the
Brazilian Federal government (REFIS during 1999 and PAES during 2003).

The second amnesty program (PAES) included the balance of the previous Federal tax
amnesty program (REFIS) and unpaid 2001 and 2002 federal tax, as well as the Social Security
penalties. The total debt included in such program is being paid in monthly installments
equivalent to 1.5% of the Company s gross sales, with interest accruing at rates set by the
Brazilian Federal government, which were 9.75% during 2005 and currently are 9.0% per year.

All installments related to those programs have been paid on a timely basis.

During 2005, the Company paid approximately R$1,522 related to such Brazilian Federal
tax amnesty program, including R$148 of interests.

In February 2005, the Company compared its remaining debt regarding PAES with
statements provided by the Brazilian Federal Government. Those statements reported that
Company s total debt would be greater than the figures in the Company s balance sheet, in
the amount of approximately R$3,170. In result of that comparison, the Company processed a
retroactive adjustment on its balance sheet at December, 31 2004.

F-23

Table of Contents   

During March, 2005, the Company filed a formal request with the Brazilian Federal
Authorities, claiming to have its total debt reviewed. Such request, reconciles the amounts
the Company had accrued at its accounting books (prior to the retroactive adjustment) to the
amounts reported in the official statement at the same period. In connection with such
request, and based on the Company s legal advisors, a portion of that amount (R$809) was
reversed during the first quarter of 2005. The Company believes that the amounts accrued at
the balance sheet as of December 31,2005 are correct, however, there is no assurance that
the outcome of this situation will derive further liability to the Company. As of December
31, 2005, the difference between such            debt at the statements provided by the Brazilian
Federal Government and the statements reported by the Company s was R$3,903. The difference
increase from 2004 to 2005 is due to monetary restatement and interest.

Contingencies 

Leasing litigation 

During 2001, the Company claimed in Brazilian court that their lease financing
contracts with IBM Leasing should not have their principal amounts indexed to the US dollar,
but instead stated in Brazilian Reais bearing interest of 12% per annum. While awaiting the
court s determination, the Company has deposited all installment payments due under its
lease financing agreements with the court in reais, inclusive of 12% per annum interest. The
installment payments ceased on November, 2002, the end of the contract term. Despite the
Company s claim that it owes the lower amounts, the Company has accrued the full contracted
amounts as of December 31, 2005.

ISS tax litigation 

ISS is a tax charged by Brazilian cities on services rendered by Brazilian companies.

None of the Company s revenues were subject to such tax until 2003. However, in the
beginning of 2004 a new ISS legislation has been implemented and according to it, royalty
fees should be included on the basis of ISS calculation.

The Company s Management is claiming in court that royalty fees should not be considered as
a service rendered and therefore should not be taxed by ISS.

While awaiting the court s determination, the Company is depositing monthly with the court
the amount claimed by ISS. In addition, the Company has accrued the claimed amounts as of
December 31, 2005.

The referred change in the ISS tax regulations motivated deep debates whether marketing
funds paid by franchisees would be considered as service rendered by the ISS tax
authorities.

The Company, together with its tax advisors, is adopting measures in order to avoid the
charge of ISS against the marketing funds.

See notes 2 and 9 for additional discussion on this matter.

F-24

Table of Contents   

Other litigations 

Other litigations is mainly comprised of labor contingencies at the amount of R$1,335 and
ICMS tax contingencie at the amount of R$750.

During 2005, we were condemned to pay a fine of R$480 to a former employee. This
amount is not frequent in labor processes, due both to low wages of our store employees and high
turn over of the majority of them.

ICMS Rio de Janeiro and S o Paulo   ICMS is a value added tax Venbo pays regularly since May
2002. Every debt registered as of May 2002 has been paid and the Company has not incurred in new
past due debt since then. This tax is paid to the Governments of Rio de Janeiro and S o Paulo
states and to the Federal District (Bras lia). Each month the company sends an electronically
report    SINTEGRA - to the Government fiscal authorities, which includes several forms relating to
sales and sale expenses coming from the own stores.

In August 2005, the fiscal authorities of Rio de Janeiro, and later on the S o Paulo
authorities, compelled the company to submit form 60, one of SINTERGA s forms, in a compact disc
(CD) with 4 years month figures corresponding to two stores. A technical difficulty was found and
the company couldn t fulfill the requirement. As a consequence, the company was penalized in Rio de
Janeiro with a R$750,000 fine, duly registered in the balance sheet. The company appealed to the
Courts claiming the information required was not a primary obligation but an accessory obligation,
hence the amount inflicted was not in accordance with the nature of the fault. If this fine were to
be applied to all of our own and operated stores, the amount could reach several millions of Reais
(R$). We hope to negotiate this matter with the authorities both in Rio de Janeiro and S o Paulo to
avoid a major problem, find a solution for the future magnetic registers and pay a reasonable fine
for the past due registrations we will not be able to recover.

Liabilities related to tax amnesty programs and litigation consist of the following:

The Company has other litigations which were not accrued as liability as of December 31,
2005, due to a low risk classification as per as Company  s attorneys.

The most relevant of those litigations is the one related to one franchisee which has
filed a lawsuit against the Company, through which he blames the Company for his unsuccessful

F-25

Table of Contents   

franchise operation. The franchisee became a permanent debtor of royalty and marketing
contributions. After failing on efforts applied to improve his business, the Company finally
decided to interrupt the franchise contract and closed the stores explored by this franchisee.
The franchisee has the understanding that the franchiser should be considered responsible for
having offered the operation of a store with guaranteed profitability. Even if this argument is
completely against the franchise laws and the usual practices of our business, it is not
impossible that this franchisee may succeed in convincing a jury or a judge that some indemnity
or compensation must be paid by the Company. The Company  s legal advisors believe that the
franchisees demand is based on a principle that is against the basis of the franchise way of
operation.

13  
       
      SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY  

Common Stock 

The table below states issued, treasury and outstanding shares of common stock:

Preferred stock 

The Board of Directors of the Company is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue
up to 5,000 shares of  blank check  preferred stock (the  Preferred Stock ) with dividend,
liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting
power or other rights of the holders of the Company s common stock. As of December 31,
2005, no Preferred Stock had been issued.

Private placements 

On August 15, 2003 options to purchase an aggregate of 23,750 shares of common stock were
exercised, having an aggregate purchase price of $4,512.50 equivalent to R$14.

On December 20, 2004, Bigburger Ltda. and CCC Empreendimentos e Participa  es Ltda.completed
a total buyout of AIG Latin America Equity Partners  375,000 share position in Brazil Fast
Food. This buyout nullifies the pre-existing shareholders agreements, which granted AIG
certain rights over Brazil Fast Food s administration, and increases the collective share of
Bigburger and CCC in Brazil Fast Food by about five percent to approximately 60 percent of
the Company s common stock.

F-26

Table of Contents   

Stock repurchase plan 

During the last quarter of 2004, the Company s Board of Directors approved a stock
repurchase plan covering the repurchase of as many as 200,000 shares of its own common
stock. The plan goal is to optimize the cash generated in the United States. Originally the
repurchase plan defined that the maximum price would be $0.60 per share, however, it has
been amended and currently there is no maximum repurchase price.

During 2005, the Company repurchased a total amount of 101,900 shares, under the referred
stock repurchase plan. The Company s total disbursement for these transactions totaled to
R$216 and was accounted for as a deduction of Paid in Capital, in the Shareholders  Equity
(Deficit) section of the accompanying balance sheets.

Services provided in exchange of common shares 

In May, 2002 the Company entered into an agreement requiring the Company to retain the
services of either Ricardo Bomeny, or an entity of which he is a principal, to manage
the Company s subsidiary day-to-day operations for a term of two years. For such
services the consultant will receive 20,000 shares of the Company s common stock for each
of the first twelve months of such two-year term, a sum in cash for the second twelve
months and an additional 260,000 shares at the end of the two-year term conditioned upon
the attainment of specified targets.

In May, 2004, Ricardo Bomeny requested CCC Empreendimentos e Participa  es to receive
250,000 shares of the additional 260,000 shares due to him.

During 2004 the Company charged R$283 (R$118 in 2003) to operating results related to those
services. Such amounts are a result of number of shares owed multiplied by their average
fair value.

Also in connection with those services, in 2004 and 2003 260,000 and 240,000 shares of
common stock were incorporated to Additional Paid in Capital, respectively.

Shares granted to Venbo employees and shares adjustments 

During 2001, the board of Directors approved a grant of 35,000 shares to Venbo top
management. This grant of share has not been accounted for during that year, and at December
31, 2004 the company adjusted its common stock to reflect such transaction.
Correspondingly, at December 31, 2004 the Company charged R$36 to operating results related
to those grant of shares. Such amount is a result of number of shares granted, multiplied by
their fair value.

In addition, during 2004, the Company adjusted its number of shares stated at
Consolidated statements of changes in shareholders  equity (deficiency) in a total of
637 shares. Such adjustment corrected            a miscalculation for the Company s reversal split
of shares accounted for during 1999.

F-27

Table of Contents   

Stock option plan 

On September 18, 1992, the Company s Board of Directors and a majority of the shareholders
of the Company approved the 1992 Stock Option Plan (the  Plan ).

During 1998, the Board of Directors approved an increase in options available for grant
under the Plan from 500,000 to 1,000,000.

The Plan, as amended and restated, authorized the granting of awards, the exercise of which
would allow up to an aggregate of 1,000,000 shares of the Company s common stock to be
acquired by the holders of said awards. The awards can take the form of Incentive Stock
Options ( ISOs ) or Non-Qualified Stock Options ( NQSOs ). Options might be granted to
employees, directors and consultants. ISOs and NQSOs are granted in terms not to exceed ten
years and become exercisable as set forth when the award is granted. Options may be
exercised in whole or in part. The exercise price of the ISOs must be at least equal to the
fair market price of the Company s common stock on the date of grant or in the case of a
plan participant who is granted an option price of at least 110% of the fair market value on
the date of grant, the option must be exercised within five years from the date of grant.
The exercise price of all NQSOs granted under the Plan should be determined by the Board of
Directors of the Company at the time of grant.

During the last quarter of 2004, under the Company s Stock Option Plan, the Compensation
Committee granted options to purchase 32,500 shares with an average exercise price of $.26,
immediate vesting, and valued at average fair value of $7,703 using the Black Scholes option
pricing model. Such grant represents the compensation for the period comprised from June,
2004 to May, 2005.

During 2005, the the Company s Board of Directors and a majority of the shareholders of the
Company decided that Board compensation would be paid in cash and that no more stock options
will be granted. The provisions set by the Plan are still valid for all vesting options
until the last option grant (November, 2004).

On December 16, 2005 options to purchase an aggregate of 26,250 shares of common stock were
exercised, having an aggregate purchase price of $7,612.50 equivalent to R$18.

There were 10,500 options canceled and 170,000 shares have expired during the twelve
months ended December 31, 2005, under the Company s Stock Option Plan.

All options are immediately vesting. Option activity for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 is summarized as follows:

F-28

Table of Contents   

The options outstanding at December 31, 2005, range in price from $0.26 per share to
$2.876 per share and have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.55 year.

14 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES) 

Other income (expenses) consist of the following:

15 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES 

Among all 386 franchised point of sales ( POS ), 22 stores are franchised with CCC Empreendimentos
Ltda. and 28 stores are franchised with Big Buger Ltda (or affiliate). Both enterprises are
Company s shareholders. All franchise transactions with those related parties are made at usual
market value and at December 31, 2005 the Company account receivables included R$393 (R$367 in
2004) related to them.

F-29

Table of Contents   

16 SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA 

F-30

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX  

Exhibit Index 
       
     Description 

3.1

Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended (1)  

3.2

By-laws of the Registrant  (2)  

4.1*

Capitalization and Administrative
Restructuring Intentions Protocol dated May 15, 2002 

10.1

Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Option Plan  (2)  

10.2

Capitalization and Administrative Restructuring Intentions Protocol
dated May 15, 2002 by and among Brazil Fast Food Corp., Gustavo Figueredo Bomeny,
CCC Emprendimentos e Participacoes Ltda., BigBurger Ltda., Jose Ricardo Bousquet
Bomeny, Omar Carneiro da Cunha, Seaview Venture Group, Peter van Voorst Vader and
Shampi Investments A.E.C.  (3)  

21.1

Subsidiaries of Registrant  (4)  

24.1

Power of Attorney (comprises a portion of the signature page of this
report) 

31.1*

Certification by Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny, Chief Executive Officer
and Acting Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 

32.1*

Certification by Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny, Chief Executive Officer
and Acting Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 

99.1

Certifying Statement of the Chief Executive Officer and Acting Chief
Financial Officer pursuant to Section 1350 of the Title 18 of the United States
Code. 

75

<EX-4.1>
 2
 g00198exv4w1.htm
 CAPITIZATION AND ADMINISTRATIVE RESTRUCTURING INTENTIONS PROTOCOL

exv4w1 

EXHIBIT 4.1 

This is an English translation of a document 
that was written in the Portuguese language

Capitalization and Administrative Restructuring Intentions Protocol ( Protocol ), in the form
below:

By and between the parties that have signed at the end of this instrument ( Parties ),

Whereas:

a) 
       
     The Parties are stockholders of Brazil Fast Food Corporation ( BFFC ), controller of
Venbo Comercio de Alimentos Ltda. ( Venbo  

b) 
       
     The Parties agree that the following measures must be taken imperatively and urgently: 

(i) 
       
     Inject resources into Venbo, by means of a prior increase of BFFC capital; 

(ii) 
       
     Proceed with certain modifications in Venbo s administration, and,
therefore, adjust the composition of the BFFC Board of Directors; 

(iii) 
       
     In order to avoid that Venbo s situation becomes unsustainable, immediately
place resources at Venbo s disposal, even before proceeding with the administrative
and legal measures intended to perfect and consolidate the agreement reached between
the Parties. 

(c) 
       
     Bigburger Ltda. ( Bigburger ), or the physical person or company that it may nominate, and
CCC Empreendimentos e Participacoes Ltda. (jointly  Investors ), hereby accept the
advancement of the resources referred-to in item b (i) above, in the assumption and
confidence that this instrument s stipulations will be complied with and implemented by the
Parties; 

d) 
       
     The Parties, exercising their right to vote in BFFC, as well as through their influence
with the BFFC Board of Directors and Venbo s administration, will adopt all the measures,
and they will sign all the agreements and documents required for the legal execution of the
agreements made herein, 

They hereby resolve to:

1. 
       
     Capitalization. 

1.1 
       
     The Investors, in the proportion of half each, and upon subscription of the shares regulated below, agree to provide BFFC with capital, for the subsequent
injection of resources into Venbo, in the amount of R$5,000,000.00 (five million
Reais), during the first provision, and, for the second provision, the amount in Reais
that corresponds to US$ 850,000.00 (eight hundred and fifty thousand US Dollars) at
the time of the second provision, to be converted using the exchange rate equivalent
to the PTAX average rate for commercial Dollars, published by the Banco Central do
Brasil. 

1.2 
       
     In order to comply with the stipulations in item 1.1 above, there will be two
provisions, as follows: 

1.2.1 
       
     First provision: BFFC, exercising its legal statutory
prerogatives, will issue, in favor of the Investors, within 10 days of each
provision or advancement of resources, a total of 2,5000,000 common shares,
half for each Investor and in proportion with the incoming recourses, at the
subscription price of R$ 2.00 (two Reais) per pair, for a total of R$
5,000,000.00 (five million Reais); 

1.2.2 
       
     Second provision: Within 30 days of the last installment of
the first provision or advancement of resources, regulated in item 1.2.1,
complying with the proportions stipulated in this item, as regulated in 1.3
below, BFFC will issue 850,000 common shares, at the subscription price per
pair in Reais corresponding to US$ 1.00 (one US Dollar). 

1.3 
       
     In view of Venbo s urgent necessity, and on BFFC s account and order, the
Investors will directly advance Venbo, within 48 hours, from the total mentioned in
item 1.2.1 above, the amount of R$ 2,000,000.00 (two million Reais), and the remaining
balance will be of R$ 3,000,000.00 (three million Reais) to be paid within 30 days of
the advance installment: the Investors may, at their own discretion, advance other
provision amounts regulated in the items 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 above. 

2. 
       
     Quorum in the Annual Stockholders Meeting or in the Board of Directors Meetings (according to
each agency s jurisdiction). 

2.1 
       
     The Parties agree that the majority of the votes held by the Parties will
decide the direction of the Parties  vote in the BFFC Annual Stockholders Meetings
regarding the following matters: 

a) 
       
     Increasing the authorized capital stock; 

b) 
       
     Reducing the capital stock, redemption and amortization of stock; 

c) 
       
     Creation/issue of any class of shares or conversion; 

d) 
       
     BFFC modification and administrative structure, including in terms
of (i) number of members on the Board of Directors and the Direction, and (ii)
procedures and criteria for electing their respective members; and 

e) 
       
     Broadening or reducing BFFC s company purpose; 

f) 
       
     Creation or alteration of the obligatory dividend; 

g) 
       
     Dissolution, liquidation, composition with creditors or bankruptcy,
or any other voluntary or court-ordered financial restructuring procedures or
processes; 

h) 
       
     Incorporation, by BFFC, of other companies or part of the property of
other companies, merger, transformation, split or any other form of partnership
restructuring; 

i) 
       
     Going private, public or private issue of any securities, including
benefiting parties, debentures or subscription bonuses; 

j) 
       
     Approval of BFFC business investment plans,  Business Plan  and their
possible alterations, as well as annual and semi-annual budgets, and their
possible alterations; 

l) 
       
     Acquisition, disposition, liquidation, disposal, transference or
burdening of any nature of any property that is part of the permanent assets in
an amount greater than the equivalent in Reais, isolated or cumulative, to US$
50,000.00 (fifty thousand US Dollars); 

m) 
       
     BFFC s association, in any manner, with other companies, including
the formation of consortiums, creation of subsidiaries, as well as participation
in other companies; 

n) 
       
     BFFC entering into any contract or transaction, of any nature, with
either of the Parties, or any company, directly or indirectly controlled by BFFC,
or company that holds, directly or indirectly, majority shares in BFFC; 

o) 
       
      Signing any agreement, document, instrument related to investments,
loans, granting of guarantees of any nature benefiting either of the Parties, and
the assuming of any obligations in BFFC s name that exceed, in Reais, isolated or
cumulative, US$ 50,000.00 (fifty thousand US Dollars); 

p) 
       
     Acquisition, amortization or redemption by BFFC of shares it issued,
as well as the acquisition of shares to cancel or reserve in the treasury, and
their later resale; 

q) 
       
     Approval of share option plans for administrators, employees or third
parties, and the attribution to third parties (including administrators and
employees) in BFFC profit or income sharing; 

r) 
       
     Instituting of any administrative or legal proceedings, instituting
of arbitration proceedings or another form settling extra-judicial litigation, or
BFFC contesting litigation that involves an amount over the equivalent in Reais,
isolated or cumulative, to US$ 50,000.00 (fifty thousand US Dollars); 

s) 
       
     Approval of BFFC s financial statements and the annual Directors 
reports; 

t) 
       
     Adoption of strategies by BFFC before any governmental agencies and
possible changes of position; 

u) 
       
     Deliberation and voting on any matter in any company in which BFFC
holds stock. 

2.2 
       
     In order to comply with the stipulations in item 2.1 above, BFFC s
stockholders that are Parties in this Protocol will meet beforehand, a minimum of 10
days prior to each BFFC Annual Stockholders Meeting, in order to decide in which
direction to vote in this meeting. 

2.3 
       
     BFFC s issue of shares of any kind or class, subscription bonus, option,
debentures or any securities, as well as the establishment of negotiations, accords or
treaties on any level relating to possible third party interests in the
subscription or purchase of said securities, will depend o the deliberations described
in item 2.1 of the above heading. 

3. 
       
     Board of Directors. 

3.1 
       
     Following the integral capitalization regulated in the items 1.1 and 1.3
above, the Parties will exercise their right to vote in BFFC so that the 5 members
of the Board of Directors, the right to nomination of which is held by the Parties,
under the terms of the Stockholders Agreement signed on August 11, 1997, are
elected according to stockholders  following nomination: 

a) 
       
     Bigburger Ltda.   1 position 

b) 
       
     Investors   2 positions (however they jointly nominate) 

c) 
       
     Omar Carneiro da Cunha   1 position 

d) 
       
     Lawrence Burstein   1 position 

3.2 
       
     The Chairman of the Board of Directors ( Chairman ) will be nominated as
stipulated in item 2.1 above, and will hold the casting vote, meaning that 

his/her vote will prevail in the event of a tie during the voting on matters
submitted to the Board of Directors  deliberation. 

4. 
       
     Venbo Administration. 

4.1 
       
     BFFC will contract, in favor of Venbo, the services of Mr. Ricardo
Figueiredo Bomeny and/or the company connected to him, for a period of two years,
upon the established remuneration of, (i) exclusively in terms of the first year of
service, 20,000 common shares per month, and (ii) for the second year, the
amount in Reais that they agree upon, according to Venbo s usual standards, with the
conditional payment of 260,000 common shares, the latter subject to attaining certain
goals, as described in section A of this Protocol. 

4.1.1 
       
     In order to permit the adequate performing of services, Mr.
Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny will be nominated Venbo s non-statutory
Director-Superintendent, with the prerogatives and responsibilities pertaining
to the sectors attributed to him and under his responsibility, duly listed in
the flow chart in Annex B of this Protocol, and detailed in an internal
system to be elaborated and approved by the majority referred- to in item
2.1 above. 

4.2 
       
     Mr. Peter Van Voorst Vader ( Peter ) commits himself to remain in the
positions he holds in BFFC and Venbo for at least one more year as of this date, and
may only be dismissed upon deliberation taken as per item 2.1 above. 

4.3 
       
     Without loss to the stipulations in item 4.2 above, Peter may resign from his
functions as long as he justifies his decision based on specific acts and
deliberations by Venbo s Direction that he considers to be violators of the law. 

5. 
       
     Definitive Execution. 

5.1 
       
     In order for all the measures stipulated in this Protocol to be carried
out, the Parties are bound to sign all the agreements and documents, and take all the
measures required, such as, example, stockholders agreements, subscription agreements,
consultancy and assessory service agreements and any others that may be necessary. 

6. 
       
     Strict legality. 

6.1 
       
     All acts, actions, deliberations and measures, of a partnership or
administrative nature, to be adopted by BFFC and Venbo by the Parties, in accordance
with the stipulations contained in this Protocol, will only be demandable if there is
no violation to the applicable laws and the rights of third parties, especially
regarding rights deriving from the Stockholders Agreement signed on August 11, 1997. 

Now, therefore, the parties hereto sign this instrument in 4 (four) copies of equal form and
content, before the two undersigned witnesses.

Rio de Janeiro, May 15, 2002.

Brazil Fast Food Corporation

Bigburger Ltda. 

Participa  es Ltda.

CCC Empreendimentos e 

Omar Carneiro da Cunha

Seaview Venture Group 

Peter van Voorst Vader

Shampi Investments A.E.C. 

Jose Ricardo Bosquet Bomeny 

Witnesses:

ANNEX A

GOALS MENTIONED IN CLAUSE 4.1

For the effects of clause 4.1, the following goals agreed-to herein must be achieved by the end of
the new administration s fiscal first year.

1. 
       
     Reduction of 15% (fifteen percent) in the total sum of the financial debt standing on the
date of the signing of the Protocol. This reduction signifies ending the new
administration s first fiscal year with a total debt of less than 19 (nineteen) million
Reais. 

2. 
       
     The positive Operating Cash Balance should reach, by the last month of the period stipulated
for the goals, the cumulative amount of R$ 4,500,000.00 (four million, five hundred thousand
Reais). This concept is referred-to in the financial documents issued by VENBO s present
administration, as Operating Cash Balance. 

3. 
       
     A reduction of 15% (fifteen percent) of the Administrative Expenses (concept in accordance
with the nomenclature currently used by BFFC s Board of Directors, including Franchise and
Sales expenses) by the last month of the new administration s first fiscal year, in reference
to the last month of a full calendar year of the present administration. 

EXCEPTIONS. The goals described above will expire, to the effects of clause 4.1 in the Protocol of
which this Annex A is an integral part, if one of the events below is confirmed during the new
administration s first year:

a) 
       
     If the Real is devaluated, in reference to the US Dollar, by more than 10% (ten percent) of
the currency value on the date that the protocol was signed, and if this continues for a
period of over 3 (three) consecutive months. 

b) 
       
     If the SELIC interest rates go beyond the point of 18.5% percent per annum for a period of
over 3 (three) consecutive months. 

c) 
       
     If the average monthly retail performance index published by the IBGE, calculated based on
the 12 (twelve) months of the new administration, falls more than two percentage points in
reference to the average of the last 12 (twelve) months of the present administration. 

In the event that any of the events described above occurs, new goals must then be agreed-to for
the new one-year period of the new administration. Should the parties not arrive at an agreement
by the first month of this new period, the matter must be submitted to a decision by the BFFC Board
of Directors.

</EX-4.1>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 g00198exv31w1.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO & CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CEO & CFO Certification 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Brazil Fast Food Corp.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this Annual Report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this annual report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this Annual Report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
Annual Report; 

4. 
       
     I am responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(E) and 15d-15(E)) for the registrant and I have: 

(a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this annual report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

(c) 
       
     disclosed in this annual report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
fiscal year that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent function): 

(a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over
financial reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006  
     /s/ Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny

Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny  

Chief Executive Officer and Acting Chief Financial 
Officer  

76

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 4
 g00198exv32w1.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO

Section 906 Certification of CEO and CFO 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Brazil Fast Food Corp. (the  Company ) for
the period ended December 31, 2005, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Form 10-K ), I, Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny, Chief Executive Officer and Acting
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

1. 
       
     The Accompanying Annual Report on Form 10-K for the annual period ended December 31, 2006
fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended; and 

2. 
       
     The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: March 31, 2006  
     /s/ Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny

Ricardo Figueiredo Bomeny  

Chief Executive Officer and Acting Chief Financial 
Officer  

77

</EX-32.1>

