<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060330_10-K_edgar_data_915781_0000950134-06-006265_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1277127</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>250409</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>42406</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>667017</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>83</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-006265.hdr.sgml : 20060330
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060330152745
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-006265
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060330
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060330

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			RTW INC /MN/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000915781
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				411440870
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-25508
		FILM NUMBER:		06722960

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8500 NORMANDALE LAKE BLVD
		STREET 2:		STE 1400
		CITY:			BLOOMINGDALE
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55437
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6128930403

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8500 NORMANDALE LAKE BLVD
		STREET 2:		STE 1400
		CITY:			BLOOMINGTON
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55437

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Q51GjzSc9EYgaIQBTydZqR968Yrms+YJaZEvDoITNdNATB0t796N8ELD2Zi8i0KF
 nUVkanBosgHxFcPLZ2KUVQ==

 0000950134-06-006265.txt : 20060330

10-K
 1
 c03761e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D. C. 20549 

Form  10-K  

Commission file number: 0-25508 

RTW, INC. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Minnesota 

41-1440870  

(State or other jurisdiction 
    of incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

8500 Normandale Lake Boulevard, Suite 1400 

Bloomington, MN 55437 

(Address of principal executive offices and zip code) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:
(952) 893-0403 

Securities registered pursuant to 12(b) of the Act: None 

Securities registered pursuant to 12(g) of the Act: 

Common Stock, no par value Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known,
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation  S-K  is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this
Form  10-K  or any
amendment to this
Form  10-K:        

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated
filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule  12b-2) 

Large accelerated
filer         Accelerated
filer         Non-accelerated
filer   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in Exchange Act
Rule  12b-2)      Yes              No   

As of March 10, 2006, 5,454,000 shares of Common
Stock, no par value, were outstanding. As of June 30, 2005,
assuming as fair value the last sale price of $9.95 per
share on The Nasdaq Stock Market, the aggregate fair value of
shares held by non-affiliates was approximately
$41.5 million.

Documents incorporated by reference: 

The Company s Proxy Statement for its annual meeting of
shareholders to be held on June 14, 2006, a definitive copy
of which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 120 days of December 31, 2005, is
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Report on
Form  10-K. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page    

PART I   

Item 1. 

Business  

2 

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

9 

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors  

10 

Item 2. 

Properties  

11 

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings  

11 

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders  

12 

PART II   

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity
    and Related Stockholder Matters  

13 

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data  

13 

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

14 

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk  

34 

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data  

35 

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

61 

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures  

61 

Item 9B. 

Other Information  

61 

PART III   

Item 10. 

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant  

62 

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation  

62 

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

62 

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  

62 

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

62 

PART IV   

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules  

63 

Signatures  

65 

Employment Agreement - Jeffrey B. Murphy    
     Description of the 2006 Performance Incentive Program    
     Description of the Reinsurance Agreement    
     Minnesota Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Association    
     Election Form for the 2006 Minnesota Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Association Reinsurance Agreement    
     Description of the Reinsurance Agreement for 2006    
     Statement Re: Computation of Income Per Share    
     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
     Certification of President and Chief Executive Officer    
     Certification of Chief Financial Officer    
     Certification Pursuant to Section 906    
     Share Repurchase Program Resumption    

1

Table of Contents   

PART I 

ITEM 1.  
     
      BUSINESS   

Overview 

RTW, Inc. (RTW) provides disability and absence management
services, directed today primarily at workers  compensation
to: (i) employers insured through our wholly-owned
insurance subsidiary, American Compensation Insurance Company
(ACIC) and its wholly-owned insurance subsidiary,
Bloomington Compensation Insurance Company (BCIC);
(ii) self-insured employers on a fee-for-service basis;
(iii) state-sponsored assigned risk plans on a percent of
premium basis; (iv) other insurance companies; and
(v) to agents and employers on a consulting basis, charging
hourly fees through RTW and its
Absentia  sm  
division. ACIC offers guaranteed cost workers  compensation
insurance to employers located primarily in Minnesota, Michigan
and Colorado and is licensed in twenty-three states. BCIC began
underwriting business in October 2005 and offers guaranteed-cost
workers  compensation insurance to selected employers only
in Minnesota. Collectively,  we,   our  and
 us  refer to RTW, ACIC, BCIC and Absentia in this
document.

We developed two proprietary systems to manage disability:
(i) ID15   ,
designed to quickly identify those injured employees who are
likely to become inappropriately dependent on disability system
benefits; and (ii) The RTW
Solution   ,
rapid intervention in and intensive management of potentially
high-cost injuries, designed to lower employers  disability
costs and improve productivity by returning injured employees to
work as soon as safely possible. We support these proprietary
management systems with
 state-of -the-art
technology and talented employees dedicated to our vision of
transforming people from absent or idle to present and
productive. Our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in
Minnesota and operated primarily in Minnesota, Michigan and
Colorado in 2005, 2004 and 2003. Absentia serviced customers in
six states in 2004 and expanded to 18 states by
December 31, 2005.

Our approach to managing disability reduces medical expenses and
wage-replacement costs (including time away from the job). We:
(i) focus our efforts on the 15% of the injured employees
that drive 80% of the system costs; (ii) control costs by
actively managing all participants in the system, including
employers, employees, medical care providers, attorneys and the
legal system; and (iii) return injured employees to work as
soon as safely possible.

Industry 

Today, we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from
products and services related to managing workers 
compensation. Workers  compensation benefits are mandated
and regulated at the state level. Every state requires employers
to provide wage-replacement and medical benefits to workplace
accident victims regardless of fault. Virtually all employers in
the United States are required to either: (a) purchase
workers  compensation insurance from a private insurance
carrier; (b) obtain coverage from a state managed fund; or
(c) if permitted by their state, to be self-insured.
Workers  compensation laws generally mandate two types of
benefits for injured employees: (i) indemnity payments
including temporary wage-replacement or permanent disability
payments; and (ii) medical benefits that include payment
for expenses related to injury diagnosis, treatment and
rehabilitation, if necessary. On an industry-wide basis, medical
benefits represent approximately 55% of benefits paid, while
indemnity benefits account for the remaining 45%.

Estimated workers  compensation insurance premiums in 2005
are in excess of $40 billion nationwide. Approximately 75%
of the premium volume is written through the traditional or
private residual market, including commercial insurers and
state-operated assigned risk pools established for high-risk
employers. The balance is written through state funds, operated
in states to increase competition and stabilize the market.

Indemnity benefits are established by state legislative action
and rise as wages and state mandated benefits increase.
Indemnity costs have increased at a rate consistent with wage
inflation while medical expenses have been increasing at a
double-digit pace across the United States. We believe the most
significant factor affecting cost in the workers 
compensation system results from incentives for injured
employees to

2

Table of Contents   

remain away from work, continuing to collect indemnity payments
and receiving medical treatment beyond the point that is
necessary.

We believe that we are more effective than traditional insurance
companies and third party administrators in controlling medical
and indemnity costs and returning employees to the workplace in
a timely manner. Traditional efforts focus on workplace safety
and medical cost containment and as a result, have reduced some
expenses. These efforts have not had a significant effect on the
overall system cost because they have not focused effectively on
controlling wage replacement and lost productivity. Traditional
insurance companies have moved toward a more comprehensive
management approach in recent years including
 return-to -work
initiatives and, while somewhat successful, they have not
realized the cost reductions and claim closure outcomes that we
have achieved.

Our Management Approach 

We developed our approach to managing disability after observing
two important characteristics of the system: (i) 15% of all
injuries result in 80% of the system costs; and (ii) an
employee off work for twelve weeks has a 50% likelihood of never
returning to work. We developed
ID15   
to identify those claims likely to account for 80% of the system
cost and The RTW
Solution   
to intervene quickly, reducing lost time and producing
significant cost savings for our customers. We promptly identify
(within 48 hours after being notified and with a 95% degree
of accuracy) claims likely to result in significant expense and
act quickly to control these costs before they are incurred or
get out of hand. We intensely manage all aspects of the system:
employers, injured employees, medical care providers and legal
and judicial participants. We focus on controlling indemnity
payments for lost wages by quickly and safely returning
employees to work. As part of this strategy, we attempt to
return employees to their original position or to place them in
transitional, light-duty positions until they are able to resume
their original jobs. By promptly returning employees to work, we
substantially reduce not only indemnity payments, but also
medical expense per injury. We also use other management
techniques to control medical costs including contracting with
provider networks, designating health care providers and
performing medical fee schedule review, utilization review and
doctor peer review.

We deliver our solutions to customers through operating teams.
Each operating team is responsible for managing claims and is
responsible for the loss experience of an employer or group of
employers. Our operating teams include a mix of nurses,
statutory claims administrators, assistant claims administrators
and clerical support that are matched to the needs of the
employer or group of employers. Operating teams meet regularly
to discuss strategies for managing difficult claims and review
strategies and procedures that have been successful in resolving
disputes.

The following summarizes our approach to managing all
participants in the disability system:

Customers.  Prior to working with employers that we insure
and customers to whom we provide non-insurance services, we
fully explain our methods, processes, guidelines and philosophy
regarding appropriate return to work and train the
employer s personnel. In addition, as part of our
underwriting process, we may conduct
 on-site  risk
assessments for prospective insured employers. Employers insured
by ACIC and BCIC have historically agreed, as part of the
insurance policy, to comply with our early intervention methods
and to provide transitional, light-duty work for injured
employees until such time as they are able to resume their
normal positions. Compliance for insured employers who have
these endorsements to their policies, is mandatory or we cancel
their coverage. Our service customers have ultimate choice, but
we encourage them to provide transitional work to reduce the
cost of disability. To ensure that our early intervention model
succeeds, we require the employer to promptly notify us of a
claim s occurrence, typically within 48 hours of the
injury.

Each operating team is responsible for managing its
employers  workers  compensation and disability
program(s). The operating team meets with each employer, manages
all reported injuries and actively communicates with the
employer on all open injuries. We may make workplace safety
recommendations through our accident prevention team or retain a
workplace safety-engineering firm to assist employers in
remedying work conditions that create inappropriate risk. In
addition, operating teams may recommend, for policies
underwritten by ACIC or BCIC, cancellation or non-renewal for
employers that fail to comply with our procedures.

3

Table of Contents   

Employees.  We focus on the person, not solely on the
nature of the injury, in determining which claims are likely to
result in higher costs and act quickly to control the related
expenses. Within 48 hours of being notified of an injury,
we evaluate several factors, including the type of injury, the
presence of lost time, the employee s injury history and
employee s psychosocial behaviors to determine whether the
injury is likely to involve significant expense. In cases where
there is high-cost potential, we intervene quickly, assisting
the employee in obtaining appropriate medical care and
developing a plan to get the employee back to work as soon as
safely possible. Employers insured by ACIC and BCIC are required
to provide transitional light-duty jobs for employees who cannot
immediately return to their original positions. If the employee
refuses transitional work, we may terminate indemnity payments,
but are required to continue to provide appropriate medical
benefits. For employers that we service through Absentia, we
educate the employer on the benefit of
 return-to -work programs
and work closely to find transitional light-duty opportunities
for the employee.

Medical Care Providers.  We actively assess, monitor and
manage medical treatment and review medical expenses for each
injury. We contact the employee s treating physician in
cases that involve time off from work or injuries that could
involve significant expense. In these cases, the physicians are
asked to provide their diagnosis, plan of treatment and assess
the employee s physical capabilities for transitional,
light-duty work. We contract with and employ consulting
physicians to assess questionable treatment plans for injured
employees. These physicians discuss injured employee treatment
plans with the employee s medical care providers. The goal
is to ensure both an accurate diagnosis and appropriate
treatment of the injury and understand the nature and extent
that the diagnosis places limits on the employee s ability
to return to work in either the original job or a transitional,
light-duty position. We also monitor the health care provided to
the injured employee to ensure that the employee receives proper
treatment for the injury and that the employee does not receive
services or procedures that are excessive, unnecessary or
unrelated to the injury. In addition, when we believe the
diagnosis of an injury or the proposed rehabilitation treatment
is inappropriate, we will arrange for a second opinion with an
independent medical examiner.

A medical cost management team reviews all bills submitted by
medical care providers to determine if the amounts charged for
the treatments are appropriate according to statutory and other
negotiated fee schedules, including fee schedules negotiated
through provider organizations.

In many states, including Minnesota, we cannot require that an
injured employee go to a specific physician or seek treatment
from a specific provider. Nevertheless, we attempt to assist the
injured employee in selecting appropriate medical care
providers. In Colorado and Michigan (for the first ten days
after the injury), we can require that injured employees go to a
physician within a designated network of medical care providers.

Legal and Judicial Participants.  We seek to limit the
number of disputes with injured employees by intervening early,
educating, ensuring appropriate medical management and treating
them with dignity and respect. As part of our process, we
identify injuries that are not work related and deny those
claims. We may also deny indemnity payments for a claim when we
determine that no further payments are appropriate (for example,
when an employee has been offered transitional, light-duty work
and has refused it). In these and other circumstances, the
employee may engage an attorney to represent his or her
interests. Generally, if the parties are unable to resolve the
matter, workers  compensation law mandates arbitration,
subject to judicial review. For cases that involve adversarial
proceedings, we engage one of several attorneys who are familiar
with our philosophy and actively seek to resolve the dispute
with the employee s attorney.

Customers 

We target two specific groups of customers: (i) employers
seeking workers  compensation insurance coverage for their
operations in the states our insurance subsidiaries operate; and
(ii) employers in need of non-insurance solutions that
increase productivity and reduce the cost of disability and
absence. Our insured customers have a history of workers 
compensation claim costs higher than average in their industry
and typically operate in manufacturing, retail, wholesale,
health care and hospitality.

Our insured customer s average annual premium per policy
increased 1.0% to $95,500 in 2005 from $94,600 in 2004 and
$85,400 in 2003. Our ten largest customers accounted for
$5.7 million or 10.8% of our

4

Table of Contents   

premiums in force in 2005 compared to $5.7 million or 9.1%
in 2004 and $5.7 million or 9.8% in 2003. No single
customer accounted for more than 5% of in force premiums in
2005, 2004 or 2003. We renewed 65.9% of the policies scheduled
to expire in 2005, whereas 78.6% and 66.0% were renewed in 2004
and 2003, respectively. Substantially all of ACIC s and
BCIC s employers are in Minnesota, Colorado and Michigan.
In addition to these states, we are also licensed in
Connecticut, Missouri, Massachusetts, Illinois, Rhode Island,
Kansas, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Maryland, Arkansas, Iowa,
Florida, New Jersey, Georgia, North Carolina, Texas, Indiana,
South Dakota, Wisconsin and Oklahoma. We are evaluating
opportunities to expand our insurance products on a limited
basis beyond the states in which we currently operate.

We offer disability and absence management services through RTW
and its Absentia division to a broad array of customers
including self-insured employers, insurance companies,
third-party administrators, agents and brokers, state agencies
and municipalities. We currently offer these services to
employers in 24 states and expect to further expand these
non-insurance service offerings throughout the United States.
Our service revenue increased to $4.4 million in 2005 from
$633,000 in 2004 and $109,000 in 2003.

Products 

Insurance Products.  Our revenue is derived primarily from
workers  compensation insurance premiums written by ACIC
and BCIC. We began offering workers  compensation insurance
products in April 1992 for ACIC and in October 2005 for BCIC.
Substantially all of ACIC s and BCIC s workers 
compensation products are guaranteed-cost insurance policies.
Under a guaranteed-cost policy, an employer purchases an
insurance policy underwritten by ACIC or BCIC and pays a premium
based on projected aggregate annual payroll. We assume
responsibility for the indemnity and medical costs associated
with the employer s workers  compensation injuries and
work closely with the employer in managing the employer s
workers  compensation program.

In addition to standard guaranteed-cost policies, ACIC offers,
on a limited basis, a deductible guaranteed-cost policy under
which the employer is responsible for all medical and indemnity
expenses up to a specific dollar amount, while we are
responsible for medical and indemnity expenses over that level.
We provide the same comprehensive management services for
deductible guaranteed-cost policies and standard guaranteed-cost
policies.

We determine the premium to be charged an employer based on
several factors, including: (i) the expected dollar loss
per $100 of payroll for the employer s industry;
(ii) the employer s experience modifier, a measurement
of the difference between the employer s past claims
experience and its industry average; (iii) an upward or
downward adjustment to the premium based on our assessment of
the risks associated with providing coverage for the employer;
and (iv) competitive market prices. An employer s
expected dollar loss and experience modifier are each determined
by an independent rating agency established or adopted by its
state, based on a three-year average of the claims 
experience of the employer and its industry.

Service Offerings.  In 2004, we began a strategic
initiative to offer disability management products and services
directed at workers  compensation on a fee-for-service
basis in order to diversify our offerings, providing us a
non-risk source of revenue. This strategic initiative extends
our workers  compensation and disability management
services to self-insured employers and other alternative market
non-risk customers. We charge a fee to these customers based on
the expected number of claims managed or the time committed to
the customer. We grew our services from offering solely
third-party administration in 2003 to providing nine service
offerings in 2005. At December 31, 2005, our annualized
service revenues totaled more than $6.6 million related to
this initiative. Annualized service revenue represents the
estimated total value of service contracts that are in place at
any point in time. In 2005, we put this business under a
division of RTW that we named Absentia.

Sales and Marketing 

We sell our workers  compensation insurance products to
insured employers through independent insurance agencies and
brokers, including several large national agencies. Agency
commissions averaged 6.7% of gross premiums earned in 2005,
compared to 7.1% in 2004 and 7.3% in 2003. Our ten highest
producing

5

Table of Contents   

agencies accounted for $21.4 million or 40.3% of premiums
in force in 2005, compared to $26.1 million or 41.6% in
2004 and $22.9 million or 39.3% in 2003. No agency
accounted for more than 7.1% of premiums in force in 2005,
compared to 7.4% in 2004 and 6.0% in 2003. We continually market
our insurance products to agencies in our core regions to keep
them aware of developments in our business. Each region s
underwriting team is responsible for establishing and
maintaining agency relationships.

We sell our non-insurance services through sales personnel
employed by us, through our independent agents and brokers and
further leverage our vendor and other key relationships to
introduce us to employers that need the services we offer.

Reinsurance 

We purchase reinsurance to protect our insurance results from
potential losses in excess of the level we are willing to
accept. We share the risks and benefits of the insurance we
underwrite with reinsurers through reinsurance agreements. Our
primary reinsurance is excess of loss coverage that limits our
per-occurrence exposure.

Under an  excess of loss  reinsurance policy, we pay a
reinsurer a negotiated percentage of gross premiums earned. In
return, the reinsurer assumes all risks relating to injuries
over a specific dollar amount on a per occurrence basis. In
Minnesota, we are required to purchase excess of loss coverage
for our Minnesota policies from the Minnesota Workers 
Compensation Reinsurance Association (WCRA). In states other
than Minnesota, we purchase excess of loss coverage through
private reinsurers.

The following table summarizes our reinsurance coverage (all
losses ceded on a per occurrence basis):

We maintained our 2005 retention level in 2006 to reduce
volatility in our operating results.

In 1998, we purchased excess of loss coverage through GE
Reinsurance Corporation that provided reinsurance for claims
occurring on or after July 1, 1998, for policies with
effective dates prior to January 1, 2001, up to $275,000 in
excess of $25,000 in all states, except Minnesota. In Minnesota,
the coverage was $255,000 in excess of $25,000 for 1998,
$265,000 in excess of $25,000 for 1999 and $275,000 in excess of
$25,000 for 2000 and 2001. We purchased this coverage to reduce
risk and volatility in our operating performance. Although this
contract was terminated effective December 31, 2000, it
remained effective in 2001 for policies in force at
December 31, 2000 through expiration. Policies written or
renewed with effective dates after January 1, 2001 were not
covered under this lower level excess of loss reinsurance policy.

6

Table of Contents   

We annually review the financial stability of our reinsurers.
This review includes a ratings analysis of each reinsurer
participating in an existing reinsurance contract or from whom
we have a recoverable. Except for the WCRA, which is a mandatory
Minnesota reinsurer and unrated by A.M. Best, the following list
details our reinsurers and the current A.M. Best rating assigned
to each as of March 3, 2006:

A.M. Best    

Reinsurer  
       
      Rating    

Aspen Insurance UK Ltd

A 

American Re-Insurance Company

A 

Continental Casualty Company

A 

Everest Reinsurance Company

A 
     + 

GE Reinsurance Corporation

A 

General Reinsurance Corporation

A 
     ++ 

Max Re Ltd

A 
     - 

Platinum Underwriters Reinsurance, Inc. 

A 

SCOR Reinsurance Company

B 
     ++ 

Transatlantic Reinsurance Company

A 
     + 

Based on our review at December 31, 2005, we believe our
reinsurance balances are collectible and expect our reinsurers
to honor their obligations. Further, we are not aware of any
developments with respect to these reinsurers that would result
in uncollectible reinsurance balances. In the event that these
reinsurers are unable to honor their obligations to us due to
insolvency or otherwise, we will be required to pay these
obligations ourselves and the result could have a material
adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial
condition.

Competition 

The workers  compensation industry is highly competitive.
We compete with insurance companies, managed health care
organizations and state-sponsored insurance pools for insured
products and with third party administrators and specialized
consulting organizations for fee-for-service business. These
competitors may offer additional products and services to
employers, including other forms of insurance, while we offer
only workers  compensation insurance products and
disability and absence management services. As a consequence,
these competitors may have certain advantages in pricing their
products and services. In addition, certain competitors claim to
offer a management approach and competencies similar to that
offered by us. Many of our competitors have greater financial
and operating resources than we have.

Competitive factors in the industry include premium rates, level
of service and ability to reduce claims expense. We believe that
our workers  compensation insurance products and services
are competitively priced. We also believe that our level of
service and our ability to reduce claims are strong competitive
factors that have enabled us to retain existing customers and
attract new customers.

Insurance companies enter and exit states  workers 
compensation markets depending on their assessment of current
market conditions. Many insurance companies stopped underwriting
workers  compensation insurance during the early
1990 s due to rising costs that were not matched by
reductions in statutory benefits or higher premium rates. In the
mid to late 1990 s, we experienced increased market
pressure as new insurance companies and single-line
workers  compensation insurance companies entered the
market. In 2003, 2002 and 2001, many insurers withdrew from the
markets in which we operate. In 2004 and 2005, we experienced
two things: (i) large national carriers began retaining
workers  compensation risks that they did not retain in the
three previous years; and (ii) insurers that had not been
active for years and new carriers entered the markets in which
we operate and began writing workers  compensation
insurance. Premiums rates flattened in 2004 and declined in 2005
as a result.

Insurance companies compete with us for insured customers that
have lower past claims experience or lower experience
 modifiers.  As a result, we experience increased
competition on our renewing workers 

7

Table of Contents   

compensation policies because we reduce our customers 
experience modifiers. We expect to continue to experience this
competition for our ACIC and BCIC customers.

Another competitive factor results from the fact that some
insured employers will not purchase workers  compensation
products from insurance companies with an A.M. Best (Best)
rating less than  A . In addition, certain insurance
companies that write umbrella policies will not provide coverage
to an employer if a portion of the employer s underlying
insurance policy, such as the workers  compensation
portion, is written by an insurance company with a less than
 A  rating. We believe that ACIC s  B+ 
Best rating may make it difficult for us to provide insurance
products to certain employers.

ACIC s rating of  B+  (Very Good, Secure) on a
scale of  A++  (Superior) to  F  (In
Liquidation) was affirmed on April 19, 2005 and the outlook
revised from  stable  to  positive . This
represented an upgrade from a  B  rating assigned on
April 1, 2004 and a  B-  rating assigned by Best
in February 2002. Best assigns a rating after quantitatively and
qualitatively evaluating financial condition and operating
performance.

Data Management 

We use several proprietary systems developed by us in our
operations. These systems include:

First  

Install  
       
      System Description  
       
      Business Use  

1995

Policy management system 

Process insurance applications; issue and endorse policies 

1996

Case and claims management and medical fee adjudicating systems 

Manage claims, audit medical fees, pay claims, provide reports
    to policyholders and analyze claims data 

1999

Client account management system 

Billing, cash receipts, collections and agency commission systems 

We continue to maintain and upgrade these systems. We also
utilize third-party software to maintain financial information,
prepare accounting reports and financial statements and pay
vendors. We contract with a third-party provider of payroll
services for payroll, benefits and human resource software
services. We utilize other licensed software from national
vendors to maintain our financial records, file statutory
statements with insurance regulators and perform other general
business.

Employees 

We had 150 full-time employees at December 31, 2005.
Approximately 74 worked in our administrative, marketing and
financial functions and 76 served on, provided service to or
managed approximately ten operating teams. None of our employees
are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believe our
relationship with our employees is good.

Regulation 

Our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by governmental
agencies in the states in which we operate, and are subject to
regulation in any state in which we provide workers 
compensation products. State regulatory agencies have broad
administrative power over all aspects of our workers 
compensation business, including premium rates, benefit levels,
policy forms, dividend payments, capital adequacy and the amount
and type of our investments. These regulations are primarily
intended to protect covered employees and policyholders rather
than the insurance company. Both the legislation covering
insurance companies and the regulations adopted by state
agencies are subject to change.

Workers  compensation coverage is a creation of state law,
subject to change by state legislature, and is influenced by the
political processes in each state. Several states have mandated
that employers receive coverage only from state operated funds.
New laws affecting the workers  compensation system in
Minnesota, Colorado, Michigan and any other state where we may
operate, including laws that require all employers to
participate in state sponsored funds or that mandate premium
reductions, could have a material adverse effect on us.

8

Table of Contents   

Trade Names, Trademarks and Service Marks 

We use trade names, trademarks and service marks in our
business. We have registered our trade names, trademarks and
service marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office
in the past and intend to continue to do so in the future. We
believe that the goodwill associated with many of our trade
names, trademarks and service marks, particularly
 ID15,   The RTW Solution  and
 Absentia  are significant competitive assets in our
business. We also operate our business in several states outside
of Minnesota, using the RTW name in connection with the name of
the State.

Company Information 

Our website is  http://www.rtwi.com . We make available,
free of charge or through our website, our annual, quarterly and
current reports and proxy statements, and any amendments to
those filings, as soon as is reasonably possible after they are
filed with the SEC. Information about each beneficial owner and
the RTW Code of Business Ethics and Conduct are also available,
free of charge, through our website. Information contained on
our website is not part of this report.

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following are our Chairman and executive officers at
March 15, 2006:

Name  
       
      Age    
       
      Position  

John O. Goodwyne

67 

Chairman of the Board 

Jeffrey B. Murphy

44 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

Alfred L. LaTendresse

57 

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary 

Thomas J. Byers

50 

Executive Vice President   Sales and Marketing 

Keith D. Krueger

47 

Vice President   Insured Products and Assistant
    Secretary 

David M. Dietz

39 

Vice President   Business Development 

Patricia M. Sheveland

47 

Vice President   Case and Claims Management 

John O. Goodwyne joined our Board of Directors in December 2001
and became Chairman of the Board in December 2003. From 1974 to
2005, Mr. Goodwyne was the owner and President of J N
Johnson Sales & Service Inc., a non-public local
contractor for fire protection systems and distributor of fire
extinguishers. In addition, since 1982, he has been owner and
President of Low Voltage Contractors Inc., a non-public local
contractor for installation and service of fire alarm, security
and nurse call systems.

Jeffrey B. Murphy has served as President and Chief Executive
Officer since December 2003 and was elected to the Board in
March 2004. Mr. Murphy joined us in October 1994 as
Controller, was promoted to Chief Financial Officer in February
2000 and became President and Chief Executive Officer in
December 2003. Mr. Murphy was the Corporate Controller and
held other management positions for Midcontinent Media, Inc., a
non-public company, from 1989 to 1994 and served in various
financial audit positions with Grant Thornton LLP from 1983 to
1989.

Alfred L. LaTendresse rejoined us in December 2001 as Executive
Vice President and further assumed the roles of Chief Financial
Officer, Treasurer and Secretary in December 2003.
Mr. LaTendresse served as Chief Operations Officer and
Chief Financial Officer for Headwater Systems, Inc., a
non-public radio frequency identification technology company,
from June 1999 to December 2001. Mr. LaTendresse initially
joined us as Chief Financial Officer in 1990 and later added the
roles of Secretary and Treasurer. Mr. LaTendresse departed
from us in December 1998. Mr. LaTendresse served as a
Director for us from July 1993 until January 1995 and from
December 2001 to March 2004. Mr. LaTendresse is a member of
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the
Minnesota Society of Certified Public Accountants.

9

Table of Contents   

Thomas J. Byers joined us in October 2005 as Executive Vice
President   Sales and Marketing. Mr. Byers
previously served as Vice President, Sales and Marketing for
DirectCompRx from 2004 to 2005. In addition, Mr. Byers has
held executive positions as Vice President, Sales and Marketing
and Director of Business Development for GatesMcDonald from 1999
to 2004 and as President of Anthem Comp Services, a subsidiary
of Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield from 1997 to 1999.
Mr. Byers has been in the risk management and insurance
industry since 1986. Prior to that time, he was a world-class
professional athlete.

Keith D. Krueger joined us in September 1998 as the Director of
Underwriting and Pricing for our Minnesota regional office. He
was promoted to Director of Underwriting Services in our Home
Office in October 1999 and served in this capacity until being
promoted to Vice President   Underwriting and Sales in
March 2002 (later renamed Vice President   Insured
Products in December 2003). Mr. Krueger is also the
President of ACIC and BCIC. Prior to joining RTW,
Mr. Krueger was a Commercial Lines Underwriting Manager for
Citizens Security Mutual Insurance from June 1997 to August
1998. From March 1995 to May 1997, Mr. Krueger was Vice
President   Underwriting and Marketing for American
West Insurance, a non-public company. He is a member of the
American Institute for Property and Liability Underwriters and
holds the CPCU designation.

David M. Dietz joined us in July 2002 as the Director of
Self-Insured Services in our Home Office and was promoted to
Vice President   Alternative Products (later renamed
Absentia) in December 2003. Mr. Dietz became Vice
President   Business Development in October 2005.
Mr. Dietz came to us with fourteen years of experience in
the insurance industry. Prior to joining RTW, Mr. Dietz
served as Senior Vice President, Marketing and Technical Sales
for Benfield Blanch, Inc. from September 2000 to July 2002.
Mr. Dietz also served in various management roles for EBI
Companies, Citizens Management, Inc., TIG Insurance and Sentry
Insurance from 1989 to 2000.

Patricia M. Sheveland was promoted to Vice President  
Case and Claims Management in January 2002. Ms. Sheveland
joined us in April 1990 and has held various management
positions of increasing importance, including General Manager of
Operations in the Colorado regional office and Director of
Operations for the Colorado, Michigan and Massachusetts regions.
Prior to joining RTW, Ms. Sheveland worked as an
Occupational Nurse for Kmart Corporation. She is a Registered
Nurse.

ITEM 1A.  
     
      RISK FACTORS   

We derive a significant portion of our revenue from
workers  compensation insurance premiums and net investment
income, including gains and losses from sales of securities. An
increasing portion of our revenue is derived from non-insurance
disability and absence management services. We are subject to
the challenges, risks, uncertainties and trends that affect the
workers  compensation property and casualty insurance and
the disability and absence management services sectors of our
economy including the following:

Workers  compensation is a state regulated industry and
    therefore subject to change.  Workers  compensation is
    governed and regulated by state governmental agencies. We are
    subject to state regulation in any state in which we provide
    workers  compensation products and services, now and in the
    future. State regulatory agencies have broad administrative
    power with respect to all aspects of our business, including
    premium rates, benefit levels, policy forms, dividend payments,
    capital adequacy and the amount and type of investments.
    Legislation covering insurance companies and the regulations
    adopted by state agencies are subject to change and any change
    may adversely affect our operations; 

Workers  compensation claims and related expenses can be
    volatile.  Workers  compensation is a long-tailed
    property and casualty insurance line. Claims for a given year
    are open on average for twelve to thirteen years and it is not
    unusual for workers  compensation insurers to have some
    claims open for thirty or more years. We have operated ACIC
    since 1992, BCIC since 2005 and therefore have relatively
    limited experience (fourteen years), and accordingly, are
    subject to volatility. See further discussion under  Claim
    and Claim Settlement Expenses  

Workers  compensation is subject to inflationary
    pressures.  Worker s compensation is subject to both
    medical and wage inflation. The cost of medical care has
    increased in excess of 10% per annum in 

10

Table of Contents   

recent years. This has resulted in reduced profitability in the
    workers  compensation insurance line. New medical
    procedures could evolve and new legal theories develop that
    could cause older claims to re-open and increase expense. See
    further discussion under  Claim and Claim Settlement
    Expenses  

Workers  compensation pricing is cyclical.  In 2005,
    premium rates on our renewing policies declined an
    average 2.4%. Rates increased 0.9%, 1.4%, 9.0% and 18.5% in
    2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These increases came
    after many years of rate decreases that unfavorably affected the
    industry in the late 1990 s. If we are unable to maintain
    rates or decrease our costs, our profit margin will be adversely
    affected. See further discussion under  Premiums in Force
    and Gross Premiums Earned  

Reinsurance costs for workers  compensation have
    increased.  Reinsurance costs in 2005 increased over the
    prior year, continuing a pattern of cost increases beginning in
    2001. These higher costs, if not recovered through increased
    rates from our customers, will adversely affect our profit
    margin. See further discussion under  Premiums
    Ceded  and 

Profitable service revenue growth could be difficult.  The
    national market for disability and absence management services
    is highly competitive and includes national, regional and local
    providers. We do not have a national presence, limiting our
    ability to service national accounts. Any infrastructure changes
    to support growth in our non-insurance revenues could be
    expensive and diminish our earnings in the short-term. 

Other risk factors.  The following additional important
    factors, among others, could affect our results and could cause
    our actual financial performance to differ materially from that
    expressed in any forward-looking statement contained herein:
    (i) our ability to retain renewing policies and write new
    business with a B+ (Very Good, Secure) rating from A.M. Best;
    (ii) the ability of our reinsurers to honor their
    obligations to us; (iii) our ability to provide our
    proprietary products and services to customers successfully;
    (iv) our ability to manage both our existing claims and new
    claims in an effective manner; (v) our experience with
    claims frequency and severity; (vi) general economic and
    business conditions; (xii) our ability to obtain and retain
    reinsurance at a reasonable cost; and (vii) interest rate
    changes. 

ITEM 2.  
     
      PROPERTIES   

The following is a summary of properties leased by us at
December 31, 2005:

ITEM 3.  
     
      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   

RTW v. Carolina Casualty:  On April 12, 2005,
RTW, Inc. commenced a Declaratory Judgment action in the United
States District Court for the District of Minnesota against
Carolina Casualty Insurance Company. In the lawsuit, RTW is
seeking a Court determination that RTW is not liable for any
part of a $1.9 million judgment entered against an insured
of Carolina Casualty in District Court in Utah. Carolina
Casualty counterclaimed against RTW alleging that RTW owes it
$1.9 million, plus interest and attorneys fees.

On December 12, 2002, a Colorado employee of a Colorado
care company insured by RTW s subsidiary, American
Compensation Insurance Company, was injured in an automobile
accident in Utah. The injured

11

Table of Contents   

employee brought a separate underlying suit against Carolina
Casualty s insured trucking company and driver for damages
suffered as a result of the automobile accident.

While the underlying suit was pending, RTW administered and paid
the workers  compensation claim of the insured employee.
The total amount paid or accrued for future payment by RTW was
$163,586. RTW then sought indemnification from Carolina Casualty
under subrogation rights. In August 2004, Carolina
Casualty s insured trucking company admitted full liability
for the accident in the underlying suit.

In December 2004, Carolina Casualty agreed to pay and did pay
RTW the full amount of RTW s subrogation claim. On
January 14, 2005, after a jury trial on the injured
employee s damages, the U.S. District Court in Utah
entered a judgment of $1.9 million against Carolina
Casualty s insured, which was equal to the injured
employee s total damages, including $1,250,000 in general
damages, less the $163,586 representing workers compensation
benefits that had been paid, or accrued for future payments by
RTW. Carolina Casualty subsequently settled the lawsuit with the
injured worker for $1.8 million

In preparing the December 2004 settlement agreement for the
workers  compensation subrogation claim, counsel appointed
by Carolina Casualty for its insured inserted the provision that
Carolina Casualty in its counterclaim alleged required full
indemnification by RTW of any amounts that Carolina Casualty
pays the injured employee as a result of the liability of
Carolina Casualty s insured.

After Carolina Casualty s attorneys requested
indemnification pursuant to this provision, RTW commenced the
Declaratory Judgment suit described above. A similar Utah
declaratory action initiated by Carolina Casualty and its
insured has been dismissed and all matters will now proceed
solely in United States District Court for the District of
Minnesota.

RTW believes that it has good and meritorious defenses to the
indemnification claims of Carolina Casualty. Discovery has been
completed and RTW has filed a summary judgment motion for a
declaration that it has no liability to Carolina Casualty. In
opposing RTW s motion, Carolina Casualty apparently dropped
its claim for indemnification with respect to the $1,250,000
portion of the judgment relating to general damages and
requested that judgment be entered finding the claimed indemnity
provision otherwise binding and enforceable. A hearing on the
summary judgment motion has been scheduled before the Court for
April 19, 2006 and a decision is expected sometime within
90 days of that date.

Other litigation:  In the ordinary course of administering
our workers  compensation programs, we are routinely
involved in the adjudication of claims resulting from workplace
injuries. We are not involved in any other legal or
administrative claims that we believe are likely to have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of
operations.

ITEM 4.  
     
      SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

None.

12

Table of Contents   

PART II 

ITEM 5.  
     
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
    STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   

QUARTERLY STOCK PRICE COMPARISON AND DIVIDENDS 

Our shares are traded publicly on The Nasdaq Stock Market under
the symbol RTWI. The table below sets forth the range of high
and low sale prices for our stock for each quarter during the
past two years. We had approximately 1,800 shareholders of
our common stock at the close of trading on March 7, 2006.

We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. We intend
to retain any and all income for use in our business and do not
anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any
future determination as to payment of dividends will depend on
our financial condition and results of operations and such other
factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors.

RECENT SALES OF UNREGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES 

We had no unregistered sales of equity securities during the
quarter ended December 31, 2005.

ISSUER REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

We did not repurchase any of our equity securities during the
quarter ended December 31, 2005.

ITEM 6.  
     
      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   

The Consolidated Statements of Income data set forth below for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2005, and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data at
December 31, 2005 and 2004 are derived from, and are
qualified by reference to, the audited Consolidated Financial
Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K.  The
Consolidated Statements of Income data set forth below for the
two years in the period ended December 31, 2002, and the
Consolidated Balance Sheet data at December 31, 2003, 2002
and 2001, are derived from audited Consolidated Financial
Statements not included herein. The information set forth below
should be read in conjunction with  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  and our consolidated financial statements and
related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

Annualized service revenue represents the estimated total value
of service contracts that are in place at any point in time.

13

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7.  
     
      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
    CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

RTW, INC. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

OVERVIEW 

The Company    RTW, Inc. (RTW) provides
disability and absence management services, directed today
primarily at workers  compensation to: (i) employers
insured through our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, American
Compensation Insurance Company (ACIC) and its wholly-owned
insurance subsidiary, Bloomington Compensation Insurance Company
(BCIC); (ii) self-insured employers on a fee-for-service
basis; (iii) state-sponsored assigned risk plans on a
percent of premium basis; (iv) other insurance companies;
and (v) to agents and employers on a consulting basis,
charging hourly fees through RTW and its
Absentia  sm  
division. ACIC offers guaranteed cost workers  compensation
insurance to employers located primarily in Minnesota, Michigan
and Colorado and is licensed in twenty-three states. BCIC began
underwriting business in October 2005 and offers guaranteed-cost
workers  compensation insurance to selected employers only
in Minnesota. Collectively,  we,   our  and
 us  refer to RTW, ACIC, BCIC and Absentia in this
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations. 

We developed two proprietary systems to manage disability:
(i) ID15   ,
designed to quickly identify early those injured employees who
are likely to become inappropriately dependent on disability
system benefits; and (ii) The RTW
Solution   ,
rapid intervention in and intensive management of potentially
high-cost injuries, designed to lower employers  disability
costs and improve productivity by returning injured employees to
work as soon as safely possible. We support these proprietary
management systems with
 state-of -the-art
technology and talented employees dedicated to our vision of
transforming people from absent or idle to present and
productive. Our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in
Minnesota and operated primarily in Minnesota, Michigan and
Colorado in 2005, 2004 and 2003. Absentia serviced customers in
six states in 2004 and expanded to 18 states by
December 31, 2005.

On April 14, 2005, A.M. Best Co. (Best) affirmed the
financial strength rating of  B+  (Very Good, Secure)
for ACIC and revised its outlook to  positive  from
 stable . The rating reflects our improved
capitalization and profitability over the last three years. ACIC
increased its statutory capital and surplus to
$43.6 million at December 31, 2005 and
$38.5 million at December 31, 2004 from
$33.0 million at December 31, 2003 as a result of
profitability in 2005 and 2004. We believe that our
 B+  rating from A.M. Best may create a barrier in
certain circumstances for us as there are agents and employers
that will only do business with insurers rated  A-  or
better.

Additional information about RTW is available on our website at
www.rtwi.com.

Significant Accounting Policies    Our
significant accounting policies are summarized in
Note 1    Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies  included in the accompanying Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. Our significant accounting
policies include those policies related to our accounting for:
(i) premiums earned; (ii) unpaid claim and claim
settlement expenses, including reserves for incurred but not
reported claims and the related reinsurance recoverables;
(iii) deferred policy acquisition costs; (iv) income
taxes and deferred income taxes; and (v) investments. These
accounting policies are discussed within each section of this
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations .

Service revenue includes revenues for services that are:
(i) billed as a percent of premium of insurance policies
issued by non-affiliated third-party insurers, including
state-assigned risk plans; (ii) billed based on the number
and type of claims serviced; (iii) billed on an hourly
basis based on direct activity; or (iv) billed based on
contract duration. Service revenue earned as a percent of
premium is recognized over the life of the underlying insurance
policy. All other service revenue is recognized over the term of
the contract. The excess

14

Table of Contents   

of billed service revenue over earned amounts is recognized as a
liability and included in  Accrued expenses and other
liabilities  on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    We do not have
any off-balance sheet arrangements.

Financial Summary    This financial summary
presents our discussion and analysis of the consolidated
financial condition and results of operations of RTW, Inc. This
review should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements at December 31, 2005.

The following table provides an overview of our key operating
results (000 s, except per share amounts):

We reported net income of $6.0 million in 2005 compared to
net income of $9.9 million in 2004 and $7.0 million in
2003. We reported diluted income per share of $1.06 in 2005
compared to diluted income per share of $1.81 in 2004 and $1.32
in 2003. The primary factors affecting our 2005 operating
results included the following:

We expect to grow 2006 premiums in force opportunistically as we
expand to areas outside our traditional markets. We also
anticipate that premium rates will decrease slightly in 2006 as
the markets in which we operate continue to become more
competitive. We will focus on insurance profitability by:
(i) writing new business in niches that are less sensitive
to soft market pricing; (ii) aggressively managing and
closing claims;

15

Table of Contents   

(iii) reviewing policy profitability at renewal and
removing unprofitable accounts; and (iv) aggressively
managing policy acquisition costs.

We expect to increase non-insurance revenue significantly in
2006 as we continue to provide services to employers insured
through the Minnesota Assigned Risk Plan and add new customers.
General and administrative expenses will increase as we:
(i) continue to hire and position for the future; and
(ii) grow service revenue.

In the following pages, we take a look at the 2005, 2004 and
2003 operating results for items in our Consolidated Statements
of Income and also explain key Consolidated Balance Sheet
accounts in greater detail.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Total revenues:  Our total revenues include premiums
earned, net investment income, net realized investment gains
(losses) and service revenue. The following table summarizes the
components of our revenues and premiums in force (000 s):

Premiums In Force and Gross Premiums Earned:  Premiums on
workers  compensation insurance policies are our largest
source of revenue. Premiums earned are the gross premiums earned
by us on in force workers  compensation policies, net of
the effects of ceded premiums under reinsurance agreements.

The premium we charge a policyholder is a function of the
policyholder s payroll, industry and prior workers 
compensation claims experience. In underwriting a policy, we
receive policyholder payroll estimates for the ensuing year. We
record premiums written on an installment basis matching our
billing to the policyholder and earn premiums on a daily basis
over the life of each insurance policy based on the payroll
estimate. We record the excess of premiums billed over premiums
earned for each policy as unearned premiums on our balance
sheet. When a policy expires, we audit policyholder payrolls for
the policy period and adjust the estimated payroll to its actual
value. The result is a  final audit  adjustment
recorded to premiums earned when the adjustment becomes known.
Final audit premiums recognized during the period include billed
final audit premiums plus (or minus) the change in estimate for
premiums on unexpired and expired unaudited policies.

16

Table of Contents   

Our premiums in force decreased to $52.9 million at
December 31, 2005 from $62.7 million at
December 31, 2004 and $58.1 million at
December 31, 2003. Premiums in force in our Minnesota,
Colorado and Michigan regions decreased $5.5 million,
$2.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively, at the
end of 2005 compared to the end of 2004. Average premiums in
force decreased to $57.9 million in 2005 from
$61.5 million in 2004 but increased from $53.6 million
in 2003. Premiums in force decreased in 2005 as we focused on
maintaining adequate pricing and declined business where we
could not get a price that gave us an appropriate opportunity to
earn a profit. We are in the midst of a soft cycle in the
insurance market. We write to achieve an expected profit, no
matter what our competitors do. In 2004 and 2003, we were able
to grow our business while gaining appropriate pricing on our
policies written. Our average annual premium per policy
increased to $95,500 in 2005 from $94,600 in 2004 and $85,400 in
2003.

Our gross premiums earned decreased 5.5% to $59.9 million
in 2005 from $63.4 million in 2004. This decrease resulted
primarily from: (i) the decrease in average premiums in
force, offset by; (ii) a slight increase in final audit
premiums which increased gross premiums earned by
$1.4 million in 2005 compared to $1.2 million in 2004.

Our gross premiums earned increased 16.5% to $63.4 million
in 2004 from $54.4 million in 2003. This increase resulted
primarily from: (i) the increase in average premiums in
force, offset by; (ii) an increase in final audit premiums
which increased gross premiums earned by $1.2 million in
2004 compared to a $323,000 increase in 2003.

Premium rates on renewing policies decreased an average of 2.4%
in 2005, compared to increases of 0.9% and 1.4% in 2004 and
2003, respectively. The 2005 decrease reflects heightened price
competition due to the soft insurance market cycle in the
markets in which we write premiums.

Premiums Ceded:  Reinsurance agreements enable us to share
certain risks with other insurance companies. We purchase
reinsurance to protect us from potential losses in excess of the
level we are willing to accept. We expect the companies to which
we have ceded reinsurance to honor their obligations. In the
event that these companies are unable to honor their obligations
to us, we will be required to pay the underlying obligations
ourselves. We are not aware of any developments with respect to
any of our reinsurers that would result in our current
reinsurance balances becoming uncollectible.

17

Table of Contents   

Under our excess of loss reinsurance policies, we pay reinsurers
to limit our per-incident exposure and record this cost to
premiums ceded as a reduction of gross premiums earned. In
Minnesota, we are required to purchase excess of loss coverage
for our Minnesota policies from the Minnesota Workers 
Compensation Reinsurance Association (WCRA). We purchased
reinsurance for 2005 in our states other than Minnesota from
four reinsurers. The following table summarizes our reinsurance
coverage (all losses ceded on a per occurrence basis):

Premiums ceded to reinsurers increased to $10.5 million in
2005 from $9.7 million in 2004. As a percent of gross
premiums earned, premiums ceded increased to 17.5% in 2005 from
15.3% in 2004. The increase in premiums ceded reflects a rate
increase for excess of loss reinsurance coverage in all regions
in 2005. The rates we are charged are lower for Minnesota risks
compared to our other states risks.

Premiums ceded to reinsurers increased to $9.7 million in
2004 from $8.1 million in 2003. The increase in premiums
ceded resulted primarily from: (i) our cost for excess of
loss reinsurance coverage increased substantially in all regions
in 2004; (ii) gross premiums earned in 2004 increased from
2003; and (iii) the 2004 results include a $129,000
decrease in excess of loss premiums ceded, resulting from a
change in estimated reinsurance cost for the WCRA compared to a
$92,000 increase in excess of loss premiums ceded in 2003.

2006 Outlook:  The 2006 outlook for premiums in force,
gross premiums earned and premiums ceded include the following
factors:

We expect increased price competition in the markets in which we
    operate, which will exert downward pressure on premium pricing
    on new and renewal policies as national and regional carriers
    focus on writing and retaining workers  compensation
    insurance. We expect to add new agency relationships in 2006 and
    terminate some that are not performing well. We expect growth in
    premiums in force in 2006 as we expand our underwriting niche,
    write multi-state policies and begin leveraging unused licenses; 

Our 2006 gross premiums earned will move in the same direction
    as our premiums in force, lagging slightly as premiums are
    earned over the term of the insurance policy; and 

We continue to limit our exposure to large losses by purchasing
    excess of loss reinsurance for losses in excess of $200,000 in
    all our regions in 2006. The cost of excess of loss reinsurance
    has decreased slightly or remained the same for all regions in
    2006; however, because of a shift in premiums earned to higher
    reinsurance cost states, we expect premiums ceded under excess
    of loss policies to increase as a percent of gross premiums
    earned in 2006 when compared to the results attained for 2005. 

Net Investment Income and Net Realized Investment Gains
(Losses):  Net investment income includes earnings from our
investment portfolio, reduced by expenses incurred in managing
the portfolio. Our net

18

Table of Contents   

realized investment gains (losses), displayed separately on our
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income, include gains
and losses from sales of securities.

We currently invest entirely in U.S. domiciled
investment-grade taxable and tax-exempt fixed maturity
investments and classify our investments as available-for-sale.
Our primary investment objective is to maintain a diversified,
high-quality, fixed-investment portfolio structured to maximize
our after-tax net investment income without taking inappropriate
credit risk. For further discussion of investments, see the
 Investments  section of this Management s
Discussion and Analysis.

At December 31, 2003, we were invested entirely in
U.S. domiciled investment-grade taxable fixed maturity
investments. We added U.S. domiciled investment-grade
tax-exempt fixed maturity investments in 2004 to take advantage
of the tax benefits of those securities and interest rate
spreads. We held cash and cash equivalents totaling
$21.9 million and $39.4 million at December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. In order to reduce the near term
interest rate risk on the portfolio, we built our cash position
throughout 2003 and 2004 by holding cash received on
mortgage-backed security prepayments and through sales of
securities expecting interest rates would rise in 2005. During
2005, we began to invest a portion of our cash and cash
equivalents into longer maturing, fixed-rate securities. We
intend to hold our available-for-sale investments to maturity.

Net investment income increased to $4.6 million in 2005
from $3.7 million in 2004. In late 2004, yields on short
maturity instruments began to improve. This improvement
continued throughout 2005 and resulted in a relatively
 flat  yield curve. The yield curve change benefited
our yields on cash and cash equivalents. Later in the year, we
further enhanced our net investment income realized on cash and
cash equivalents by structuring a cash ladder to improve yields
without taking undue risk. Total invested assets (investments,
cash and cash equivalents) increased from $126.3 million at
December 31, 2004 to $129.1 million at
December 31, 2005. Our book investment yield, excluding
cash and cash equivalents, decreased to 3.9% at
December 31, 2005 from 4.0% at December 31, 2004. As
maturities occurred and pay-downs on mortgage backed securities
occurred, we decreased our average maturity and duration to
minimize interest rate risk. The investment yields realized in
future periods will be affected by yields attained on new
investments.

Net investment income decreased to $3.7 million in 2004
from $4.3 million in 2003. This decrease in net investment
income resulted from the decrease in our average book interest
rates during 2004 and was partially offset by the increase in
assets invested, to $86.9 million in 2004 from
$77.1 million in 2003. Interest rates at December 31,
2004 were at approximately the same levels as December 2003.
Approximately $7.5 million of mortgage-backed securities in
our investment portfolio were repaid earlier than expected due
to consumer mortgage refinancing and normal repayment patterns
that occurred in 2004. An additional $11.3 million of other
securities matured during 2004. The funds that became available
could not be reinvested at comparable rates, causing the book
investment yield to decline from 2003. Our book investment
yield, excluding cash and cash equivalents, declined to 4.0% at
December 31, 2004 from 4.6% at December 31, 2003.

In 2005, 2004 and 2003, we sold certain securities within the
portfolio to take advantage of favorable interest rates and
realized net investment gains totaling $580,000, $705,000 and
$685,000, respectively.

2006 Outlook:  We expect that income from our investment
portfolio for 2006 will be affected by the following:

We expect interest rates to increase in 2006. The timing of any
    such rate increases is unknown at this time. We intend to invest
    our excess cash into higher yielding investments in 2006 as
    rates increase; 

We expect that short-term interest rates on cash and cash
    equivalents will increase in 2006 as the Federal Reserve Board
    increases its rates; 

Our investment in tax-exempt municipal bonds will reduce net
    investment income and favorably affect net income as investment
    yields will be lower on a pre-tax basis but will be higher on a
    tax-adjusted basis; 

Cash flows for 2006 are expected to be affected by decreases in
    cash flows resulting from claim payments on claims from 2005 and
    prior years offset by cash flows from our premiums and service
    revenue; 

19

Table of Contents   

Recognition of realized investment gains and losses will depend
    on sales of our investments, if any, to meet our short-term cash
    requirements or as we reposition our portfolio to further manage
    our portfolio returns. We do not anticipate selling any
    securities in 2006; and 

New and renegotiated reinsurance treaties may affect our future
    cash flow and future net investment income. 

Service Revenue:  Service revenue includes revenues for
services that are: (i) billed as a percent of premium of
insurance policies issued by non-affiliated third-party
insurers; (ii) billed based on the number and type of
claims serviced; (iii) billed on an hourly basis based on
direct activity; or (iv) billed based on contract duration.
Our customers include the Minnesota Workers  Compensation
Assigned Risk Plan (ARP), self-insured employers, other
insurance companies, insurance agents and local governmental
units. Service revenue grew to $4.4 million in 2005 from
$633,000 in 2004 and $109,000 in 2003. Annualized service
revenue was $6.6 million at December 31, 2005.
Annualized service revenue represents the estimated total value
of service contracts that are in place at any point in time.

2006 Outlook:  Service revenue will increase significantly
in 2006 due to the following:

In March 2004, we were awarded a three-year contract to service
    25% of the ARP. We are paid a fee based on a percent of the
    premium we service and began servicing new ARP business on
    July 1, 2004 and renewal ARP business on September 1,
    2004. During 2005, we continued to ramp up our servicing of this
    contract, achieving a full  25%  share in September
    2005. The total annual premium in the ARP at December 31,
    2005 is approximately $85.1 million, which decreased from
    $100.7 million at December 31, 2004. We expect the
    total annual premium in the ARP to continue to decrease slightly
    during 2006, which will exert downward pressure on our related
    revenue, offset by being at a full  25%  servicing
    rate for the entire year; and 

We continue to market our alternative products aggressively
    inside and outside the regions in which we currently operate. We
    expect service revenue will increase as new customers become
    aware of and purchase these services. The ultimate effect on
    service revenue is unknown at this time. 

Total Expenses:  Our expenses include claim and claim
settlement expenses, policy acquisition costs, general and
administrative expenses and income taxes.

Claim and Claim Settlement Expenses:  Claim expenses refer
to medical and indemnity benefits that we paid or expect to pay
to claimants for past events we insured. The costs of
investigating, resolving and processing these claims are
referred to as claim settlement expenses. We record these
expenses, net of amounts recoverable under reinsurance
contracts, to claim and claim settlement expenses in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income.

Claim and claim settlement expenses are our largest expense and
result in our largest liability. We establish reserves that
reflect our estimates of the total claim and claim settlement
expenses we will ultimately have to pay under our workers 
compensation insurance policies. These include claims that have
been reported but not yet settled and claims that have been
incurred but not yet reported to us. For further discussion of
reserve determination, see the  Unpaid Claim and Claim
Settlement Expenses  and  Reinsurance
Recoverables  sections of this Management s Discussion
and Analysis.

The number of estimated ultimate claims by accident year
decreased to approximately 9,500 in 2005 from 11,800 in 2004 and
9,600 in 2003, correlating directly to the decrease in gross
earned premiums. The gross and net average estimated cost per
claim (which includes both claim and claim settlement expenses)
totaled approximately $5,200 and $4,400 in 2005 compared to
$5,100 and $4,200 in 2004 and $5,000 and $4,200 in 2003,
respectively. The 2005 and 2004 increases in gross and net
average estimated cost per claim, when compared to the 2003
data, is primarily the result of increases in claim severity,
offset by our improved ability to manage cases and claims. The
trend of increasing severity is attributable to a combination of
factors that include increasing medical and indemnity costs
(reimbursements to injured workers for lost wages) per claim and
a decline in the number of claims being reported over the last
several years. The declining frequency

20

Table of Contents   

of claims contributes to the increasing severity trend because
the frequency decline has been concentrated in less expensive
claims (claims involving less time-off from work and less severe
injuries).

At December 31, 2005, the number of claims reported but
unpaid (open claims) and the approximate average gross and net
reserves on the claims occurring in the following accident years
were:

The average gross and net reserves per claim are less in 2005
than in 2004 and 2003 as the open claims include newly reported
claims from the last half of 2005, including many with much
lower severity that have not had time to close, as well as new
claims that are incurred but not yet reported. The remaining
open claims from 2004 and 2003 are primarily claims with
significant injury characteristics resulting in the increase in
outstanding average gross and net reserves per claim.

2005 Compared to 2004:  Claim and claim settlement
expenses decreased to $30.8 million in 2005 from
$35.5 million in 2004. As a percent of premiums earned,
claim and claim settlement expenses decreased to 62.3% in 2005
from 66.2% in 2004. These changes are due to the following:

The decrease in gross premiums earned as discussed above under
     Premiums In Force and Gross Premiums Earned;  

The 2005 results include a $5.5 million decrease in prior
    accident years  reserves for unpaid claim and claim
    settlement expenses compared to the 2004 results, which include
    a $7.0 million decrease in prior accident years 
    reserves. Our estimate for unpaid claim and claim settlement
    expenses decreased in 2005 due to the following: (i) our
    ability to manage and close claims has improved over our
    historical experience; (ii) the re-underwriting of our book
    of business has resulted in claims with profiles different than
    experienced historically; and (iii) our estimate of the
    liability for unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses is
    volatile due to our relatively limited fourteen-year historical
    claim data and our small claim population; and 

Claim costs continued to reflect increasing medical and
    indemnity costs in accident year 2005 as compared to accident
    year 2004 resulting from inflationary pressures. 

2004 Compared to 2003:  Claim and claim settlement
expenses increased to $35.5 million in 2004 from
$27.3 million in 2003. As a percent of premiums earned,
claim and claim settlement expenses increased to 66.2% in 2004
from 58.9% in 2003. These changes are due to the following:

The increase in gross premiums earned as discussed above under
     Premiums In Force and Gross Premiums Earned;  

The 2004 results include a $7.0 million decrease in prior
    accident years  reserves for unpaid claim and claim
    settlement expenses compared to the 2003 results, which include
    a $6.7 million decrease in prior accident years 
    reserves. Our estimate for unpaid claim and claim settlement
    expenses decreased in 2004 due to the following: (i) our
    ability to manage and close claims has improved over our
    historical experience; (ii) the re-underwriting of our book
    of business has resulted in claims with profiles different than
    experienced historically; and (iii) our estimate of the
    liability for unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses is
    volatile due to our relatively limited historical claim data and
    our small claim population; and 

Claim costs continued to reflect increasing medical and
    indemnity costs in accident year 2004 as compared to accident
    year 2003 resulting from inflationary pressures. 

21

Table of Contents   

2006 Outlook:  We expect that claim and claim settlement
expenses will be affected by the following factors:

Claim costs will continue to be affected by: (i) increases
    in medical and indemnity costs resulting from inflationary
    changes; (ii) severity experienced in current and future
    periods in our policyholder base; (iii) changes resulting
    from increases in operating efficiency and effectiveness
    realized through enhancements to our internal processes and
    procedures, including changes to our proprietary computer
    systems; and (iv) legislative changes that affect benefits
    payable under workers  compensation laws; 

Increases (decreases) in premium rates will have a direct
    affect on gross premiums earned without a corresponding effect
    on claim and claim settlement expenses, ultimately affecting
    claim and claim settlement expense as a percent of premiums
    earned. Legislative changes in estimated loss costs, increased
    competition and changes in customer loss experience may offset
    or eliminate the effect of any rate improvement; and 

Continued application of our claims management technology and
    methods to all open claims. 

The ultimate effect of the above factors on claim and claim
settlement expenses is unknown at this time.

Policy Acquisition Costs:  Policy acquisition costs are
costs directly related to writing an insurance policy and
include commissions, state premium taxes, underwriting personnel
costs and expenses, sales and marketing costs and other
underwriting expenses, less ceding commissions received from our
reinsurers. Ceding commissions are amounts that reinsurers pay
to us for placing reinsurance with them.

The following table summarizes policy acquisition costs
(000 s):

Under certain of our excess of loss reinsurance policies, the
reinsurer returns a portion of the premiums we cede as ceding
commissions to reimburse us for our cost of placing and managing
policies. Ceding commissions received under excess of loss
reinsurance policies totaled $2.5 million in 2005 compared
to $2.4 million in 2004 and $1.5 million in 2003.
These ceding commissions reduced our policy acquisition costs.
Excluding the effect of ceding commissions, policy acquisition
costs were $8.0 million in 2005, $8.4 million in 2004
and $8.4 million in 2003. As a percent of gross premiums
earned, direct policy acquisition costs were 13.3% in 2005
compared to 13.3% in 2004 and 15.4% in 2003. The changes in
2005, 2004 and 2003 reflect the following:

Gross premiums earned decreased in 2005 compared to 2004
    resulting in a corresponding decrease in policy acquisition
    costs; 

Commission expense decreased to 6.7% of gross premiums earned in
    2005 from 7.1% in 2004 and 7.3% in 2003. The decreased
    commission rates are the result of the decrease in our new
    business in 2005 relative to 2004 and 2003 and the focus on
    reducing the commissions we pay. In all of our markets, we
    believe the commission rates we pay are marketplace competitive; 

Premium tax expense paid to states was 1.9% of gross premiums
    earned in 2005, 1.8% of gross premiums earned in 2004 and 1.8%
    of gross premiums earned in 2003; and 

Other policy acquisition costs consist of personnel and overhead
    costs, various state and regulatory assessments related to
    second injury funds and mandatory state pools, payroll audit
    vendor costs and 

22

Table of Contents   

the net effect of assigned risk plan activity in the states in
    which we operate. Other policy acquisition costs were affected
    by the following: (i) in 2005, we recorded a $169,000
    increase in other policy acquisition costs reflecting a
    re-allocation of prior year mandatory reinsurance pool expenses,
    compared to a $468,000 increase recorded in 2004 and a
    $1.5 million increase recorded in 2003; and (ii) a
    general change related to the increase or decrease in gross
    premiums earned. Excluding the mandatory pool re-allocation
    discussed above, other policy acquisition costs as a percentage
    of gross premiums earned were 4.4% in 2005, 3.6% in 2004 and
    3.6% in 2003. 

2006 Outlook:  We expect that policy acquisition costs in
2006 will be affected by the following:

Our commission expense will continue to be affected by how much
    new business we write relative to renewal business as we pay
    higher commissions on new policies; 

Premium tax accrual rates will remain relatively constant at
    approximately 2.0% in 2006; and 

Other underwriting expenses will continue to be affected by pool
    reimbursements offset by pool disbursements, the effect of which
    is not known at this time. 

General and Administrative Expenses:  Our general and
administrative expenses include personnel costs, office rent,
certain state administrative charges based on premiums and other
costs and expenses not specific to claim and claim settlement
expenses or policy acquisition costs. All costs associated with
our service business are included in general and administrative
expenses.

General and administrative expenses increased to
$12.7 million in 2005 from $9.0 million in 2004 and
$10.6 million in 2003. As a percent of total revenues,
general and administrative expenses increased to 21.5% in 2005
from 15.4% in 2004 and 20.7% in 2003. These changes reflect the
following:

2006 Outlook:  We expect that general and administrative
expenses will be affected by the following:

Our contract to manage the ARP business and continued growth in
    our service revenue will require staff additions and increase
    our general and administrative expense; 

We will make appropriate investments in infrastructure to
    position us for future growth of our service revenue and to
    continue to support and enhance our core insurance operations; 

Although we have no current plans to open additional offices in
    2006, if growth opportunities warrant opening a new office, we
    will evaluate the opportunity as presented; and 

All expenses will continue to be aggressively managed and
    reduced where appropriate. 

Income Taxes:  We incur federal income taxes on our
combined service organization (RTW and Absentia) operations and
insurance operations (ACIC and BCIC). We incur state income
taxes on the results of our service organization s
operations and incur premium taxes in lieu of state income taxes
for our insurance operations. In certain instances, we may incur
state income taxes on our insurance operations. Additionally,
certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code adversely affect
our taxable income by accelerating recognition and payment of
income taxes. Adjustments to book income generating current tax
liabilities

23

Table of Contents   

include limitations on the deductibility of unpaid claim and
claim settlement expenses, limitations on the deductibility of
unearned premium reserves and limitations on deductions for bad
debt reserves.

In assessing our deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is
more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred
tax assets will not be realized. We consider recent operating
results, the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities,
projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in
making this assessment. At December 31, 2001, we
established a $14.5 million valuation allowance
(allowance) against deferred tax assets resulting in a
corresponding increase in income tax expense. This allowance
decreased by $7.9 million to $6.6 million at
December 31, 2002 as a result of the income we earned in
2002 and federal tax refunds totaling $3.8 million
resulting from a change in Federal tax law. This allowance was
further decreased by $3.0 million in 2003 to
$4.0 million as a result of the income we earned in 2003
and our analysis of projected taxable income. We eliminated the
deferred tax valuation allowance and recorded a
$4.0 million benefit to income taxes in 2004. Income tax
expense for 2005 does not include a benefit from reducing the
valuation allowance since it was fully utilized in prior years.
We expect our deferred tax assets at December 31, 2005 to
be realized as a result of future income and the reversal of
existing taxable temporary differences.

After adjusting for the valuation allowance benefit recorded in
2004 and 2003, income tax expense was $4.1 million for 2005
compared to $2.2 million for 2004 and $2.6 million for
2003. As a percent of income before income taxes, the income tax
expense before any benefit from reducing the allowance was 40.5%
of the income before income taxes in 2005 compared to 26.9% in
2004 and 40.2% in 2003. The income tax expense percentages for
2005, 2004 and 2003 have been affected by: (i) our income
from operations; (ii) the amount of municipal bond income
we have earned; (iii) adjustments for changes in estimates
from prior periods that have affected the
 year-to -year comparison
of income tax expense; and (iv) changes in taxable net
income from our insurance subsidiaries which are subject to only
federal income taxes.

2006 Outlook:  Income tax expense will vary based on:
(i) our results of operations; (ii) the amount of
tax-exempt income we earn; and (iii) the growth of our
service revenue. The ultimate change is unknown at this time.

INVESTMENTS 

Our portfolio of fixed maturity securities at December 31,
2005 included U.S. government securities (51.5%),
mortgage-backed securities (20.2%), municipal securities
(17.0%), commercial paper (9.5%) and asset-backed securities
(1.8%). Our portfolio is managed by an independent investment
manager to maximize our after-tax net investment income without
taking inappropriate credit risk. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, we
sold certain securities within the portfolio to take advantage
of favorable interest rates and realized net investment gains
totaling $580,000, $705,000 and $685,000, respectively. We
conservatively manage our fixed maturity portfolio, investing
only in investment grade (BBB or better rating from Standard and
Poor s) securities of U.S. domiciled issuers. All
securities in our portfolio were rated AAA, AA or A1+ at
December 31, 2005. We do not invest in derivative
securities.

Operating cash flows consist of the deficit or excess of
premiums collected over claim and claim settlement expenses
paid, reduced by payments for reinsurance premiums, as well as
service revenue collected and other operating expenses paid.
Investment cash flows consist of income on existing investments
and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Our
investment portfolio increased $20.3 million to
$107.3 million at December 31, 2005 from
$87.0 million at December 31, 2004. During 2003 and
2004, interest rates declined, leading to significant mortgage
refinancing by consumers, resulting in significant prepayment or
early redemption of our mortgage-backed securities. In order to
reduce the near-term interest rate risk on the portfolio, we
built our cash position throughout 2004 by holding cash received
on mortgage-backed security pre-payments and through sales of
securities, expecting that interest rates would rise in 2005.
During 2005, we began to invest a portion of our cash and cash
equivalents into longer maturing, fixed-rate securities. Cash
and cash equivalents were $21.9 million at
December 31, 2005 compared to $39.4 million at
December 31, 2004. We expect that cash will decrease and
investments will increase in 2006 as we continue to invest
available cash into additional fixed-income securities.

24

Table of Contents   

We record investments on our balance sheet at fair value, with
the corresponding appreciation or depreciation from amortized
cost recorded in shareholders  equity as accumulated other
comprehensive income, net of taxes. Because value is based on
the relationship between the portfolio s stated yields and
prevailing market yields at any given time, interest rate
fluctuations can have a swift and significant impact on the
carrying value of these securities. As a result of classifying
our securities as available-for-sale, and thus carrying them at
fair value, we expect to encounter adjustments in
shareholders  equity as market interest rates and other
factors change. At December 31, 2005, we had a
$1.8 million net unrealized loss on investments at
December 31, 2005 compared to a $572,000 net
unrealized gain at December 31, 2004.

UNPAID CLAIM AND CLAIM SETTLEMENT EXPENSES AND REINSURANCE
RECOVERABLES 

Unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses relate solely to our
insurance operations. Our Absentia division and service business
does not bear claim risk for its customers and carries no unpaid
claim and claim settlement expenses.

At December 31, 2005, net reserves totaled
$76.8 million and included the liability for unpaid claim
and claim settlement expenses of $160.1 million net of
reinsurance recoverables on unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses of $83.3 million. The net reserve at
December 31, 2004 totaled $78.4 million and included
the liability for unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses
totaling $156.1 million net of reinsurance recoverables on
unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses of $77.7 million.

Accounting for workers  compensation insurance operations
requires us to estimate the liability for unpaid claim and claim
settlement expenses (reserves) and the related reinsurance
recoverables, (together, the  net reserves ) at each
balance sheet date. Our reserves at December 31, 2005
represent the estimated total unpaid cost of claim and claim
settlement expenses that cover events that occurred in 2005 and
prior years. These reserves reflect our estimates of the total
costs of claims that were reported, but not yet paid, and the
cost of claims incurred but not yet reported (IBNR). For
reported claims, we establish reserves on a  case 
basis. For IBNR claims, we calculate the difference between:
(i) projected ultimate claim and claim settlement expenses
as determined using generally accepted actuarial standards; and
(ii) case reserves and carry the difference as an IBNR
reserve. By using both estimates of reported claims and IBNR
claims, we estimate the ultimate net reserves for unpaid claim
and claim settlement expenses.

The amount by which estimated net reserves, measured
subsequently by reference to payments and additional estimates,
differ from those originally reported for a period is known as
 development.  Development is unfavorable
(deficient) when losses ultimately settle for more than the
levels at which they were reserved or subsequent estimates
indicate a basis for reserve increases on open claims.
Development is favorable (redundant) when losses ultimately
settle for less than the amount reserved or subsequent estimates
indicate a basis for reducing loss reserves on open claims.
Favorable or unfavorable development of loss reserves is
reflected in earnings in the year realized.

Both internal and independent external actuaries review our net
reserves for adequacy on a periodic basis. These reviews assume
that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current events
and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting
future events. When reviewing net reserves, actuaries analyze
historical data and estimate the effect of various factors on
estimated ultimate reserves including: (i) trends in
general economic conditions, including the effects of medical
and wage inflation; (ii) estimates of trends in claims
frequency and severity; (iii) our and industry historical
loss experience; and (iv) legislative enactments, legal
developments and changes in social and political attitudes.
Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by
both internal and external events, including changes in claims
handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and
legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly
quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. There is no
precise method for subsequently evaluating the effect of any
specific factor on the adequacy of reserves because the eventual
redundancy or deficiency is affected by many factors.
Additionally, there may be significant reporting lags between
the occurrence of the loss and the time it is actually reported
to the insurer. Due to our commencing operations in 1992, we
have limited historical data to estimate our reserves for unpaid
claim and claim settlement expenses and reinsurance recoverables
on unpaid

25

Table of Contents   

claim and claim settlement expenses. Accordingly, we supplement
our experience with external industry data, as adjusted, to
reflect anticipated differences between our results and the
industry.

Estimating the effect that inflation will have on the ultimate
cost of claims is a major risk factor in our workers 
compensation reserve estimates. Future earnings will be affected
by reserve development associated with any changes in our
inflation assumptions. Estimates for the 2005 and 2004 accident
years represent the majority (52% of the net reserves) of the
uncertainty because these claims have the lowest proportionate
amount of paid loss as of December 31, 2005. Our reserve
estimates are most sensitive to changes in the assumption about
inflation for the 2005 and 2004 accident years. Each one percent
(1%) increase or decrease in the inflation rate for each of
these accident years would increase or decrease our net loss
reserve estimates at December 31, 2005 by approximately
$477,000.

Our independent actuary provides us with an annual actuarial
opinion regarding the acceptable range for adequate statutory
reserves based on generally accepted actuarial guidelines. We
record our net reserves by considering a range of estimates
bounded by the high and low point of the range. Within that
range, we record our best estimate. At December 31, 2005,
we established recorded reserves in the upper end of the
actuary s range based on our historical loss reserve
development. The ultimate actual liability may be higher or
lower than reserves recorded.

Our reserves are primarily undiscounted; however, we discounted
reserves for selected claims that have fixed and determinable
future payments at rates ranging from 3.5% to 8.0% in 2005 and
2004. The discount rates are subject to change as market
interest rates change. We use the same rates for
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) as we do for statutory accounting practices
(SAP) in determining our liability. We also reduce the
unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses for estimated amounts
of subrogation.

We continually monitor loss development trends and data to
establish adequate premium rates and to determine reasonable
reserve estimates. Reserves that are based on estimates are
inherently uncertain and represent a significant risk to the
business. We attempt to mitigate this risk by continually
improving and refining our workers  compensation claims
processing practices and by continual monitoring through
actuarial estimation methods.

After taking into account all relevant factors, we believe our
reserves for unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses and
reinsurance recoverables on unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses at December 31, 2005 are adequate to cover the
ultimate net costs of claim and claim settlement expenses at
that date. The ultimate cost of claim and claim settlement
expenses may differ materially from the established reserves,
particularly when claims may not be settled for many years.
Establishing appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain
process and there can be no certainty that currently established
reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent actual
experience. See Notes 1 and 5 in the accompanying
Consolidated Financial Statements. The following two tables
reconcile the beginning and ending insurance reserves, displayed
individually for each of the last three years.

26

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth reserves on a gross (before
reinsurance) basis (000 s):

The following table sets forth reserves on a net (after
reinsurance) basis (000 s):

27

Table of Contents   

The following gross loss reserve development table sets forth
the change, over time, of gross reserves established for claim
and claim settlement expenses at the end of the last ten years.
The table is cumulative and, therefore, ending balances should
not be added since the amount at the end of each calendar year
includes activity for both current and prior years (000 s):

The table above represents the development of balance sheet
gross reserves for 1995 through 2005. The upper portion of the
table shows the cumulative amount paid with respect to the
previously recorded reserves as of the end of each succeeding
year. The lower portion of the table shows the re-estimated
amount of the previously recorded gross reserves, based on
experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate
is either increased or decreased as more information becomes
known about the frequency and severity of claims for individual
years.

The  initial reserves in excess of (less than) re-estimated
reserves  (Amount and Percent rows) represent the aggregate
change in the estimates over all prior years. For example, the
1998 reserve developed a $12.9 million net deficiency over
the course of the succeeding years.

In evaluating this information, it should be noted that each
amount includes the total of all changes in amounts for prior
periods. For example, the amount of redundancy
(deficiency) to losses settled in 2002, but incurred in
1999, is included in the cumulative redundancy
(deficiency) amounts in 1999, 2000 and 2001. This table
does not present accident or policy year development data, which
certain readers may be more accustomed to analyzing. Conditions
and trends that have affected development of the reserves in the
past

28

Table of Contents   

may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it may not
be appropriate to extrapolate redundancies or deficiencies based
on this table.

The following net loss reserve development table sets forth the
change, over time, of net reserves established for claim and
claim settlement expenses at the end of the last ten years. The
table is cumulative and, therefore, ending balances should not
be added since the amount at the end of each calendar year
includes activity for both current and prior years (000 s):

The table above represents the development of balance sheet net
reserves for 1995 through 2005. The top three rows of the table
reconcile gross reserves to net reserves for unpaid claim and
claim settlement expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for
each of the indicated years.

The upper portion of the table shows the cumulative amount paid
with respect to the previously recorded reserves as of the end
of each succeeding year.

The lower portion of the table shows the re-estimated amount of
the previously recorded net reserves, based on experience as of
the end of each succeeding year. The estimate is either
increased or decreased as

29

Table of Contents   

more information becomes known about the frequency and severity
of claims for individual years. For example, for the 1998
calendar year valued as of December 31, 2005, we paid
$66.7 million of the currently estimated $82.7 million
of claim and claim settlement expenses that were incurred
through the end of 1998. Thus, the difference, an estimated
$15.7 million of claim and claim settlement expenses
incurred through 1998, remained unpaid as of December 31,
2005.

The  initial reserves in excess of (less than) re-estimated
reserves  (Amount and Percent rows) represent the aggregate
change in the estimates over all prior years. For example, the
1998 reserve developed a $6.8 million net deficiency over
the course of the succeeding years. The net amount has been
included in income and the changes have been recorded in the
period identified. The cumulative net deficiencies in 2000 and
1999 are the result of reserve development inherent in the
uncertainty in establishing reserves and anticipated loss
trends. As discussed above, due to our relatively limited
historical claim data and small claim population, our estimate
of the liability for net reserves is difficult and volatile. As
discussed further below, the reserve redundancy in 2001 is the
result of accrual reversals resulting from changes in methods of
assessing second injury funds, lower frequency in claims
reported from the estimate at December 31, 2001, and
reductions in amounts expected to be incurred for our
participation in mandatory state and national assigned risk
pools.

In evaluating this information, it should be noted that each
amount includes the total of all changes in amounts for prior
periods. For example, the amount of redundancy to losses settled
in 2002, but incurred in 1999, will be included in the
cumulative redundancy (deficiency) amounts in 1999, 2000,
and 2001. This table does not present accident or policy year
development data, which certain readers may be more accustomed
to analyzing. Conditions and trends that have affected
development of the reserves in the past may not necessarily
occur in the future. Accordingly, it may not be appropriate to
extrapolate redundancies or deficiencies based on this table.

The following table is derived from the net loss reserve
development table and summarizes the effect of reserve
re-estimates, net of reinsurance, on calendar year operations
for the same ten-year period ended December 31, 2005. The
total of each column details the amount of reserve re-estimates
made in the indicated calendar year and shows the accident years
to which the re-estimates are applicable. The amounts in the
total accident year column represent the cumulative reserve
re-estimate (increase) decrease for the indicated accident year
(000 s):

30

Table of Contents   

The 2005 results include a $5.5 million decrease in prior
years  reserves for unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses. Our estimate for unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses decreased in 2005 due to the following: (i) our
ability to manage and close claims has improved over our
historical experience; (ii) the re-underwriting of our book
of business has resulted in claims with profiles different than
experienced historically; and (iii) our estimate of the
liability for unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses is
volatile due to our relatively limited fourteen-year historical
claim data and our small claim population.

The 2004 results include a $7.0 million decrease in prior
years  reserves for unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses. Our estimate for unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses decreased in 2004 due to the following: (i) our
ability to manage and close claims has improved over our
historical experience; (ii) the re-underwriting of our book
of business has resulted in claims with profiles different than
experienced historically; and (iii) our estimate of the
liability for unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses is
difficult and volatile due to our relatively limited historical
claim data and small claim population.

The 2003 results include a $6.7 million decrease in prior
years  reserves for unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses. Our estimate for unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses decreased in 2003 due to the following: (i) the
frequency of claims reported in 2002 and prior years was less
than anticipated when we determined our liability in 2002; and
(ii) our estimate of the liability for unpaid claim and
claim settlement expenses is difficult and volatile due to our
relatively limited historical claim data and small claim
population.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Liquidity refers to our ability to generate sufficient cash
flows to meet the short- and long-term cash requirements of our
operations. Capital resources represent those funds deployed or
available to be deployed to support our business operations.

Our primary sources of cash from operations are insurance
premiums collected, reimbursements under reinsurance contracts,
service revenue collected and net investment income. Our primary
cash requirements consist of payments for: (i) claim and
claim settlement expenses; (ii) reinsurance;
(iii) policy acquisition costs; (iv) general and
administrative expenses; (v) capital expenditures; and
(vi) income taxes. We generate cash from or use cash in
operations based on timing differences between the receipt of
premiums and the payment of claim and claim settlement expenses.
Selected reinsurance retention levels also use cash as a result
of  pre-funding  premiums under the policies or
provide cash upon reimbursement of claim payments. In 2005 and
2004, reinsurance reimbursements from our $25,000 to $300,000
excess of loss reinsurance agreement, which began in mid 1998
and ran-off in 2001, offset similar payments to claimants for
those years. This trend will continue in 2006. We further expect
that cash and cash equivalents will decrease from levels
reported at December 31, 2005 as we take advantage of the
anticipated increase in interest rates to purchase fixed
maturity investments. Available cash is invested in either
short-term cash and cash equivalents or longer-term
available-for-sale securities pending future payments for such
expenses as medical and indemnity benefits and other operating
expenses. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, a money
market fund that invests primarily in short-term
U.S. Government securities, commercial paper with
maturities of three months or less and overnight repurchase
agreements secured by U.S. Treasury or U.S. Government
Agency securities.

Cash provided by operating activities was $4.9 million for
2005. This is primarily a result of net income of
$6.0 million and an increase of $4.0 million in unpaid
claim and claim settlement expenses offset by an increase in
amounts due from reinsurers of $4.9 million. Net cash used
in investing activities was $23.0 million due primarily to
$45.9 million in purchases of securities offset by
$11.2 million in proceeds from sales of securities and
$12.5 million in maturities of investments. Net cash
provided by financing activities was $578,000 due to the
exercise of stock options in 2005.

Our need for additional capital is primarily the result of
regulations that require certain ratios of regulatory or
statutory capital to premiums written in our insurance
subsidiary as defined by state regulatory bodies and insurance
rating agencies. Raising additional permanent capital would
further reduce our ratio of premium to capital and provide a
solid base for the future growth of our insurance subsidiary. As
an alternative to raising additional permanent capital, certain
reinsurance contracts could be used on an interim basis that

31

Table of Contents   

would have the effect of reducing the ratio of premiums to
capital and surplus in ACIC to satisfy state regulatory
requirements.

Minnesota state insurance regulations limit distributions,
including dividends, from our insurance subsidiary to us. Under
Minnesota insurance law regulating the payment of dividends, in
any twelve month period, ACIC can pay a dividend to us from its
earned surplus (unassigned surplus) not to exceed the greater of
10% of ACIC s total surplus or ACIC s prior
years  net income reduced for realized capital gains net of
income taxes. At December 31, 2005, ACIC could pay a
dividend to us totaling $4.1 million without the approval
of the Minnesota Department of Commerce (See Note 9 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). ACIC has never paid
a dividend to us, and we intend to retain capital in the
insurance subsidiaries.

On September 15, 1998, our Board of Directors approved a
share repurchase program authorizing us to repurchase, from time
to time, up to $4,000,000 of RTW, Inc. common stock. No shares
were repurchased under this program in 2005 or 2004. We
repurchased 18,619 shares in 2003 for approximately
$37,000. We repurchased these shares on the open market or
through private transactions based upon market conditions and
availability. The repurchased shares will be used for employee
stock option and purchase plans and other corporate purposes.

At December 31, 2005, investments with a market value of
$15.8 million were held as statutory deposits and pledged
as collateral. Investments held as statutory deposits and
pledged as collateral do not currently have an adverse effect on
our liquidity. We believe that cash flow generated by our
operations and our cash and investment balances will be
sufficient to fund continuing operations and capital
expenditures for the next twelve months.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 

Our contractual obligations consist solely of operating leases
for our facilities. Future minimum (base) rental payments
required under the leases, as of December 31, 2005, are as
follows (000 s):

INTEREST RATE RISK 

Our fixed maturity investments are subject to interest rate
risk. Increases and decreases in prevailing interest rates
generally translate into decreases and increases in the fair
value of these instruments. Also, fair values of interest rate
sensitive instruments may be affected by the credit worthiness
of the issuer, prepayment options, relative values of
alternative instruments, the liquidity of the instrument and
other general market conditions. We regularly evaluate interest
rate risk in order to evaluate the appropriateness of our
investments.

An increase of 100 basis points in prevailing interest
rates would reduce the fair value of our interest rate sensitive
instruments by approximately $3.3 million.

The effect of interest rate risk on potential near-term fair
value was determined based on commonly used models. The models
project the impact of interest rate changes on factors such as
duration, prepayments, put options and call options. Fair value
was determined based on the net present value of cash flows or
duration estimates, using a representative set of likely future
interest rate scenarios.

NAIC RISK-BASED CAPITAL STANDARDS 

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners
(NAIC) has risk-based capital standards to determine the
capital requirements of a property and casualty insurance
carrier based upon the risks inherent

32

Table of Contents   

in its operations. These standards require computing a
risk-based capital amount that is compared to a carrier s
actual total adjusted capital. The computation involves applying
factors to various financial data to address four primary risks:
asset risk; insurance underwriting risk; credit risk; and
off-balance sheet risk. These standards provide for regulatory
intervention when the percent of total adjusted capital to
authorized control level risk-based capital is below certain
levels. Based upon the risk-based capital standards, our percent
of total adjusted capital is in excess of authorized control
level risk-based capital.

REGULATION 

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation
by governmental agencies in the states in which we operate, and
will be subject to such regulation in any state in which we
provide workers  compensation products and services in the
future. State regulatory agencies have broad administrative
power with respect to all aspects of our business, including
premium rates, benefit levels, policy forms, dividend payments,
capital adequacy and the amount and type of investments. These
regulations are primarily intended to protect covered employees
and policyholders rather than the insurance company. Both the
legislation covering insurance companies and the regulations
adopted by state agencies are subject to change. At
December 31, 2005, ACIC was licensed to do business in
twenty-three states while BCIC was licensed only in Minnesota.

EFFECT OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

In June 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) finalized FASB Staff Position (FSP) Emerging
Issues Task Force
(EITF) Issue  03-1 -a
and issued re-titled FSP Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard (SFAS) 115-1,  The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain
Investments . The FSP provides guidance on the recognition
of impairments deemed other-than-temporary. FSP 115-1 is
effective for other-than-temporary impairment analysis conducted
in periods beginning after December 15, 2005. We believe
that our current policy for other-than-temporary impairments
complies with FSP 115-1. Accordingly, the adoption of this
standard has not had a material effect on the consolidated
financial statements.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,
 Share-Based Payment,  which is a revision of
SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation . SFAS No. 123R requires companies
to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange
for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair
value of the award. That cost will be recognized over the period
during which an employee is required to provide service in
exchange for the award (i.e., the requisite service period),
which is usually equal to the vesting period. In accordance with
the transitional guidance given in the statement, compensation
cost is recognized on or after the required effective date for
the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite
service period has not yet been rendered, based on the
grant-date fair value of those awards calculated under
SFAS No. 123 for either recognition or pro forma
disclosure requirements. In April 2005, the Securities and
Exchange Commission delayed the effective date of implementing
SFAS No. 123R until fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 2005. We are required to adopt SFAS 123R in
the first quarter of 2006. We do not expect the adoption of
SFAS No. 123R will have a material effect on our
financial statements.

In September 2005, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee
issued Statement of Position 05-1,  Accounting by Insurance
Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with
Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts  (SOP
05-1). SOP 05-1 provides guidance on accounting by insurance
enterprises for deferred acquisition costs on internal
replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than
those specifically described in FAS 97,  Accounting
and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration
Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of
Investments . SOP 05-1 defines an internal replacement as a
modification in product benefits, features, rights or coverages
that occurs by the exchange of a contract for a new contract, or
by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by
election of a feature or coverage within a contract. SOP 05-1 is
effective for internal replacements occurring in the fiscal year
beginning after December 15, 2006, with earlier adoption
encouraged. The Company only issues workers  compensation
insurance policies, which are a statutory coverage and are not
subject to internal

33

Table of Contents   

replacement or modification in product benefits, features, right
or coverages. The Company does not expect the impact of adoption
SOP 05-1 to have a significant effect on operations, financial
condition or liquidity.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Information included in this Report on
Form  10-K  which
can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such
as  may,   will,   expect, 
 anticipate,   estimate,  or
 continue  or the negative thereof or other variations
thereon or comparable terminology constitutes
 forward-looking information  within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual
results, performance or achievements to be materially different
from any future results, performance or achievements expressed
or implied by the forward-looking statements. The following
important factors, among others, in some cases have affected and
in the future could affect our actual results and could cause
our actual financial performance to differ materially from that
expressed in any forward-looking statement: (i) our ability
to retain renewing policies and write new business with a B+
(Very Good, Secure) rating from A.M. Best; (ii) our ability
to extend our workers  compensation services to
self-insured employers and other alternative markets and to
operate profitably in providing these services; (iii) our
ability to continue to maintain or increase rates on insured
products in the markets in which we remain or alternatively
non-renew or turn away improperly priced business; (iv) the
ability of our reinsurers to honor their obligations to us;
(v) our ability to accurately predict claim development;
(vi) our ability to provide our proprietary products and
services to customers successfully; (vii) our ability to
manage both our existing claims and new claims in an effective
manner; (viii) our experience with claims frequency and
severity; (ix) medical inflation; (x) competition and
the regulatory environment in which we operate;
(xi) general economic and business conditions;
(xii) our ability to obtain and retain reinsurance at a
reasonable cost; (xiii) changes in workers 
compensation regulation by states, including changes in mandated
benefits or insurance company regulation; (xiv) interest
rate changes; and (xv) other factors as noted in our other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This
discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive but is
designed to highlight important factors that may affect our
future performance.

ITEM 7A.  
     
      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
    RISK   

Information with respect to Disclosures about Market Risk is
contained in the Section entitled  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Interest Rate Risk  under
Item 7 of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

34

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8.  
     
      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

35

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

RTW, Inc.

Minneapolis. Minnesota

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
RTW, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
and the related consolidated statements of income,
shareholders  equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an
audit of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control
over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not
for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of RTW, Inc. at December 31, 2005 and
2004, and the consolidated results of its operations and its
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP 

February 14, 2006

Minneapolis, Minnesota

36

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

December 31, 2005 and 2004 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

37

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Consolidated Statements of Income 

Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

38

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity 

Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

39

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

40

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 

Note 1   
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Organization    RTW, Inc. (RTW) provides
disability and absence management services, directed today
primarily at workers  compensation to: (i) employers
insured through our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, American
Compensation Insurance Company (ACIC) and its wholly-owned
insurance subsidiary, Bloomington Compensation Insurance Company
(BCIC); (ii) self-insured employers on a fee-for-service
basis; (iii) state-sponsored assigned risk plans on a
percent of premium basis; (iv) other insurance companies;
and (v) to agents and employers on a consulting basis,
charging hourly fees through RTW and its
Absentia  sm  
division. ACIC offers guaranteed cost workers  compensation
insurance to employers located primarily in Minnesota, Michigan
and Colorado and is licensed in twenty-three states. BCIC began
underwriting business in October 2005 and offers guaranteed-cost
workers  compensation insurance to selected employers only
in Minnesota. Collectively,  we,   our  and
 us  refer to RTW, ACIC, BCIC and Absentia in these
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We benefit from our ability to reduce workers  compensation
and disability system costs and provide employers the ability to
control their workers  compensation, disability and absence
programs. Our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in Minnesota
and operated primarily in Minnesota, Michigan and Colorado in
2005, 2004 and 2003. Absentia serviced customers in six states
in 2004 and expanded to 18 states by December 31,
2005. In 2002, we non-renewed all insurance policies in our
Missouri and Massachusetts regions and completed our run-off of
policies in these regions by February 2003.

The following explains the accounting policies we use to arrive
at some of the more significant amounts in our financial
statements.

Accounting Principles    We prepare our
financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP).

Consolidation    Our consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of RTW, ACIC and BCIC. We
eliminate all inter-company accounts and transactions in
consolidation.

Use of Estimates    We make estimates and
assumptions that affect our reported assets and liabilities, our
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the financial
statement date and our recorded revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Our most significant estimates are those
relating to our reinsurance recoverables on unpaid claim and
claim settlement expenses, unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses, income taxes, deferred income taxes and an accrual for
premium adjustments. We continually review our estimates and
assumptions and make adjustments as necessary. Our actual
results could vary significantly from the estimates we make.

Investments    We invest entirely in fixed
maturity investments and classify our investments as
available-for-sale.

Available-for-Sale Investments:  Our available-for-sale
investments are carried at fair value with changes in unrealized
gains or losses, net of deferred taxes, reported as other
comprehensive income. The fair values of our investments are
determined based upon quoted market prices as obtained through
commercial pricing services or brokers who provide estimated
fair values.

Realized Investment Gains and Losses:  Realized investment
gains and losses are identified separately in our Consolidated
Statements of Income. Cost of investments sold is determined by
the specific identification method.

We continually monitor the difference between investment cost
and fair value for each of our securities. If any security
experiences a decline in value that is determined to be other
than temporary, we reduce the

41

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

security s carrying value for the decline and record a
realized loss in the Consolidated Statements of Income. No
securities were reduced for declines in fair value in 2005, 2004
or 2003.

Cash and Cash Equivalents    We consider all
highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or
less when purchased to be cash equivalents.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments    A number
of our significant assets and liabilities (including reinsurance
recoverables, deferred policy acquisition costs, furniture and
equipment and unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses) are
not considered financial instruments for disclosure purposes.
Our premiums receivable and other assets and liabilities that
are considered financial instruments are generally of a
short-term nature. The carrying values of these instruments
approximate their fair values. The carrying values and fair
values of investments are disclosed in Note 3.

Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs    The costs
directly related to writing an insurance policy are referred to
as policy acquisition costs and consist of commissions, state
premium taxes and other direct underwriting expenses. Although
these costs arise when we issue a policy, we defer certain
costs, principally commissions and state premium taxes. These
costs are amortized to expense as premium revenue is recognized
and are reported net of ceding commissions in the Consolidated
Statements of Income.

If deferred policy acquisition costs were to exceed the sum of
unearned premiums net of reinsurance and related anticipated
investment income less expected claim and claim settlement
expenses, we would immediately expense the excess costs.

Depreciation    We depreciate furniture and
equipment on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
life of the asset (five to ten years). Furniture and equipment
are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation of
$5.1 million and $4.7 million at December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively.

Income Taxes    We compute all income tax
amounts using the liability method. Under this method, deferred
tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax
consequences of temporary differences between the tax basis of
assets and liabilities and their reported amounts using
presently enacted tax rates. Deferred tax assets are recognized
for tax credit and net operating loss carry-forwards, reduced by
a valuation allowance which is established when it is  more
likely than not  that some portion or all of the deferred
tax assets will not be realized. The effect on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or regulations
is recognized as income in the period that includes the
enactment date.

Unpaid Claim and Claim Settlement Expenses   
Claim expenses refer to amounts that we paid or expect to pay to
claimants for insured events that have occurred. The costs of
investigating, resolving and processing claims are referred to
as claim settlement expenses. We record these expenses, net of
amounts recoverable under reinsurance contracts, as  Claim
and claim settlement expenses  in the Consolidated
Statements of Income.

Our  Unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses 
represent reserves established for the estimated total unpaid
cost of claim and claim settlement expenses for insured events
that occurred on or prior to each balance sheet date. The
reserves are primarily undiscounted; however, we discounted
selected claims that have fixed or determinable future payments
by $342,000 in 2005 and $344,000 in 2004 using discount factors
ranging from 3.5% to 8.0%. These reserves reflect our estimates
of the total cost of claims that were reported, but not yet
paid, and the cost of claims incurred but not yet reported. Our
estimates consider such variables as past loss experience,
current claim trends and prevailing social, economic and legal
environments. We have a limited amount of historical data to use
in estimating our reserves for unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses because we commenced operations in 1992. As a result,
we supplement our experience with external industry data, as
adjusted to reflect anticipated differences between our results
and the industry. We reduce the unpaid claim and claim
settlement expenses for estimated amounts of subrogation.

42

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

We believe our reserves for unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses are adequate to cover the ultimate costs of claim and
claim settlement expenses. The ultimate cost of claim and claim
settlement expenses may differ from the established reserves,
particularly when claims may not be settled for many years.
Reserves for unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses and
assumptions used in their development are continually reviewed.
We record adjustments to prior estimates of unpaid claim and
claim settlement expenses, which may be material, in operations
in the year in which the adjustments are made.

Premiums Earned    Premiums on workers 
compensation insurance policies are our largest source of
revenue. The premium we charge a policyholder is a function of
its payroll, industry and prior workers  compensation
claims experience. In underwriting a policy, we receive
policyholder payroll estimates for the ensuing year. We record
premiums written on an installment basis, matching billing to
the policyholder, and earn premiums on a daily basis over the
life of each insurance policy based on the payroll estimate. We
record the excess of premiums billed over premiums earned for
each policy as unearned premiums on our Consolidated Balance
Sheet. When a policy expires, we audit employer payrolls for the
policy period and adjust the estimated payroll and the
policyholder s premium to its actual value. The result is a
 final audit  adjustment recorded to premiums earned
when the adjustment becomes known. We also estimate the final
audit amount to be billed on unexpired and expired unaudited
policies and record a final audit receivable included in
premiums receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Final
audit premiums recognized during the period include billed final
audit premiums plus (or minus) the change in estimate for final
audit premiums on unexpired and expired unaudited policies.

Stock-Based Compensation    Had we calculated
compensation expense for our option grants under the 1994 Stock
Plan and stock issuances under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan
(ESPP) based on the fair value method described in
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
(SFAS) No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  our net income and basic and dilutive net
income per share would approximate the following pro forma
amounts (in 000 s, except per share data):

The weighted average fair value of options granted under the
ESPP and 1994 Stock Plan during 2005, 2004 and 2003 is estimated
at $1.84, $2.13 and $1.48, respectively, on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
assumptions: no dividend yield; volatility of 26.1% to 33.8% in
2005, 41.0% to 73.8% in 2004 and 115.3% to 131.5% in 2003;
risk-free interest rates ranging from 1.1% to 4.2%; and an
expected life of 1 to 54 years.

Effect of Recent Accounting Pronouncements    In
June 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) finalized FASB Staff Position (FSP) Emerging
Issues Task Force
(EITF) Issue  03-1-a 
and issued  re-titled 
FSP Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
(SFAS)  115-1, 
 The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its
Application to Certain Investments . The FSP provides
guidance on the recognition of impairments deemed
other-than-temporary. FSP
 115-1  is effective for
other-than-temporary impairment analysis conducted in periods
beginning after December 15, 2005. We believe that our
current

43

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

policy on other-than-temporary impairments complies with FSP
 115-1.  Accordingly, the
adoption of this standard has not had a material effect on the
consolidated financial statements.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,
 Share-Based Payment,  which is a revision of
SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation . SFAS No. 123R requires companies
to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange
for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair
value of the award. That cost will be recognized over the period
during which an employee is required to provide service in
exchange for the award, i.e., the requisite service period,
which is usually equal to the vesting period. In accordance with
the transitional guidance given in the statement, compensation
cost is recognized on or after the required effective date for
the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite
service period has not yet been rendered, based on the
grant-date fair value of those awards calculated under
SFAS No. 123 for either recognition or pro forma
disclosure requirements. In April 2005, the Securities and
Exchange Commission delayed the effective date of implementing
SFAS No. 123R until fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 2005. We are required to adopt SFAS 123R in
the first quarter of 2006.

We intend to use the modified prospective transitional method
upon adoption. Under the modified prospective method, there
would be no compensation charge for vested awards that are
outstanding on the effective date of SFAS No. 123R.
Unvested awards that are outstanding on the effective date would
be charged to expense over the remaining vesting period.
Accordingly, we anticipate that we will recognize approximately
$114,000, $87,000 and $18,000 of incremental compensation costs
in 2006, 2007 and 2008 respectively related to unvested awards
outstanding at December 31, 2005.

In September 2005, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee
issued Statement of Position
 05-1,   Accounting
by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in
Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
Contracts  (SOP
 05-1).  SOP
 05-1  provides guidance
on accounting by insurance enterprises for deferred acquisition
costs on internal replacements of insurance and investment
contracts other than those specifically described in
FAS 97,  Accounting and Reporting by Insurance
Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized
Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments . SOP
 05-1  defines an
internal replacement as a modification in product benefits,
features, rights or coverages that occurs by the exchange of a
contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or
rider to a contract, or by election of a feature or coverage
within a contract. SOP
 05-1  is effective for
internal replacements occurring in the fiscal rear beginning
after December 15, 2006, with earlier adoption encouraged.
The Company only issues workers  compensation insurance
policies, which are a statutory coverage and are not subject to
internal replacement or modification in product benefits,
features, right or coverages. The Company does not expect the
impact of adoption SOP 05-1 to have a significant effect on
operations, financial condition or liquidity.

Note 2      
     
     INCOME PER SHARE  

Basic income per share (IPS) is computed by dividing net
income by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding for the period. Diluted IPS is computed by dividing
net income by the weighted average number of common shares and
dilutive securities outstanding for the period. Dilutive
securities consist of stock options. Dilutive securities are
considered outstanding from the date of grant, after applying
the treasury stock method for determining the dilutive effect.

44

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and
denominators of basic and diluted income per share:

Note 3      
     
     INVESTMENTS  

Valuation of Investments    The following tables
present amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses and
estimated fair values of our available-for-sale securities
(000 s):

45

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

The gross unrealized losses and fair value of our investments
aggregated by the length of time that individual securities have
been in a continuous unrealized loss position are as follows
(000 s):

The gross unrealized loss in all cases is the result of an
increase in interest rates and is not the result of
deterioration in the credit quality of the issuers. We believe
that the unrealized losses on our fixed maturity securities do
not represent other than temporary impairments. All long-term
issues carry a credit quality of AAA, AA or A1+
(Standard & Poors). We have the ability and intent to
hold all of these securities to recovery, which in certain
circumstances may extend to maturity. We consider all relevant
facts and circumstances in evaluating whether the impairment of
a security is other than temporary. Relevant facts and
circumstances we consider include: (i) the length of time
the fair value has been below cost; (ii) the financial
position and access to capital of the issuer, including the
current and future effect of any specific events; and
(iii) our ability and intent to hold the security until it
recovers in value. To the extent we determine that a security is
deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, the difference
between amortized cost and fair value would be charged to
earnings.

Deposits    Included in investments are
U.S. government securities and cash on deposit with various
regulatory authorities, as required by law, with a fair value of
$15.8 million and $16.2 million at December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively.

Additionally, included in investments are U.S. government
securities pledged as collateral against a letter of credit
provided to an insurer, with a fair value of $2.0 million
and $1.9 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

46

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

Fixed Maturities by Maturity Date    The
following table presents the amortized cost and fair value of
investments by contractual maturity at December 31, 2005.
Actual maturities may differ from those stated as a result of
calls and prepayments (000 s):

Net Investment Income    Net investment income
includes income from the following sources (000 s):

Note 4   
REINSURANCE 

Our consolidated financial statements reflect the effects of
ceded reinsurance transactions. We purchase reinsurance to
protect us from potential losses in excess of the level we are
willing to accept. Our primary reinsurance is excess of loss
coverage that limits our per-incident exposure.

We report reinsurance related balances on a  gross 
basis on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, resulting in
reinsurance recoverable amounts on unpaid and on paid claim and
claim settlement expenses recorded as assets. We estimate
amounts recoverable from reinsurers in a manner consistent with
the claim liability associated with the reinsured policy.

47

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

The following table summarizes our reinsurance coverage (all
losses ceded on a per occurrence basis):

For claims occurring after June 30, 1998, we further
limited our per incident exposure by purchasing excess of loss
coverage for losses from $25,000 to the lesser of $300,000 or
the WCRA selected retention level in Minnesota and from $25,000
to $300,000 in other states from a single reinsurer. This
agreement was finalized after its effective date and activity
occurring from July 1, 1998 through September 30, 1998
was recorded on a retrospective basis resulting in the deferral
of a gain totaling $2.0 million at December 31, 1998.
We amortized $400,000 of the deferred gain as a reduction of
claim and claim settlement expenses in each of 2002, 2001 and
2000 and $740,000 in 1999, resulting in an un-amortized deferred
gain of $49,000 at December 31, 2005. The deferred gain is
being amortized into income using the effective interest rate
inherent in the amounts paid to the reinsurer and the estimated
timing and amounts of recoveries from the reinsurer. Activity
occurring on or after October 1, 1998 is recorded
prospectively. This contract was terminated effective
December 31, 2000; however, the policy was effective in
2001 for policies in force at December 31, 2000 through
expiration, not to exceed fifteen months after the effective
termination date. Policies written or renewing after
December 31, 2000 are not covered under this lower level
excess of loss reinsurance policy.

Reinsurance contracts do not relieve us from our obligations to
policyholders. We expect reinsurers to which we have ceded
reinsurance to honor their obligations. Failure of these
reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to
us. We do not anticipate any such losses and accordingly, no
provision for amounts deemed uncollectible are included in our
financial statements. We attempt to minimize our exposure to
significant losses from reinsurer insolvency by monitoring the
financial condition of our reinsurers. The reinsurance
recoverable on unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses
associated with reinsurers are as follows (000 s):

48

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

The effect of ceded reinsurance on premiums written and claim
and claim settlement expenses are as follows (000 s):

During 2003, we re-evaluated and lowered our estimate for excess
of loss unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses by
$15.1 million, which inured to the benefit of our
reinsurers. Excluding the effect of this benefit, our ceded
losses to reinsurers would have been $8.8 million.

The reinsurance recoverable on paid claim and claim settlement
expenses consists primarily of receivables from paid claim and
claim settlement expenses that were submitted but not yet
reimbursed by reinsurers at December 31, 2005 and 2004.

Note 5   
UNPAID CLAIM AND CLAIM SETTLEMENT EXPENSES 

As described in Note 1, we establish unpaid claim and claim
settlement expense reserves on reported and unreported claims
for insured losses. Establishing appropriate reserves is an
inherently uncertain process. Furthermore, estimating ultimate
reserves is difficult due to our relatively limited historical
claim data and small claim population. Estimates are further
complicated by the extended periods of time that elapse between
the date losses occur and the date losses are reported and
ultimately settled. Reserve estimates are regularly reviewed and
updated, using the most current information available. Any
resulting adjustments, which may be material, are reflected in
current operations.

49

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

The following table represents a reconciliation of beginning and
ending unpaid claim and claim settlement expense reserves for
each of the last three years (000 s):

Changes in estimates of unpaid claim and claim settlement
expenses for prior years decreased the provision for claim and
claim settlement expenses by $5.5 million,
$7.0 million and $6.7 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

Our estimate for unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses
decreased in 2005 due to the following: (i) we improved our
effectiveness in managing open claims, closing them earlier than
originally anticipated; and (ii) our estimate of the
liability for unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses is
difficult and volatile due to our relatively limited historical
claim data and small claim population.

Our estimate for reinsurance recoverables increased in 2005 due
to: (i) increasing our large loss development factors based
on changes in industry data offset by; (ii) payments and
the related recoveries on prior year ceded claim and claim
settlement expenses.

Our estimate for unpaid claim and claim settlement expenses
decreased in 2004 due to the following: (i) the frequency
of claims reported in 2004 for 2003 and prior years was less
than anticipated when we determined our liability in 2003; and
(ii) our estimate of the liability for unpaid claim and
claim settlement expenses is difficult and volatile due to our
relatively limited historical claim data and small claim
population.

Our estimate for reinsurance recoverables increased in 2004 due
to the growth in our gross premiums earned in 2004 offset by
payments and the related recoveries on prior year ceded claim
and claim settlement expenses.

We recovered $5.0 million, $6.6 million and
$15.3 million from reinsurers during 2005, 2004 and 2003
respectively.

50

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

Note 6   
NOTES PAYABLE 

In March 2000, we borrowed $8.0 million under a term loan
agreement to fund the repurchase of common stock from certain of
our shareholders. We paid $1.0 million in principal on the
term loan in 2000, an additional $2.5 million in 2001,
$3.3 million in 2002 and the remaining $1.2 million in
2003. We paid interest at an adjusted LIBOR rate on the term
loan (adjusted LIBOR was 4.66% at December 31, 2002). The
term loan was paid in full in September 2003.

Note 7   
INCOME TAXES 

Income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following
(000 s):

Our income tax benefit differs from the federal statutory rate
as follows (000 s):

Income tax expense for 2005 and 2004 included adjustments for
differences between our tax provision computation and final tax
expense based on our filed tax returns.

51

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

Differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and
their reported amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheets that
will result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years are
called temporary differences. The tax effects of temporary
differences that give rise to net deferred tax assets, included
within other assets, are as follows (000 s):

In assessing our ability to realize the future benefit of
deferred tax assets, we consider recent operating results, the
scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future
taxable income and tax planning strategies. The valuation
allowance decreased to $4.0 million in 2003 based on our
projected taxable income and available tax planning strategies.
In 2004, we eliminated the remaining allowance as we expect the
entire deferred tax asset will be realized as a result of income
and the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences in
the future

Income taxes receivable were approximately $381,000 and $733,000
at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and are
included in other assets.

Note 8   
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND PLANS 

Stock Based Compensation    We account for our
stock-based compensation plans, the RTW, Inc. 1995 Employee
Stock Purchase Plan and Trust (ESPP), the 1994 Stock Plan and
the 2005 Stock Plan, using Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25 (APB 25),  Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,  and related Interpretations. Under APB 25,
compensation cost for stock options is measured as the excess,
if any, of the quoted market price of our stock at the date of
the grant over the amount an employee must pay to acquire the
stock.

52

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan    The ESPP
provides employees the opportunity to purchase shares of our
stock at 85% of the fair value based on the lesser of the
beginning or ending share price for each plan year as set forth
in the plan. In 2003, the shares reserved for distribution under
the plan were increased from 100,000 to 150,000 shares. In
2004, the ESPP was amended to allow the issuance of stock within
10 years of any increase in the number of shares authorized
to be issued under the plan. In 2005, the shares reserved for
distribution under the plan were further increased from 150,000
to 200,000 shares. The ESPP terminates in 2013 and will be
carried out in phases, each consisting of one year or a
different period of time approved by the Board of Directors. Any
employee completing two weeks of service prior to commencing a
phase of the plan may participate. Employees may elect to
contribute from $10 to 10% of monthly salary to the plan through
payroll withholdings. The following summarizes shares purchased
and purchase prices for each phase in the most recent three
years completed through 2005:

The eleventh one-year phase began in April 2005 and expires in
April 2006.

Our liability for employee contributions withheld at
December 31, 2005 and 2004 for the purchase of shares in
April 2006 and April 2005 under the ESPP was $116,000 and
$71,000, respectively.

1994 Stock Plan    The 1994 Stock Plan provides
for awards of incentive stock options (as defined in
section 422 of the Internal Revenue code) and non-qualified
stock options. In July 1998, the Board of Directors increased
the shares reserved for distribution under the plan to
1,000,000. Option price, option term, vesting provisions and
other limits and restrictions are determined at the time of
grant by the Board of Directors or, if established, by a
separate committee. The exercise price for all options granted
was the market price of the common stock at the date of grant.
The ability to award incentive stock options under this Plan
terminated in June 2004.

53

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

Options granted, exercised, canceled and outstanding under the
1994 Stock Plan are as follows:

Incentive stock options expire ten years from the date of grant
and substantially all are subject to continued employment with
us. Each of the non-qualified options expires ten years from the
date of grant with the exception of certain options granted to
the founder of the Company that expire five years from the date
of grant. Options are generally subject to vesting provisions
that restrict exercise of the option.

2005 Stock Plan    The 2005 Stock Plan was
approved by the shareholders in June 2005 and provides for
awards of incentive stock options (as defined in
section 422 of the Internal Revenue code) and non-qualified
stock options. Option price, option term, vesting provisions and
other limits and restrictions are determined at the time of
grant by the Board of Directors or, if established, by a
separate committee. The exercise price for all options granted
was the market price of the common stock at the date of grant.

Options granted, exercised, canceled and outstanding under the
2005 Stock Plan are as follows:

Incentive stock options expire ten years from the date of grant
and substantially all are subject to continued employment with
us. Options are generally subject to vesting provisions that
restrict exercise of the option.

54

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

The following table summarizes the options outstanding and
exercisable under both the 1994 Stock Plan and the 2005 Stock
Plan at December 31, 2005:

Employment Contracts    We entered into an
employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive
Officer, Jeffrey B. Murphy beginning December 17, 2003.
Under the original agreement, Mr. Murphy received a base
salary of $250,000, subject to review annually for increase by
our Board of Directors. In addition to base salary,
Mr. Murphy was eligible for bonuses, expense reimbursements
and health, dental, life and disability insurance consistent
with that provided to other officers and employees.
Additionally, Mr. Murphy was granted 100,000 options at
$6.00 per share which vest over four years on
March 12, 2004. Mr. Murphy s annual base salary
was increased to $275,000 effective April 1, 2005 with the
remaining terms of his agreement continuing unchanged.

Combined Retirement Plan    We combine our
401(k) Retirement Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plan
(ESOP) into a single KSOP retirement plan. The KSOP retains
the features of each separate component except for eligibility
and vesting provisions. Under the plan, employees become
eligible to participate in the plan on the first day of the
month after beginning employment and attaining age 21.

Other Employee Benefit Plans    We maintained
bonus plans in 2005, 2004 and 2003 under which all employees,
including officers, were eligible for a bonus based on our
operating results. These bonuses aggregated $1.5 million,
$1.3 million and $941,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

Note 9   
SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

On September 15, 1998, our Board of Directors approved a
share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to
$4.0 million of RTW, Inc. common stock. We may repurchase
shares on the open market

55

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

or through private transactions depending upon market conditions
and availability. Through December 31, 2005 we repurchased
approximately 395,000 shares for $2.8 million. We
expect to use repurchased shares for employee stock option and
purchase plans and other corporate purposes.

Shareholder Rights Plan    In April 1997, we
adopted a shareholder rights plan and declared a dividend of one
right for each outstanding share of common stock to shareholders
of record at the close of business on June 30, 1997. The
rights become exercisable only after any person or group (the
Acquiring Person) becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of
the voting power of our common stock. Shares held by our
Chairman Emeritus, David C. Prosser, and his wife are excluded
from the computation for determining whether a person is an
Acquiring Person. Each right entitles its registered holder to
purchase from us one one-hundredth share of a new Series A
Junior Participating Preferred Stock, no par value, at a price
of $85 per one one-hundredth share, subject to adjustment.
If any Acquiring Person acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or
more of our voting power, each right will entitle its holder
(other than such Acquiring Person) to purchase, at the then
current purchase price of the right, that number of shares of
our common stock having a market value of two times the purchase
price of the right, subject to certain possible adjustments. In
addition, if we are acquired in a merger or other business
combination transaction, each right will entitle its holder to
purchase, at the then current purchase price of the right, that
number of common shares of the acquiring company having a market
value of two times the purchase price of the right. Following
the acquisition of a beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our
outstanding common stock by any Acquiring Person and prior to an
acquisition by any Acquiring Person of 50% or more of our
outstanding common stock, our Board of Directors may exchange
the outstanding rights (other than rights owned by such
Acquiring Person), in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of
one share of common stock, or one one-hundredth share of
Preferred Stock (or equivalent securities) per right, subject to
adjustment. We may redeem the rights, in whole, at
$.001 per right, at any time prior to an acquisition by any
Acquiring Person of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock
and prior to the expiration of the rights. The rights expire on
April 17, 2007, unless extended or earlier redeemed by us.

Dividend Restrictions    Dividends are paid as
determined by our Board of Directors. No cash dividends have
ever been paid by us.

Our ability to pay cash dividends to shareholders may depend
upon the amount of dividends received from our insurance
subsidiary. ACIC s ability to pay dividends is restricted
by law and in certain cases may be subject to approval of the
insurance regulatory authorities of Minnesota.

Under Minnesota insurance law regulating the payment of
dividends by ACIC unless otherwise approved by the Commissioner
of the Minnesota Department of Commerce (Commissioner),
dividends must be paid solely from the adjusted earned surplus
of ACIC. Adjusted earned surplus means the earned surplus as
determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices
(unassigned funds), less 25% of the amount of such earned
surplus that is attributable to unrealized capital gains.
Further, without approval of the Commissioner, ACIC may not pay
a dividend in any calendar year which, when combined with
dividends paid in the preceding twelve months, exceeds the
greater of: (i) 10% of ACIC s statutory capital and
surplus at the prior year end; or (ii) 100% of ACIC s
statutory net gain from operations (not including realized
capital gains) for the prior calendar year. For 2005, dividends
in excess of $4.1 million would require prior consent of
the Commissioner.

Statutory Surplus and Statutory Net Income   
Our insurance subsidiaries are required to file financial
statements with state regulatory agencies. The accounting
principles used to prepare the statutory financial statements
follow prescribed accounting practices that differ from GAAP.
Consolidated statutory capital and

56

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

surplus at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and consolidated
statutory net income for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 are as follows (000 s):

Note 10   
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

Operating Leases    We conduct our operations in
leased office facilities under operating lease agreements. The
agreements provide for monthly base lease payments plus
contingent rentals based on an allocable portion of certain
operating expenses incurred by the lessor.

Future minimum (base) rental payments required under the
leases, as of December 31, 2005, are as follows
(000 s):

Rent expense, including contingent rentals, was
$1.1 million for both 2005 and 2004 and $1.0 million
for 2003.

Litigation:  On April 12, 2005, RTW, Inc. commenced a
Declaratory Judgment action in the United States District Court
for the District of Minnesota against Carolina Casualty
Insurance Company. In the lawsuit, RTW is seeking a Court
determination that RTW is not liable for any part of a
$1.9 million judgment entered against an insured of
Carolina Casualty in District Court in Utah. Carolina Casualty
counterclaimed against RTW alleging that RTW owes it
$1.9 million, plus interest and attorneys fees.

On December 12, 2002, a Colorado employee of a Colorado
care company insured by RTW s subsidiary, American
Compensation Insurance Company, was injured in an automobile
accident in Utah. The injured employee brought a separate
underlying suit against Carolina Casualty s insured
trucking company and driver for damages suffered as a result of
the automobile accident.

While the underlying suit was pending, RTW administered and paid
the workers  compensation claim of the insured employee.
The total amount paid or accrued for future payment by RTW was
$163,586. RTW then sought indemnification from Carolina Casualty
under subrogation rights. In August 2004, Carolina
Casualty s insured trucking company admitted full liability
for the accident in the underlying suit.

In December 2004, Carolina Casualty agreed to pay and did pay
RTW the full amount of RTW s subrogation claim. On
January 14, 2005, after a jury trial on the injured
employee s damages, the U.S. District Court in Utah
entered a judgment of $1.9 million against Carolina
Casualty s insured, which was equal to the injured
employee s total damages, including $1,250,000 in general
damages, less the $163,586 representing workers compensation
benefits that had been paid, or accrued for future payments by
RTW. Carolina Casualty subsequently settled the lawsuit with the
injured worker for $1.8 million

In preparing the December 2004 settlement agreement for the
workers  compensation subrogation claim, counsel appointed
by Carolina Casualty for its insured inserted the provision that
Carolina Casualty in its

57

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

counterclaim alleged required full indemnification by RTW of any
amounts that Carolina Casualty pays the injured employee as a
result of the liability of Carolina Casualty s insured.

After Carolina Casualty s attorneys requested
indemnification pursuant to this provision, RTW commenced the
Declaratory Judgment suit described above. A similar Utah
declaratory action initiated by Carolina Casualty and its
insured has been dismissed and all matters will now proceed
solely in United States District Court for the District of
Minnesota.

RTW believes that it has good and meritorious defenses to the
indemnification claims of Carolina Casualty. Discovery has been
completed and RTW has filed a summary judgment motion for a
declaration that it has no liability to Carolina Casualty. In
opposing RTW s motion, Carolina Casualty apparently dropped
its claim for indemnification with respect to the $1,250,000
portion of the judgment relating to general damages and
requested that judgment be entered finding the claimed indemnity
provision otherwise binding and enforceable. A hearing on the
summary judgment motion has been scheduled before the Court for
April 19, 2006 and a decision is expected sometime within
90 days of that date.

In the ordinary course of administering our workers 
compensation programs, we are routinely involved in the
adjudication of claims resulting from workplace injuries. We are
not involved in any other legal or administrative claims that we
believe are likely to have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition or results of operations.

Note 11      
     
     ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME  

Our accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income includes only
unrealized gains and losses on investments classified as
available-for-sale. Changes in accumulated other comprehensive
(loss) income and other comprehensive loss were as follows
(000 s):

Note 12      
     
     QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)  

Quarterly revenues are affected by: (i) premiums in force
at the beginning of the quarter; (ii) new policies written
in the quarter; (iii) final audit premiums recognized
during the quarter; and (iv) our policy renewal rate in the
quarter. Historically, a majority of new policies written and
policy renewals have occurred in the first, second and fourth
quarters.

58

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

The following tables present unaudited quarterly income for the
eight quarters ended December 31, 2005:

We have reclassified certain first quarter amounts within our
Consolidated Statements of Income during the six months ended
June 30, 2005 to be consistent with the second quarter
presentation. Total expenses, net income and income per share
amounts were unchanged.

The following represent pre-tax adjustments recorded during 2005
that affected reported net income:

59

Table of Contents   

RTW, INC. 

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   (Continued) 

The following represent pre-tax adjustments recorded during 2004
that affected reported net income:

60

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9.  
     
      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
    ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   

None.

ITEM 9A.  
     
      CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   

a)     Evaluation of Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures   

The Company s Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey B. Murphy,
and Chief Financial Officer, Alfred L. LaTendresse, have
reviewed the Company s disclosure controls and procedures
pursuant to Exchange Act
Rule  13a-15(b)  as
of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon this
review, these officers have concluded that the Company s
disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that
information required to be disclosed in the reports that the
Company files under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
rules and forms of the SEC and that the disclosure controls are
also effective to ensure that information required to be
disclosed in the Company s Exchange Act reports is
accumulated and communicated to management, including the chief
executive officer and chief financial officer, to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.

b)     Changes in Internal
    Controls   

There has been no change in our internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in
Rules  13a-15(f) 
and  15d-15(f)  under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that occurred during our fiscal
quarter ended December 31, 2005, that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.  
     
      OTHER INFORMATION   

Employment Agreement with Jeffrey B. Murphy 

On March 28, 2006, the Company and Mr. Jeffrey B.
Murphy, President and Chief Executive Officer, entered into an
employment agreement that has an initial term beginning
March 28, 2006 through March 31, 2007. Under this
agreement, Mr. Murphy receives an annual base salary of
$350,000, subject to review annually for increase by the Board
of Directors. In addition to base salary, Mr. Murphy is
eligible for bonuses, expense reimbursements and health, dental,
life and disability insurance consistent with that provided to
other officers and employees. Additionally, the Company agreed
to provide Mr. Murphy with a $2.0 million term life
insurance policy for the benefit of his wife and family and
granted him a stock option on 10,000 shares, vesting one third
upon grant, an additional one third on the first anniversary of
the agreement and an additional one third upon the second
anniversary of the agreement. The agreement will be extended for
one year unless, at least 60 days prior to the anniversary
of the agreement, either Mr. Murphy or the Company delivers
to the other written notice of the intent not to extend the term
of employment. In the event the agreement is terminated or not
renewed by the Company without cause or by Mr. Murphy for
good reason, Mr. Murphy would be entitled, for a period of
nine months, to receive his salary and participate in the
Company s health plans and to receive up to $25,000 in
outplacement service payments.

On March 28, 2006, the Board of Directors approved the
following Executive Officer salaries effective April 1,
2006:

Name  
       
      Salary    
       
      Position  

Alfred L. LaTendresse

$ 
     220,000 

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary 

Thomas J. Byers

$ 
     180,000 

Executive Vice President   Sales and Marketing 

Keith D. Krueger

$ 
     187,000 

Vice President   Insured Products and Assistant
    Secretary 

David M. Dietz

$ 
     177,000 

Vice President   Business Development 

Patricia M. Sheveland

$ 
     177,000 

Vice President   Case and Claims Management 

61

Table of Contents   

Non-Employee Director Compensation 

On March 28, 2006 the Company and David C. Prosser,
Chairman Emeritus of the Company amended the compensation
arrangement between the Company and Mr. Prosser. Beginning
April 1, 2006, Mr. David Prosser will receive the same
compensation as the other non-employee members of the Board of
Directors, plus Company-paid insurance in the amount of $5,000
per year. In lieu of receiving an annual option grant to
non-employee Directors, Mr. Prosser will receive the cash
value of these options, payable in equal installments on the
same vesting schedule as the non-employee Director stock option
grants.

Also on March 28, 2006 the Company s Board of
Directors and its Compensation Committee also approved amending
the 1994 and 2005 Stock Plans of the Company to eliminate the
2,500 share annual option grants to Directors. The Company
intends to grant annual stock options or restricted stock grants
in a manner that the Board may determine annually.

RTW, Inc. Resumes Share Repurchase Program 

On March 30, 2006 the Company announced that it was
resuming its common stock share repurchase program. A copy of
the press release titled  RTW, Inc. Resumes Share
Repurchase Program  is attached as Exhibit 99.1.

PART III 

ITEM 10.  
     
      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

Information with respect to Directors is contained in the
Section entitled  Election of Directors  in our 2006
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Information with respect to Executive Officers is included in
PART I of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

ITEM 11.  
     
      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   

Information required under this item is contained in the Section
entitled  Executive Compensation and Other
Information  in our 2006 Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  
     
      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
    MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   

Information required under this item is contained in the Section
entitled  Security Ownership of Principal Shareholders and
Management  in our 2006 Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  
     
      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   

Information required under this item is contained in the Section
entitled  Certain Transactions  in our 2006 Proxy
Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.  
     
      PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   

Information required under this item is contained in the Section
entitled  Principal Accountant Fees and Services  in
our 2006 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

62

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

ITEM 15.  
     
      EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

(a) Documents filed as Part of this Report

(1)   Financial Statements  . The following
    Consolidated Financial Statements are set forth on pages 36
    through 60, Item 8 of this Report. 

Page    

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Schedules for the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
    2003 

S-1 

Schedule I   Summary of Investments

S-2 

Schedule II   Condensed Financial Information
    (Parent Company)

S-3 

Schedule III   Supplemental Information
    Concerning Insurance Operations

S-7 

Schedule IV   Reinsurance

S-8 

Schedule V   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

S-9 

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
    or the required information is presented in the Consolidated
    Financial Statements or the notes thereto. 

(c)  
     
    Listing of Exhibits (* indicates compensatory plan) 

63

Table of Contents   

10 
     .9.3 

Description of the Reinsurance Agreement for 2004 between ACIC
    and General Reinsurance Corporation effective January 1,
    2004(8) 

10 
     .9.4 

Description of the Reinsurance Agreement for 2005 between ACIC
    and General Reinsurance Corporation effective January 1,
    2005(9) 

10 
     .9.5 

Description of the Reinsurance Agreement for 2006 between ACIC
    and General Reinsurance Corporation effective January 1,
    2006 

10 
     .10 

Minnesota Workers  Compensation Reinsurance Association
    reinsurance agreement 

10 
     .11 

Election form for the 2006 Minnesota Workers  Compensation
    Reinsurance Association reinsurance agreement 

10 
     .12 

Description of the Reinsurance Agreement for 2003 between ACIC
    and Everest Re/ Platinum Re effective January 1, 2003(7) 

10 
     .13 

Description of the Reinsurance Agreement for 2004 between ACIC
    and various reinsurers effective January 1, 2004(8) 

10 
     .14 

Description of the Reinsurance Agreement for 2005 between ACIC
    and various reinsurers effective January 1, 2005(9) 

10 
     .15 

Description of the Reinsurance Agreement for 2006 between ACIC
    and various reinsurers effective January 1, 2006 

11 

Statement re: Computation of Income Per Share 

21 

Subsidiaries of the Registrant: The Company has two
    subsidiaries, American Compensation Insurance Company (ACIC), a
    Minnesota corporation, and Bloomington Compensation Insurance
    Company, a Minnesota corporation 

23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

24 

Power of Attorney, included in Signature page 

31 
     .1 

Certification of President and Chief Executive Officer 

31 
     .2 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

32 

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350,
    Adopted Pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
    2003 

99 
     .1 

Share Repurchase Program Resumption 

64

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

RTW, INC. 

By /s/ Jeffrey B. Murphy 

Jeffrey B. Murphy 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

Date: March 30, 2006

Signatures and Power of Attorney 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this Report has been signed by the following persons on
behalf of the Registrant, in the capacities, and on the dates,
indicated. Each person whose signature appears below constitutes
and appoints Jeffrey B. Murphy and Alfred L. LaTendresse as his
true and lawful
 attorney-in -fact and
agents, each acting alone, with full power of substitutions and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place, and stead, in
any and all capacities, to sign any or all amendments to this
Annual Report on
Form  10-K  and to
file the same, with the exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

Date  
       
      Signature and Title  

March 30, 2006

By /s/ John O. Goodwyne 
     John O. Goodwyne 
    Chairman of the Board 

March 30, 2006 

By /s/ Jeffrey B. Murphy 
     Jeffrey B. Murphy 
    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

March 30, 2006 

By /s/ Alfred L. LaTendresse 
     Alfred L. LaTendresse 
    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, 
    Treasurer and Secretary 
    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

March 30, 2006 

By /s/ David C. Prosser 
     David C. Prosser 
    Chairman Emeritus of the Board 

March 30, 2006 

By /s/ Gregory D. Koschinska 
     Gregory D. Koschinska 
    Director 

65

Table of Contents   

66

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON
SCHEDULES 

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

RTW, Inc.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of RTW,
Inc. as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 14, 2006. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in
Item 15(a)(2) of this Report on Form 10-K. These
schedules are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on
our audits.

In our opinion, the financial statement schedules referred to
above, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 14, 2006

S-1

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE I 

RTW, INC. 

SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS 

December 31, 2005 

S-2

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II 

RTW, INC. 

Condensed Financial Information of the Registrant 

Balance Sheets 

December 31, 2005 and 2004 

See notes to condensed financial statements.

S-3

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II 

RTW, INC. 

Condensed Financial Information of the Registrant 

Statements of Operations 

Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

See notes to condensed financial statements.

S-4

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II 

RTW, INC. 

Condensed Financial Information of the Registrant 

Statements of Cash Flows 

Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

See notes to condensed financial statements.

S-5

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II 

RTW, INC. 

Condensed Financial Information of the Registrant 

Notes to Condensed Financial Statements 

Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

NOTE 1   ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

The accompanying condensed financial information should be read
in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and
notes included in the RTW, Inc. (RTW) 2005 Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

We have reclassified certain amounts within our Condensed
Financial Information of the Registrant, Balance Sheets at
December 31, 2004 to be consistent with the 2005
presentation.

NOTE 2   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

RTW provides American Compensation Insurance Company
( ACIC ), and ACIC s subsidiary Bloomington
Compensation Insurance Company ( BCIC ), with
management services, including preparing and submitting filings,
maintaining books and records, collecting premiums,
administering and adjudicating claims, and performing other
administrative services. RTW receives 10% of ACIC s and
BCIC s gross premiums earned each month for these services,
which amounted to $6.0 million, $6.3 million and
$5.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively. In addition, RTW receives 15% of
ACIC s and BCIC s gross premiums earned for claims
administration during the year in which the premiums are earned
and a total of 4% of gross premiums earned in subsequent years
which amounted to $11.5 million, $12.0 million and
$11.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.

RTW files a consolidated federal tax return with ACIC and BCIC.
Taxes are allocated between the companies based on a tax
allocation agreement under which allocation is made primarily on
a separate return basis for taxes incurred with current credit
for any net operating losses or other items utilized in the
consolidated tax return. This allocation is settled annually
after completing and filing the federal tax return.

Amounts due from ACIC and BCIC related to the above transactions
are included in the balance sheet account caption
 Investment in and advances to subsidiary  and totaled
approximately $7.9 million and $3.9 million at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

S-6

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III 

RTW, INC. 

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION CONCERNING INSURANCE OPERATIONS 

December 31, 2005 

(1)  
     
    Certain claims with fixed or determinable future payments are
    discounted at rates ranging from 3.5% to 8.0%. 

S-7

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE IV 

RTW, INC. 

REINSURANCE 

Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

S-8

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE V 

RTW, INC. 

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

S-9

<EX-10.1>
 2
 c03761exv10w1.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - JEFFREY B. MURPHY

exv10w1 

Exhibit 10.1 

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (this  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of March 28,
2006, between  RTW, INC.,  a Minnesota corporation (the  Company ), and  Jeffrey B. Murphy 
( Employee ).

The Company and Employee are desirous of setting forth the terms and conditions of the
employment by the Company of Employee as its President and Chief Executive Officer.

In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the
parties intending to be legally bound do hereby agree as follows:

1.   Term  . The Company agrees to employ Employee and Employee agrees to serve the
Company for a term beginning on the date hereof and terminating on March 31, 2007 (the  Expiration
Date ) unless and until terminated in accordance with the terms of this Agreement (the  Original
Term ). Upon the expiration of the Original Term of this Agreement, and on each successive
anniversary thereafter, the term of employment under this Agreement will be extended for one
additional year, unless at least 60 days prior to any such anniversary, either Employee or the
Company delivers to the other written notice of the notifying party s desire not to extend the term
of employment. Notice by the Company of its desire not to extend the term of employment as
provided in this Section will constitute Termination without Cause and entitle Employee to the
benefits of Section 9 below.

2.   Services to be Rendered by Employee  . Employee agrees to serve the Company as its
President and Chief Executive Officer and, in addition, at no additional compensation, serve as a
member of the Board of Directors of RTW, Inc., and in such other directorships, Board committee
memberships and offices of the Company and its subsidiaries to which Employee may from time to time
be elected or appointed by the Chairman of the Board and the shareholders. Employee will perform
such duties and exercise such powers as from time to time may be assigned to him consistent with
his position, knowledge and experience, either orally or in writing, by the Board of Directors of
the Company and will carry out his duties under the ultimate general direction and control of the
Board of Directors. In his capacity as President and Chief Executive Officer, Employee will
perform all reasonable acts customarily associated with such position, or necessary or desirable to
protect and advance the best interests of the Company, together with such other reasonable duties
as may be determined and assigned to him by the Board of Directors. Employee will perform such
acts and carry out such duties, and will in all other respects serve the Company, faithfully and to
the best of his ability.

3.   Time to be Devoted by Employee  . Employee agrees to devote substantially all of his
business time, attention, efforts and abilities to the business of the Company and to use his best
efforts to promote the interests of the Company. Employee confirms that he has no business
interests of any kind that will require a significant portion of his business time. Employee may
attend, however, to personal business and investments, engage in charitable activities and
community affairs, and serve on a reasonable number of corporate, educational and civic boards so
long as those activities do not interfere with Employee s duties under this Agreement, and in the
case of service on any other corporate boards, Employee obtains prior approval from the Board of
Directors.

4.   Compensation Payable to Employee  . As compensation for all of Employee s services
(including services as director, Board committee member and officer of the Company and its
subsidiaries) during the term of employment hereunder, the Company will pay to Employee a base
salary at the rate of Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($350,000) per annum (the  Annual
Salary ), payable in semi-monthly installments, which base salary will be pro-rated for any partial
years. The Compensation Committee will review the base salary annually in discussion with Employee
and make recommendations for approval to the Board of Directors. Employee will participate with
other corporate officers in any incentive compensation plan as may be adopted by the Board of
Directors from time to time.

5.   Expenses  . During the term of employment, the Company will reimburse Employee for
reasonable travel and other expenses incurred in performing his duties according to Company
policies then in effect. Payments to Employee under this paragraph will be made after the Employee
presents expense vouchers in such detail as the Company may from time to time reasonably require.

6.   Benefits  . Employee s benefits will be the same as provided for any other executive
officer except that the Company will additionally provide Employee with a $2.0 million term life
insurance policy for the benefit of his wife and family. The policy will be of reasonable cost as
determined by the Board of Directors and the cost will be included in Employee s W-2 at year end
for tax purposes. Further, the Company will, at the Company s expense, maintain directors and
officers  liability insurance coverage during the term of this Agreement with minimum limits of
$5,000,000, unless the cost thereof is not economically feasible as determined by the Board of
Directors.

7.   Stock Option(s)  .

7.1.  Grant . In addition to options granted in conjunction with the Company s 2005
Incentive Program, the Company hereby further grants Employee ten-year stock options to purchase up
to 10,000 shares of the Company s Common Stock (the  Option(s) ). The per share price to be paid
by Employee upon exercise of the Option(s) is the closing price of the Company s Common Stock, as

2

reported by NASDAQ, on the date this agreement is executed. The Option(s) will be incentive
stock options to the extent allowed by the Internal Revenue Code. The Compensation Committee will
consider similar future grants as part of its duty in reviewing Employee s annual compensation.

7.2.  Vesting . The Option(s) will become exercisable in three (3) installments of the
Company s Common Stock ( Option Installment ) as follows: (i) the first Option Installment
representing 3,334 shares is immediately exercisable as of the date this agreement is executed, and
(ii) two additional Option Installments of 3,333 shares will vest on each of the following two
anniversary dates of this Agreement, if the Employee is still employed by the Company on such
dates.

7.3.  Exercise Period . The Option(s) will become void and expire as to all unexercised
Option shares ten years from the effective date of this Agreement.

7.4.  Additional Terms.  The remaining terms of the Option(s) are as set forth in the
Option Agreement(s) dated this date.

8.   Termination   . 

8.1.  General.  This Agreement and Employee s employment may be terminated as set forth
in Section 8.2. In the event of termination of employment for any of the following reasons,
Employee must resign as a director and officer of the Company and any of its subsidiaries at or
prior to the effective Date of Termination.

8.2.  Events of Termination.  The Agreement may be terminated as follows:

(i) 
       
     By Employee, upon 60 days prior written notice
to the Company; 

(ii) 
       
     By Employee for Good Reason (as defined in
Section 8.4 (iii) of this Agreement) upon 60 days prior written notice
to the Company; 

(iii) 
       
     By the Company for Cause (as defined in this
Agreement), immediately upon written notice to Employee; 

(iv) 
       
     By the Company for any reason (without cause)
and at any time, upon 60 days prior written notice to Employee; or 

(v) 
       
     By the Company at any time in the event of
Employee s Disability (as defined in this Agreement.) 

8.3.  Death . This Agreement will automatically terminate upon Employee s death.

8.4.  Definitions . For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms have the
meanings set forth below:

3

(i) 
       
      Disability .  Disability  means that
if, in the reasonable judgment of the Board of Directors, the
Employee s incapacity due to physical or mental illness, or otherwise,
keeps him from performing satisfactorily all of his duties hereunder on
a substantially full-time basis for a period of three months during the
term of this Agreement. 

(ii) 
       
      Cause.  The Company will have  Cause 
to terminate Employee s employment hereunder upon Employee s: 

(A) 
       
     refusal or neglect to perform and
discharge his duties and responsibilities hereunder; 

(B) 
       
     gross misconduct that is
injurious to the Company; 

(C) 
       
     fraud, embezzlement or other act
of dishonesty of Employee with respect to the Company; 

(D) 
       
     conviction of, or plea of guilty
or nolo contendere entered by Employee to, a felony or crime
involving moral turpitude or which conviction or plea is likely
to have a material adverse effect upon the Company or upon
Executive s ability to perform his duties hereunder; 

(E) 
       
     willful or prolonged absence from
work by Employee (other than by reason of disability due to
physical or mental illness); or 

(F) 
       
     willful commission of acts or
making of false statements by Employee that reflect adversely,
in material respects, upon the Company or its business,
customers or other employees. 

(iii) 
       
      Good Reason.   Good Reason  means the
Company, without express written consent, 

(A) 
       
     materially reduces Employee s
principal duties, responsibilities, or authority as President
and Chief Executive Officer, including   requiring
Employee to report to any person or body other than the Board of
Directors of the Company; 

(B) 
       
     reduces Employee s annual base
compensation as described in Section  or 

(C) 
       
     materially breaches this
Agreement. 

4

The occurrence of an event described in this subparagraph 8.4(iii)
will not constitute Good Reason unless, within 60 days thereof
Employee provides the Company written notice stating that an event of
Good Reason has occurred and describing that event, and the Company
does not correct the same, if the same is correctable, within 30
days. 

(iv) 
       
      Date of Termination.  The term  Date of
Termination  means the earlier of: 

(A) 
       
     the Expiration Date, or 

(B) 
       
     if Employee s employment is
terminated by his death, the date of his death, or 

(C) 
       
     if Employee s employment is
terminated for any other reason, the date on which notice of
termination is given either to Employee by the Company or to the
Company by Employee unless another date is specified in the
Notice of Termination. 

9.   Consequences of Termination   . 

9.1.  Termination for Cause; Voluntary Resignation without Good Reason . If employment
is terminated by the Company for Cause or by Employee without Good Reason, then Employee will be
paid (i) his base salary to the date of termination and (ii) the unpaid portion of any bonus or
incentive amount earned for the fiscal year ending prior to the termination of employment that
Employee is entitled to receive under the terms of the annual incentive plan. Employee will not be
entitled to receive any base salary or fringe benefits for any period after the date of
termination, except for the right to receive benefits that have become vested under any benefit
plan or to which Employee is entitled as a matter of law.

9.2.  Termination without Cause; Resignation for Good Reason . If the Company
terminates employment without Cause or does not extend the term of employment, or if Employee
resigns employment for Good Reason, then:

(i) 
       
     For a period of nine months after the effective
date of the termination of employment; 

(A) 
       
     The Company will continue to pay
Employee s then current base salary in accordance with the
Company s normal payroll practice; and 

5

(B) 
       
     Employee will be entitled to
continued participation in the health care coverage and life
insurance benefit plans of the Company, as in effect on the date
of termination. The Company will continue to pay its share of
the health care and life insurance premiums for this coverage,
and Employee will pay his share of the cost associated with that
coverage as if he were still actively employed by the Company.
If Employee cannot be covered under any of the Company s group
plans or policies, the Company will reimburse Employee for his
full cost of obtaining comparable alternative or individual
coverage elsewhere, less any contribution that Employee would
have been required to make under the Company s group plans or
policies. If, during the aforesaid nine-month period, Employee
is employed by a third party and becomes eligible for any health
care coverage provided by that third party, the Company will
not, thereafter, be obligated to provide Employee with the
insurance benefits described in this clause (B). This nine
- -month coverage will run concurrently with COBRA and thereafter
Employee will be responsible for the full cost of any such
coverage for which he may be entitled by law. 

(ii) 
       
     The Company will pay the unpaid portion of any
bonus or incentive amount earned by Employee for the fiscal year ending
prior to the termination of employment that Employee is entitled to
receive under the terms of the applicable incentive plan as well as any
pro-rata bonus or incentive amount through the date of termination.
Any pro rata bonus or other incentive amount due pursuant to this
paragraph 9.2 (ii) will be due on the date the payments are made to
other employees of the Company. 

(iii) 
       
     The Company will pay Employee $25,000 for
out-placement and job search services. 

9.3.  Termination in the Event of Death or Disability . If employment terminates due to
Employee s Death or if the Company terminates employment due to a Disability, then:

(i) 
       
     The Company will continue to pay base salary to
Employee s estate or to Employee for the remainder of the month in
which the death occurs or in 

6

which employment is terminated due to Disability, together with the
unpaid portion of any bonus or incentive amount earned by Employee
for the fiscal year ending prior to the termination of employment
which he is entitled to receive under the terms of the applicable
incentive plan as well as any pro-rata bonus or incentive amount
through the date of termination; and in the event of termination due
to Disability, Employee will continue to receive, during that month,
all of the fringe benefits then being paid or provided to him; and 

(ii) 
       
     Employee will be entitled to receive all
Disability and other benefits, such as continued health coverage or
life insurance proceeds, provided in accordance with the terms and
condition of the health care coverage, life insurance, disability, or
other employee benefit plans of the Company and applicable law. 

10.   Confidentiality  . Employee agrees while in the employ of the Company (otherwise
than in the performance of his duties hereunder) and thereafter not to, directly or indirectly,
make use of, or divulge to any person, firm, corporation, entity or business organization, and to
use his best efforts to prevent the publication or disclosure of, any confidential or proprietary
information concerning the business, accounts or finances of, or any of the methods of doing
business used by, the Company or its affiliates or of the dealings, transactions or affairs of the
Company or its affiliates or any of their respective customers that have or may have come to his
knowledge during his employment by the Company.

11.   Notices  . All notices under this Agreement must be in writing and will be
effective either (i) when delivered in person at the address set forth below, or
(ii) three business days after deposit in a sealed envelope in the United States Mail,
postage prepaid, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the
recipient as set forth below, whichever is earlier.

All notices to the Company must be sent to: 

RTW, Inc. 

8500 Normandale Lake Boulevard 

Minneapolis, MN 55437 

Attn: Chairman of the Board 

7

All notices to Employee must be sent to: 

Mr. Jeffrey B. Murphy 

327 Jesse James Lane 

Mahtomedi, MN 55115 

These addresses may be changed by notice given in accordance with this Section 11.

12.   Miscellaneous  . This Agreement may not be changed nor may any provision hereof be
waived, except by an instrument in writing duly signed by the party to be charged. This Agreement
will be interpreted, governed and controlled by the internal laws of the State of Minnesota,
without reference to principles of conflict of law. This Agreement will terminate in the event of
the liquidation and winding up of the business of the Company but will continue in effect in the
event of the merger or sale of the Company into or to another entity or the transfer of
substantially all of the assets of the Company to another entity. The provisions of Section 10
hereof will survive any termination of this Agreement. This agreement replaces in its entirety
Employee s employment agreement dated as of March 12, 2004.

Remainder of page intentionally left blank.   

8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed as of the day and year first above
written.

COMPANY:  

EMPLOYEE:  

RTW, Inc.  

By:

/s/ John O. Goodwyne

/s/ Jeffrey B. Murphy 

John O. Goodwyne

Jeffrey B. Murphy 

Chairman of the Board

President and CEO 

9

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.7>
 3
 c03761exv10w7.htm
 DESCRIPTION OF THE 2006 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PROGRAM

exv10w7 

Exhibit 10.7 

2006 Performance Incentive Programs 

Employees of the Company are eligible to receive cash incentives based on the 2006 year-end results
of RTW, Inc. and its Subsidiaries. All employees of the Company are eligible to participate in
this program. Under the program, a portion of plan pre-tax earnings and pre-tax earnings in excess
of planned results, excluding investment income, are contributed to a general pool and distributed
in 2007. Incentive amounts will be distributed as a percentage (%) of salary and on a
discretionary basis to employees. Any incentive program payment will be made annually after
completing the year-end audit.

Executive officers, additionally, earn stock options based upon exceeding the Company s pre-tax,
pre-cash incentive, pre-investment income earnings plan for 2006 and are eligible for an additional
discretionary bonus. Executive officers are eligible for a fixed number of options, pro-rated on a
sliding scale, in excess of the profit plan, up to a maximum level. Any stock option grant will be
made annually after completing the 2006 year-end audit.

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.9.5>
 4
 c03761exv10w9w5.htm
 DESCRIPTION OF THE REINSURANCE AGREEMENT

exv10w9w5 

Exhibit 10.9.5 

Description of the Reinsurance Agreement for 2006 between ACIC and General 
Reinsurance Corporation effective January 1, 2006 

The Company, on behalf of its subsidiaries American Compensation Insurance Company (ACIC) and
Bloomington Compensation Insurance Company (BCIC), entered into a reinsurance contract for the
fiscal year beginning January 1, 2006. The following summarizes the significant terms of this
reinsurance contract.

LIABILITY OF THE REINSURER  

The Reinsurer shall pay to ACIC and BCIC, with respect to Workers  Compensation and Employers 
Liability Business, the amount of Net Loss for each Occurrence, as defined in the contract, in
excess of ACIC s and BCIC s retention, but not exceeding the Limits of Liability of the Reinsurer
as follows:

COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION  

The contract shall apply to new and renewal policies of ACIC and BCIC becoming effective at and
after 12:01 A.M., January 1, 2006, and to policies in force at 12:01 A.M., January 1, 2006, with
respect to losses resulting from Occurrences taking place at or after the aforesaid time and date.

The contract is for one year and automatically expires at 12:01 A.M. on January 1, 2007. The
Reinsurer may also terminate the contract in the event of significant adverse events at ACIC or
BCIC or in the event of a change in control of ACIC, BCIC or RTW, Inc.

REINSURANCE PREMIUM  

ACIC and BCIC agreed to pay the Reinsurer based on subject premiums earned for each Loss Layer as
shown above. These rates are similar to the rates that we paid in 2005.

</EX-10.9.5>

<EX-10.10>
 5
 c03761exv10w10.htm
 MINNESOTA WORKERS' COMPENSATION REINSURANCE ASSOCIATION

exv10w10 

Exhibit 10.10 

WORKERS 
COMPENSATION REINSURANCE  ASSOCIATION 

REINSURANCE AGREEMENT 

Effective January 1, 2006 

Workers  Compensation Reinsurance Association Reinsurance Agreement

NATURE AND SCOPE OF AGREEMENT  

A. 

The Purpose

1 

B. 

Parties

1 

C. 

Definitions

1 

D. 

Agreement Incorporates by Reference the Plan and the Operating Rules

1 

PART ONE:  Reinsurance Agreements 

1 

A. 

Liability of Association

1 

B. 

Member s Duties

1 

PART TWO:  Retention Limits 

2 

PART THREE:  Reinsurance Provided by Association Exclusive 

2 

PART FOUR:  Coverage 

2 

A. 

General Scope

2 

B. 

Per Occurrence Basis

2 

C. 

Claims Expenses

3 

D. 

Assessments

3 

E. 

Effective Date

3 

PART FIVE:  Premiums 

3 

A. 

Annual Premium

3 

B. 

Billing of Premium

3 

C. 

Offset

3 

D. 

Annual Adjustment of Premium

4 

E. 

Interim Adjustment of Premium

4 

F. 

Surplus Distributions and Deficiency Assessments

4 

G. 

Premiums for Unfunded Coverage

4 

H. 

Premium Audits

4 

PART SIX:  Reimbursement Procedure for Indemnification of Ultimate Losses in Excess of a Member s Retention Limit 

5 

PART SEVEN:  Management of Claims and Losses 

5 

A. 

Claims

5 

B. 

Claims Audits

6 

C. 

Reporting Requirements

6 

D. 

Legal Proceedings

7 

PART EIGHT:  Subrogation, Salvage, and Third Party Recoveries 

7 

PART NINE:  Recoveries Under The Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 

7 

PART TEN:  Resolution of Disputes 

8 

PART ELEVEN:  Insolvency 

8 

PART TWELVE:  Termination 

9 

Effective  January 1, 2006

NATURE AND SCOPE OF AGREEMENT

A.  
       
      The Purpose  

The purpose of this Reinsurance Agreement (the  Agreement ) is to set forth the basic
conditions of the reinsuring agreement between the Workers  Compensation Reinsurance
Association ( Association ) and the Member. This Agreement is authorized by the Association s
Enabling Act (Minnesota Statutes    79:34 79.40), (the  Enabling Act  its Plan of Operation
(the  Plan  and its Operating Rules. 

Ref:

Plan, Article VI.K.

B.  
       
      Parties  

This Agreement is solely between the Member and the Association. All affiliated insurers
or self-insurers within a holding company system shall be considered a single entity for
purposes of the exercise of all rights and duties of membership in the Association. Nothing in
this Agreement shall establish any rights in favor of any third party. Nothing in this
Agreement shall create any liability or responsibility on the part of the Association for
actions of the Member or other members. Nothing in this Agreement shall limit the Member s
liability to employers, employees and others under Minn. Stat. Chs. 79 and 176 and other
Minnesota law. 

C.  
       
      Definitions  

To the extent defined in the Plan or in Operating Rules, the words used in this Agreement
shall have the meanings given them by the Plan and the Operating Rules. 

Ref:

Plan, Article I.

D.  
       
      Agreement Incorporates by Reference the Plan and the Operating Rules  

This Agreement incorporates by reference the Plan and the Operating Rules as they may from
time to time be amended. The provisions of the Enabling Act, Plan, and Operating Rules shall be
controlling over any conflicting provisions of this Agreement. 

Ref:

Plan, Article IX.E.

PART ONE:   
 Reinsurance Agreements 

A.  
       
      Liability of Association  

The Association shall reinsure the Member s Minnesota workers  compensation liability and
shall indemnify the Member for 100 percent of the amount of ultimate loss arising out of each
occurrence compensable under Minn. Stat. Ch. 176 to the extent that the ultimate loss exceeds
the Member s retention limit in effect at the time of the loss occurrence and subject to the
terms and conditions of the Enabling Act, the Plan, and the Operating Rules. 

B.  
       
      Member s Duties  

The Member shall comply with all requirements of the Enabling Act, Plan, and Operating
Rules. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the following: The Member shall
reinsure its Minnesota workers  compensation liability with the Association, pay all benefits
for losses reinsured by the Association that are covered by the terms and conditions of the
original policies issued to the Member s insureds, belong to the Association, accept
indemnification from the Association, and report to the Association claims for 

Effective  January 1, 2006

-1-

benefits which may involve liability to the Association.

PART TWO:   
 Retention Limits 

The Member shall select the low, high or super retention limit for each calendar year. The
retention limits may be changed annually on January 1. The Member shall notify the Association by
certified mail or fax of any change of its retention limit selection by December 1 of the year
preceding the coverage year. All affiliated insurers or self-insurers within a holding company
system shall select the same retention limit. If the Association is not notified of the Member s
change of retention limit for the next coverage year by December 1, the Member shall be deemed to
have chosen for the next coverage year the same retention limit (low, high, or super retention
limit) which was in effect on December 1.

PART THREE:   
 Reinsurance Provided by Association Exclusive 

A Member selecting the high or super retention limit shall not purchase reinsurance for
losses below its retention limit except in certain circumstances specified by statute. A Member
selecting the low retention limit may purchase reinsurance from other organizations to provide
indemnification for losses below its retention limit. A Member shall not issue large deductible
policies in Minnesota for deductible amounts in excess of its selected retention limit.

PART FOUR:   
 Coverage 

A.  
       
      General Scope  

The reinsurance provided by the Association shall cover only benefits under Minn. Stat. Ch.
176 which are paid by the Member, provided that for losses incurred on or after January 1, 1984,
the reinsurance provided shall cover benefits paid by the Member under the workers  compensation
law of another state when the injured worker is eligible for benefits under Minn. Stat.   176.041,
subds. 2 or 3, but elects to receive benefits under the workers  compensation statute of such other
state, as provided in Minn. Stat.   79.34 subd. 7. Any amounts paid by a Member pursuant to Minn.
Stat.    176.183; 176.221, subd. 1; 176.225; and 176,82 shall not be included in ultimate loss and
shall not be indemnified by the Association. Employers  liability coverage is not provided by the
Association. The Association does not cover claims under the Federal Employers  Liability Act, the
Jones Act, the Longshoremen s and Harbor Workers  Compensation Act, or any other federal law. 

B.  
       
      Per Occurrence Basis  

Coverage shall be provided on a per occurrence basis, as determined by the Association,
except as otherwise provided by statute, including, in the case of occupational disease, where
coverage is provided on a per person per occurrence basis. 

Effective January 1, 2006

-2-

C.  
       
      Claims Expenses  

Claims expenses, assessments, damages and penalties shall not be indemnified by the
Association. Claims expenses include investigation and legal expenses, court costs, interest
and penalties. Expenses subject to indemnification include expenditures incurred in the
preparation and development of a rehabilitation plan submitted to the Department of Labor and
Industry and in the provision of rehabilitation services rendered in accordance with such a
rehabilitation plan. 

Ref:

Minn. Stat.   79.34, subd. 2.

Plan, Article I.G.

Operating Rule for Clarification of the Definition of Claims Expenses

D.  
       
      Assessments  

Assessments, including Special Compensation Fund assessments
under Minn. Stat.    176.129 and
176.131 shall not be reimbursed by the Association. 

E.  
       
      Effective Date  

Coverage shall be effective as of 12:01 A.M. on the date that the Member s authority to either
insure or self-insure workers  compensation liabilities is approved by the Minnesota Department
of Commerce. In no case shall the Association be liable for benefits for occurrences taking
place prior to October 1, 1979. The Association shall have no liability for death benefits
where an injury prior to October 1, 1979, causes or contributes to death on or after October 1,
1979. Effective January 1, 1984, certain benefits paid pursuant to the workers  compensation
laws of other states will be covered, as provided in Part Four A. of this Agreement. 

PART FIVE   :  
 Premiums 

A.  
       
      Annual Premium  

The Member shall pay an annual premium, together with any premium surcharges, for the
reinsurance coverage provided by the Association at the rate determined by the Board of
Directors of the Association ( Board of Directors ) and approved by the Minnesota Commissioner
of Labor and Industry ( Commissioner ). Estimated premium shall be calculated in accordance
with procedures established in the Operating Rule for Determination of Exposure Base. The
estimated exposure base for a Member may be revised after six months of the coverage year if
the member verifies that its current annualized six month exposure base is at least fifteen
percent higher or lower than its estimated exposure base. When the actual exposure base figures
for the billing year become available, the actual premium shall be calculated. A premium
adjustment shall be made as provided in Part Five D. of this Agreement. 

Ref:

Minn. Stat.   79.35(d).

Plan, Article VI.D.

Operating Rule for Determination of Exposure Base

B.  
       
      Billing of Premium  

The estimated premium shall be billed on an annual or quarterly basis, and shall be payable
within 30 days of the date of mailing of the premium notice, with late payments subject to
interest charges established by the Board of Directors. 

Ref:

Plan, Article VI.D.3.

C.  
       
      Offset  

The Association may offset indemnification payable to the Member against premium payable by the
Member. Premiums payable shall not be offset by 

Effective  January 1, 2006

-3-

the Member against indemnification claimed by the Member. 

Ref: 
       
     Plan, Article VI.D.3.C. 

D.  
       
      Annual Adjustment of Premium  

The Association shall annually provide to the Member a statement indicating adjustments for
previous years  premium. Amounts due the Association as a result of the adjustment shall be paid by
the Member within 30 days of the date of mailing of the adjusted premium notice, with late payments
subject to interest charges established by the Board of Directors. Amounts due the Member shall be
credited to the Member s premium account with the Association, and any credit premium balance shall
be refunded to the Member within 30 days, provided, however, that the Member has no additional
premiums due and unpaid in the year the refund is to be made. If the Member has additional premiums
due and unpaid in the year the refund is to be made, the Association may apply any credit premium
balance against the due and unpaid premium. 

Ref: 
       
     Plan, Article VI.D.2.b. 
Operating Rule for Determination of Exposure Base  
Operating Rule for Annual and Audit 
  Premium Adjustment Refunds 

E.  
       
      Interim Adjustment of Premium  

A Member who ceases doing business in Minnesota or a self-insurer Member who ceases to be an
approved self-insurer may request an interim adjustment of estimated annual premium. 

Ref: 
       
     Operating Rule for Interim Adjustment     of Estimated Annual Premium 

F.  
       
      Surplus Distributions and Deficiency Assessments  

The Board of Directors may declare a distribution of surplus or assessment of deficiencies in the
form of member excess or deficient premiums or policyholder excess
surplus or deficiencies as required by the Operating Rule for the Determination of Surplus. Such
distributions or assessments may result from statutory changes, changes in the exposure base, or
excess or deficient funds. Distributions of surplus and deficiency assessments shall be made as
required by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Enabling Act, Plan and Operating Rule for
the Determination of Surplus as they have been interpreted by the courts. 

Ref: 
       
     Minn. Stat.   79.34, et seq. 
Plan, Article VI.D.l.d. and VI.N.  Operating Rule for the  Determination of Surplus 

G.  
       
      Premiums for Unfunded Coverage  

In the event that benefits paid or expected to be paid on any claims in a calendar year exceed the
prefunded limit in effect at the time the loss was incurred, the Association shall calculate and
charge to all Members an additional premium for that year sufficient to cover the payments in
excess of the prefunded limit. The premium shall be charged and collected in the same manner as the
annual premium. 

H.  
       
      Premium Audits  

The Association may inspect and audit any Member s records to determine the accuracy of the premium
calculation. The Member shall timely provide all information requested and shall in all respects
cooperate fully in providing information during the course of an audit. 

Ref: 
       
     Plan, Article VI.D.2.f.  

Effective January 1, 2006

-4-

PART SIX:   
 Reimbursement Procedure for Indemnification of Ultimate Losses in Excess of a Member s Retention
Limit 

Requests for reimbursement shall be submitted in a form approved by the Association. The
first request shall be submitted within six months after the Member s payments on a loss exceed the
Member s Retention Limit. Thereafter the Member, if entitled to indemnification by the Association,
shall file a reimbursement request form semiannually until the claim is closed. The request shall
be submitted to the Association in accordance with the provisions of the Operating Rule for
Reimbursement Procedures. The Member and the Association may, in the alternative, agree upon a
semiannual reimbursement cycle, whereby all of the Member s reimbursement requests, regardless of
loss occurrence date, are filed on the same cycle. If a claim settles on a full, final and complete
basis, or the claim file is closed, a reimbursement request may be filed at any time. If payments
for which reimbursement is due exceed $30,000 in the three months following a regularly scheduled
reimbursement date, a reimbursement request may be filed in the following month. The reimbursement
request shall itemize all payments of benefits since submission of the last reimbursement request.

Proper and complete reimbursement requests for indemnification of Ultimate Losses in excess of a
Member s Retention Limit shall be promptly paid by the Association.

Ref:

Plan, Article VI.

Operating Rule for Reimbursement Procedures

PART SEVEN :  
 Management of Claims and Losses 

A.  
       
      Claims  

The Member shall have the primary responsibility for the investigation, management, and
defense of all claims. The Member may settle and compromise disputed claims
that are within the terms and conditions of the original policies issued by the Member and are
consistent with the claims procedures established by the Association. If the Association, in its
sole discretion, determines that the claims procedures or practices of a Member are inadequate to
properly limit the liabilities of the Association, or may, in any way, jeopardize the interests of
the Association, the Association may withhold reimbursements from the Member until it determines
that the deficiencies in the claims procedures and practices have been resolved, or the Association
may, with the approval of the Board of Directors and at the Member s expense, undertake directly or
contract with another person, including another Member, to adjust or assist in the adjustment of a
Claim or Claims which create a potential liability to the Association. Except as provided by Minn.
Stat.   79.35(g), the Association may charge the costs and expenses of these activities, including
legal expenses, to the Member. The Member shall cooperate fully with the Association in such claims
management. If the Board of Directors determines that the claims procedures or practices of a
Member are inadequate to properly service the liabilities of the Association, or may, in any way,
jeopardize the interests of the Association, the Association may also recommend to the Commissioner
and the Commissioner of Commerce that an Insurer Member s license to transact workers  compensation
insurance, or a Self-insurer Member s authorization to self-insure workers  compensation liability,
pursuant to Minn. Stat.   176.181, be revoked. 

Ref:

Minn. Stat.   79.35(g).

Plan, Article VI.F.4.

Operating Rule for the Adjustment of Claims

Effective  January 1, 2006

-5-

B.  
       
      Claims Audits  

The Association may inspect and audit the Member s records relating to all claims or related
matters. The Member shall timely provide all information requested
and shall in all respects
cooperate fully in providing information during the course of an audit. 

C.  
       
      Reporting Requirements  

Members shall promptly notify the Association of any claim meeting any of the following reporting
criteria. 

1. 
       
     Catastrophic Injury Criteria 

When a claimant has suffered a catastrophic injury as described
in the following list, the Member shall notify the Association of the injury within 15 business
days of notification of the injury to the Member. 

a) 
       
     Central Nervous System Injury 

1) 
       
     Spinal cord injury resulting in paraplegia or quadriplegia. 

2) 
       
     Brain damage affecting cognition and/or such conditions as permanent disorientation,
behavior disorder, personality change, seizure disorder, sensorimotor deficits, aphasia, or coma. 

b) 
       
     Fatality, except for a no dependent exposure. 

c) 
       
     Third-degree burns covering 10 percent of the body, or second-degree burns covering 30
percent of the body, or if significant medical costs can be anticipated. 

d) 
       
     Amputations of a significant portion of one extremity or multiple amputations. 

2. 
       
     Serious Injury Criteria 

When a claimant has suffered a serious injury as described in the following list, the Member
shall promptly notify the Association. 

a) 
       
     Impairment of total vision by 50 percent or more. 

b) 
       
     Peripheral nerve damage causing major muscle dysfunction or paralysis in an upper or lower
extremity. 

c) 
       
     Serious internal injuries resulting from blunt, penetrating, or crushing injuries to the
chest or abdomen. 

d) 
       
     Multiple fractures, or significant degloving injuries, involving more than one arm, hand,
or leg, malunion, or significant shortening of the limbs. 

e) 
       
     Fracture of both heel bones (bilateral os calcis). 

f) 
       
     Occupational disease allegedly caused by working conditions or other job-related factors,
including asbestosis, or chronic pulmonary disease, or other occupational disease which results in
disability expected to last two years or more. 

3. 
       
     Claim Cost Criteria 

When a Member estimates that the total incurred cost (payments and reserves for future payments) of
a claim exceeds 50 percent of the retention limit which was in effect during the year when the loss
was incurred, the Member shall promptly notify the Association. 

Ref: 
       
     Plan, Article VI.B.1. 
Operating Rule for Claim Reporting Procedure 

Effective January 1, 2006

-6-

D.  
       
      Legal Proceedings  

The Association may intervene in legal proceedings under Minnesota Statutes Chapters 79 and
176 and in any other legal proceedings where the result of the proceeding is considered likely
to affect the interests of the Association. The Association shall notify the affected Member
prior to intervening. 

Ref:

Minn. Stat.   79.36(f).

Plan, Article VI.H.

Operating Rule for Intervention in Legal Proceedings

PART EIGHT:   
 Subrogation, Salvage, and Third Party Recoveries 

The Member shall, to the extent permitted by law, prosecute or intervene in any and all claims
against third parties arising out of any covered loss occurrence and all recoveries therefrom shall
be applied to reduce the loss which the Association is required to reimburse to the Member;
provided, however, that a Member may waive its subrogation rights in writing in advance of any loss
occurrence.

If the Member fails or neglects to enforce any such claims, the Association may reduce the Member s
reimbursement for such claim by the amount the Member would have recovered from such third parties.
In the alternative, the Association may, in its sole discretion, enforce the Member s rights of
subrogation against such third parties. The net proceeds recovered, if any, shall be distributed
first to the Association to the extent of amounts paid or payable in the future by the Association
for the claim. Any excess recovered by the Association shall be paid to the Member or other person
entitled to the proceeds, as determined by the Board of Directors,

If the Member waives its subrogation rights after a claim has occurred without first obtaining the
agreement of the Association, and the Association determines that it was not in its best interests
to waive subrogation, the Association may refuse to indemnify the Member for that claim to the extent
of amounts which the Association determines would have been recoverable through subrogation. The
Association may withhold reimbursements to the Member for other claims to recover reimbursements
already made on the claim where subrogation was waived.

Ref:

Minn. Stat.   79.36(g)

Plan,
Article VI.E.3. and VI.G.  
Operating Rule for the Adjustment of Claims

Operating Rule for Approval of Waivers of Subrogation

PART NINE:   
 Recoveries Under The Terrorism Risk
Insurance Extension Act of 2005 

The Association has been determined by the Department of the Treasury to be a separate insurer
under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 as amended and
extended by the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (TRIEA). As such, the Association is eligible to directly submit
claims in accordance with the provisions of the TRIEA for liabilities it incurs from its members as
the result of  acts of terrorism  certified by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in the
TRIEA.

Any loss reimbursement that a Member receives from the United States Government under TRIEA as a
result of a loss occurrence during the term of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the
Association in the proportion that the Member s insured losses, as defined in the TRIEA, in that
loss occurrence for coverage provided under this Agreement bear to the Member s total insured
losses, as defined in the TRIEA, in that loss occurrence.

If a loss reimbursement received by the Member under the TRIEA is based on the Member s losses
in more than one loss

Effective  January 1, 2006

-7-

occurrence, and the United States Government does not designate the amount allocable to each loss
occurrence, the reimbursement shall be prorated between occurrences in the proportion that the
Member s insured losses for coverage provided under this
Agreement in each loss occurrence bears to
the Member s total insured losses arising out of all loss occurrences to which the recovery
applies.

PART TEN:   
 Resolution of Disputes 

Any Member or other interested party aggrieved by any action or decision of the Board of
Directors or the Association, or any agent of the Association, may file a written complaint with
the Association concerning such action or decision within 30 days after the action was taken or the
decision rendered. The complaint will be resolved by the Member Appeals Committee in accordance
with the procedures it follows for the resolution of such disputes. Any Member aggrieved by a
determination by the Member Appeals Committee may appeal such determination to the Commissioner
within 30 days.

Any dispute between a Member (or Former Member or successor in interest of a Member) and the
Association with respect to Article VI. of the Plan or any provisions in the Reinsurance
Agreement or Operating Rules adopted by the Board of Directors relating to coverage, claim, or
premium issues, as determined by the Association, shall be resolved by arbitration in accordance
with the Commercial Arbitration Operating Rules of the American Arbitration Association, and
judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having
jurisdiction over the parties and the dispute. A single neutral arbitrator shall be agreed upon by
the Member and the Association. If the parties are unable to agree upon a single neutral
arbitrator, three arbitrators shall be chosen, one by each party and the third by the two
arbitrators so chosen. If either or both parties refuse or neglect to appoint an arbitrator or
arbitrators within 30 days after receipt of written notice from the other party requesting the
party to do so, the Commissioner may choose the arbitrator
or arbitrators which the party or parties refuse or neglect to choose, and the two arbitrators so
chosen shall choose the third. If the two arbitrators fail to select the third arbitrator within 30
days after the second of the first two arbitrators is chosen, the Commissioner shall choose the
third arbitrator. Each party shall submit its case to the arbitrator or arbitrators within 30 days
of the appointment of the arbitrator. The decision of the arbitrator or a majority of the
arbitrators shall be a final determination, binding upon both the Member and the Association. The
expense of the arbitrator or arbitrators and the arbitration shall be divided as follows: the
prevailing party shall pay 25 percent and the remainder shall be paid by the other party. In the
event that no one party clearly prevails, the arbitrator or arbitrators shall specify the
percentage of expenses to be contributed by the parties. Any such arbitration shall take place in
Minneapolis or Saint Paul, Minnesota, unless some other location is mutually agreed upon by the
Member and the Association.

PART ELEVEN:   
 Insolvency 

If the Member becomes insolvent, indemnification for losses payable by the Association shall be
payable by the Association directly to the Member or its liquidator, receiver, or statutory
successor or, if applicable, in accordance with Minn. Stat.   176.185, subd. 8a..

If the Member or any other member becomes insolvent, any liability of the insolvent member to the
Association shall be apportioned among the remaining members on the same basis as reinsurance
premiums are charged. The Association shall have, on behalf of all of the remaining members, all
rights allowed by law against the estate or funds of the insolvent member for sums due the
Association, and any

Effective January 1, 2006

-8-

amounts received by the Association as a result thereof shall be credited to the members on
the same basis as reinsurance premiums are charged.

PART TWELVE:   
 Termination 

The Commissioner or Commissioner of Commerce may, upon notice to a Member, take any appropriate
action against a Member pursuant to procedures available to the Commissioner or Commissioner of
Commerce, including revocation of the license of an Insurer to transact workers  compensation
insurance or revocation of authorization of a Self-insurer to self-insure workers  compensation
liability as authorized by law, for failure to pay Premiums to the Association when due, failure to
comply with the Plan, Reinsurance Agreement, or Operating Rules, or failure to comply with
Minnesota law. In the event that a political subdivision or group of political subdivisions that
self-insure workers  compensation liability fails to pay Premiums to the Association when due,
fails to comply with the Plan, Reinsurance Agreement, or Operating Rules, or otherwise fails to
comply with the Enabling Act, the Association shall notify the Commissioner and the State Auditor.
Revocation of authority to write workers  compensation insurance by an Insurer or to self-insure
automatically terminates membership in the Association. An Insurer may voluntarily withdraw from
membership in the Association only upon ceasing to be authorized by the Commissioner of Commerce to
transact workers  compensation insurance in Minnesota. A Self-insurer may voluntarily withdraw from
membership in the Association only when it stops self-insuring its workers  compensation liability,
which voluntary withdrawal is effective on the date determined by the Commissioner of Commerce. Any
unpaid Premiums which have been charged to a withdrawing or terminated Member shall be due and
payable as of the
effective date of withdrawal or termination, as determined by the
Commissioner of Commerce. A
Former Member shall continue to be bound by the Act, Plan, and any Reinsurance Agreement or
Operating Rules with respect to the performance and completion of any unsatisfied liabilities and
obligations to the Association.

Adopted by action of the Board of Directors of the Workers  Compensation Reinsurance Association on
the 21 st  day of December 2005, and approved by the Minnesota Commissioner of Labor and
Industry on the 22 nd  day of December 2005.

WORKERS 
COMPENSATION  
REINSURANCE ASSOCIATION 

By

Carl W. Cummins III

Its President

ATTEST 

By

Cynthia M. Smith

Its Secretary

Effective  January 1, 2006

-9-

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.11>
 6
 c03761exv10w11.htm
 ELECTION FORM FOR THE 2006 MINNESOTA WORKERS' COMPENSATION REINSURANCE ASSOCIATION REINSURANCE AGREEMENT

exv10w11 

Exhibit 10.11 

2006 CERTIFICATE OF REINSURANCE  
 for the  
  Agreement of  Reinsurance    between the  
 WORKERS  COMPENSATION REINSURANCE ASSOCIATION  
 and  
 RTW Inc 

American Compensation Insurance Company 0030392 
Bloomington Compensation Insurance Company 0012311  

This certifies that the entities named above are Members of the Workers  Compensation Reinsurance
Association (WCRA), and that the WCRA reinsures the Members  liability during the indicated
coverage period for benefits pursuant to Minn. Stat. Ch. 176 in excess of the Members  retention
limit for the period indicated above. This certificate provides for coverage in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the Reinsurance Agreement approved by the Commissioner of the Minnesota
Department of Labor and Industry on December 22, 2005. This certificate shall not be valid for any
portion of the indicated period during which an entity is not a Member of the Association.

Workers  Compensation Reinsurance Association  

Carl W. Cummins III 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Dated: December 27, 2005 

Worker s
Compensation Reinsurance Association    
Suite 1700, 400 Robert Street North, Saint Paul, MN 55101 Phone:
651.293.0999 Fax: 651.229.1848 www.wcra.biz

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.15>
 7
 c03761exv10w15.htm
 DESCRIPTION OF THE REINSURANCE AGREEMENT FOR 2006

exv10w15 

Exhibit 10.15 

Description of the Reinsurance Agreement for 2006 between ACIC, BCIC and 
GE Reinsurance Corporation and Max Re Ltd. effective January 1, 2006 

The Company, on behalf of its subsidiaries American Compensation Insurance Company (ACIC) and
Bloomington Compensation Insurance Company (BCIC), entered into reinsurance contracts for the
fiscal year beginning January 1, 2006. The following summarizes the significant terms of these
reinsurance agreements.

LIABILITY OF THE REINSURER  

The Reinsurers shall pay to ACIC and BCIC, with respect to Workers  Compensation and Employers 
Liability Business, the amount of Net Loss for each Occurrence, as defined in the contracts, in
excess of the Company s retention, but not exceeding the Limits of Liability of the Reinsurer as
follows:

* 
       
     All business written by the Company. 
Recoveries from the MN WCRA will inure to the benefit of this treaty 

COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION  

The agreement shall apply to new and renewal policies of ACIC and BCIC becoming effective at and
after 12:01 A.M., January 1, 2006, and to policies in force at 12:01 A.M., January 1, 2006, with
respect to losses resulting from Occurrences taking place at or after the aforesaid time and date.

The contracts are for one year and automatically expire at 12:01 A.M. on January 1, 2007. The
Reinsurers may also terminate the contracts in the event of significant adverse events at ACIC or
BCIC or in the event of a change in control of ACIC, BCIC or RTW, Inc.

REINSURANCE PREMIUM  

ACIC and BCIC agreed to pay the Reinsurer based on subject premiums earned for each Loss Layer as
shown above. These rates are similar to the rates that we paid in 2005.

</EX-10.15>

<EX-11>
 8
 c03761exv11.htm
 STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF INCOME PER SHARE

exv11 

Exhibit 11 

RTW, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY 
Statement Regarding Computation of Basic and Diluted Income Per Share 

</EX-11>

<EX-23>
 9
 c03761exv23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23 

Exhibit 23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 33-91368 of RTW, Inc. on
Form S-8/S-3, Registration Statement No. 33-91372 of RTW, Inc. on Form S-8, Registration Statement
No. 333-28585 of RTW, Inc. on Form S-8, Registration Statement No. 333-81408 of RTW, Inc. on Form
S-8, Registration Statement No. 333-114030 of RTW, Inc. on Form S-8 and Registration Statement No.
333-127107 of RTW, Inc. on Form S-8 of our reports dated February 14, 2006, with respect to the
consolidated financial statements and schedules of RTW, Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form
10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2005.

Minneapolis, Minnesota 
March 30, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 c03761exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATION OF PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

I, Jeffrey B. Murphy, President and Chief Executive Officer,
certify that:

1.  
     
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on
    Form  10-K  of RTW,
    Inc.; 

2.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
    statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
    necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
    financial information included in this report, fairly present in
    all material respects the financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
    periods presented in this report; 

4.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
    Rules  13a-15(e) 
    and  15d-15(e))  for the
    registrant and have: 

a)  
     
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)  
     
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this
    report based on such evaluation; and 

c)  
     
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
    registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an Annual
    Report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
    financial reporting; and 

5.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of registrant s Board of
    Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a)  
     
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal controls over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

b)  
     
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal controls over financial reporting. 

Dated: March 30, 2006 

By /s/ Jeffrey B. Murphy 
     Jeffrey B. Murphy 
    President and Chief Executive Officer 
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 c03761exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 

I, Alfred L LaTendresse, Chief Financial Officer, certify that:

1.  
     
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on
    Form  10-K  of RTW,
    Inc.; 

2.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
    statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
    necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  
     
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
    financial information included in this report, fairly present in
    all material respects the financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
    periods presented in this report; 

4.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
    Rules  13a-15(e) 
    and  15d-15(e))  for the
    registrant and have: 

a)  
     
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)  
     
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
    controls and procedures and presented in this report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this
    report based on such evaluation; and 

c)  
     
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
    the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
    registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an Annual
    Report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
    financial reporting; and 

5.  
     
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of registrant s Board of
    Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

a)  
     
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
    design or operation of internal controls over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

b)  
     
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
    other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal controls over financial reporting. 

Dated: March 30, 2006 

By /s/ Alfred L. LaTendresse 
     Alfred L. LaTendresse 
    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, 
    Treasurer and Secretary 
    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 12
 c03761exv32.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32 

Exhibit 32 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C.   1350, 

AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY
ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report on
Form  10-K  of RTW,
Inc. for the period ended December 31, 2005 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about the date
hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned certify
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

1.  
     
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and 

2.  
     
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
    material respects, the financial condition and results of
    operations of the Company. 

RTW, Inc.  

Dated: March 30, 2006 

By /s/ Jeffrey B. Murphy 
     Jeffrey B. Murphy 
    President and Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

Dated: March 30, 2006 

By /s/ Alfred L. LaTendresse 
     Alfred L. LaTendresse 
    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, 
    Treasurer and Secretary 

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

</EX-32>

<EX-99.1>
 13
 c03761exv99w1.htm
 SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM RESUMPTION

exv99w1 

Exhibit 99.1 

RTW, Inc. Resumes Share Repurchase Program 

MINNEAPOLIS   March 30, 2006   RTW, Inc. (Nasdaq: RTWI), today announced that its Board of
Directors approved resuming its common stock share repurchase program.

In September 1998, RTW s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase shares, from
time to time pursuant to the program, up to $4,000,000 of common stock. To date the Company has
spent $2.8 million to repurchase 395,000 shares, most recently in 2003.

These repurchases will be made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions
in compliance with the SEC s Rule 10b-18, subject to market conditions, share price, trading volume
and other factors. The repurchase program has no time limit and may be suspended from time to time
or discontinued. The share repurchases will be made from available capital. As of March 30, 2006,
RTW had approximately 5.5 million shares of common stock outstanding.

RTW is a leading provider of products and services to cost-effectively manage insured workers 
compensation programs and self-insured absence programs, Based in Minneapolis, Minnesota, we
provide disability and absence management services, primarily directed today at workers 
compensation to: (i) employers insured through our wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries, American
Compensation Insurance Company (ACIC) and Bloomington Compensation Insurance Company (BCIC); (ii)
self-insured employers on a fee-for-service basis; (iii) state assigned risk plans on a percent of
premium basis; (iv) other insurance companies; and (v) agents and employers on a consulting basis,
charging hourly fees. We developed two proprietary systems to manage disability and absence: (i)
ID15     , designed to quickly identify those injured employees who are likely to become
inappropriately dependent on disability system benefits, including workers  compensation; and (ii)
The RTW Solution     , designed to lower employers  disability costs and improve
productivity by returning injured employees to work as soon as safely possible. We support these
proprietary management systems with state-of-the-art technology and talented people dedicated to
our vision of transforming people from absent or idle to present and productive. ACIC offers
workers  compensation insurance to employers in Minnesota, Colorado and Michigan. BCIC offers
workers  compensation insurance to selected employers in Minnesota. Through our
Absentia SM  division, we have expanded non-insurance products and service offerings
nationally. Our services are effective across many industries.

RTW, Inc. is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol RTWI. For more information

1

on RTW,
Inc., please visit  www.rtwi.com. 

Safe Harbor Statement: Some of the statements made in this News Release, as well as
statements made by us in periodic press releases and oral statements made by us to analysts and
shareholders in the course of presentations about RTW, constitute  forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our
actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The following
important factors, among others, have affected and in the future could affect our actual results
and could cause our actual financial performance to differ materially from that expressed in any
forward-looking statement: (i) our ability to retain renewing policies and write new business with
a B  (Very Good, Secure) rating from A.M. Best; (ii) our ability to continue to extend our workers 
compensation and absence management services to self-insured employers and other alternative
markets and to operate profitably in providing these services; (iii) our ability to maintain or
increase rates on insured products in the markets in which we remain or alternatively non-renew or
turn away improperly priced business; (iv) the ability of our reinsurers to honor their obligations
to us; (v) our ability to accurately predict claim development; (vi) our ability to provide ID15,
The RTW Solution and other proprietary products and services to customers successfully; (vii) our
ability to manage both our existing claims and new claims in an effective manner; (viii) our
experience with claims frequency and severity; (ix) medical inflation; (x) competition and the
regulatory environment in which we operate; (xi) general economic and business conditions; (xii)
our ability to obtain and retain reinsurance at a reasonable cost; (xiii) changes in workers 
compensation regulation by states, including changes in mandated benefits or insurance company
regulation; (xiv) interest rate changes; and (xv) other factors as noted in our filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. This discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive but
is designed to highlight important factors that may affect our future performance.

2

</EX-99.1>

