<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_892112_0000950149-06-000151_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>943810</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>273212</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>509007</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>29</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950149-06-000151.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331105721
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950149-06-000151
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SIRNA THERAPEUTICS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000892112
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				341697351
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CO
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-27914
		FILM NUMBER:		06725989

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2950 WILDERNESS PLACE
		CITY:			BOULDER
		STATE:			CO
		ZIP:			80301
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3034496500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2950 WILDERNESS PLACE
		CITY:			BOULDER
		STATE:			CO
		ZIP:			80301

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	RIBOZYME PHARMACEUTICALS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19960306

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GMCJgd/yBu3JfJRHGiqr0Y4omIXTCew4vKS3JbvxPkG+LmmwAaypakErlIzuEgOH
 FotVFmjunfS2A7qeMeIn5Q==

 0000950149-06-000151.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 f19117e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
      Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file number 0-27914 

SIRNA THERAPEUTICS,
    INC.  

(Exact Name of Registrant as
    Specified in Its Charter)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

None 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

Common Stock, Par Value $0.01 Per Share 

Rights to Purchase Series AA Junior Participating
    Preferred Stock 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes  o      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No  o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
    and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.    o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large
    Accelerated
    Filer  o   Accelerated
    Filer  o   Non-accelerated
    Filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined by
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes  o      No   

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
    non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2005, was
    approximately $32.5 million.

As of March 15, 2006, the registrant had
    60,414,901 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per
    share, outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy Statement,
    which will be filed not later than 120 days following
    December 31, 2005 with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission in connection with Registrant s annual meeting
    of stockholders to be held on or about June 13, 2006 in
    San Francisco, California are incorporated by reference
    into Part III of this Report.

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page  

PART I   

Item 1. 

Business 

2

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

16

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff
    Comments 

23

Item 2. 

Properties 

23

Item 3. 

Legal
    Proceedings 

24

Item 4. 

Submission of
    Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

24

Executive Officers
    of the Registrant 

24

PART II   

Item 5. 

Market for
    Registrant s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

26

Item 6. 

Selected Financial
    Data 

28

Item 7. 

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations 

29

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

37

Item 8. 

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data 

37

Item 9. 

Changes in and
    Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure 

37

Item 9A. 

Controls and
    Procedures 

37

Item 9B. 

Other
    Information 

38

PART III   

Item 10. 

Directors and
    Executive Officers of the Registrant 

38

Item 11. 

Executive
    Compensation 

38

Item 12. 

Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
    Stockholder Matters 

38

Item 13. 

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions 

38

Item 14. 

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services 

38

PART IV   

Item 15. 

Exhibits and
    Financial Statement Schedules 

39

EXHIBIT 3.2    
     EXHIBIT 23.1    
     EXHIBIT 31.1    
     EXHIBIT 31.2    
     EXHIBIT 32.1    

1

Table of Contents   

PART I  

ITEM 1.      

BUSINESS   

Statements in this
     Form 10-K 
    contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations
    or forecasts of future events. You can identify these statements
    by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or
    current events. Forward-looking statements use words such as
     anticipate,   estimate, 
     expect,   will,   may, 
     intend,   plan,   believe  and
    similar expressions in connection with discussion of future
    operating or financial performance. The forward-looking
    statements include statements relating to future actions,
    prospective products and product approvals, future performance
    or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts,
    expenses and financial results. For example there is a very
    significant risk that promising pre-clinical or clinical results
    may not translate into an FDA-approved drug. In addition, patent
    applications may not result in issued patents, and issued
    patents may not be enforceable or could be invalidated.
    Furthermore, our ability to develop products and to operate as a
    going concern is contingent upon having readily available cash
    to fund our operating programs and are subject to the escalating
    expenses and risks associated with the initiation of clinical
    trials and their potential outcomes. Other risks and
    uncertainties include, among others, our early stage of
    development and short operating history, our history and
    expectation of losses and need to raise capital, our need to
    obtain clinical validation and regulatory approval for
     Sirna-027, 
     Sirna-034 
    and our other product candidates, any of which could have
    negative results, our need to engage collaborators, our need to
    obtain and protect intellectual property, and the risk of
    third-party patent infringement claims. Forward-looking
    statements are not guarantees of future performance and they can
    be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown
    risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially
    from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a
    result of various factors, including, without limitation, those
    listed under Item 1A,  Risk Factors  included
    herein. Except to fulfill our obligations under the federal
    securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update
    forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances
    after the date on which it is made. 

An
    Overview of Our Company  

Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. ( Sirna  or the
     Company ) is focused on developing therapeutics based
    on RNA interference (RNAi). We are using our expertise in
    nucleic acids to design, stabilize, manufacture and deliver
    short interfering nucleic acids (siRNAs) that selectively
    activate the process of RNA interference. We are in research,
    preclinical
     and/or 
    clinical development with product candidates in the following
    areas: Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD), chronic
    hepatitis, dermatology (initially permanent hair removal),
    asthma, Huntington s disease (HD) and diabetes. We are
    evaluating disease targets and indications for the development
    of RNA interference-based therapeutics on our own and in
    collaboration with academic research institutions and commercial
    enterprises such as our collaboration in AMD with Allergan, Inc.
    (Allergan) and our collaboration in Huntington s disease
    with Targeted Genetics. In addition, Sirna manufactures and
    sells cGMP grade oligonucleotides to other companies under
    contract manufacturing agreements.

Since our inception as Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 1992,
    we have dedicated ourselves to engineering RNA-based molecules
    for therapeutic and diagnostic purposes. In 2001 we began to
    study RNAi in greater detail and in 2003, based on scientific
    advancements and the potential of the field; we directed our
    research and development activities entirely to RNAi technology.
    Concurrent with our redirection, we changed our name to Sirna
    Therapeutics, Inc. We believe siRNA-based drugs may present an
    entirely new platform of therapeutics. Our expertise in nucleic
    acid technology enables us to be a leader in this very
    promising, emerging field.

Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq National Market under the
    symbol  RNAI.  Our principal executive offices are
    located at 185 Berry Street, Suite 6504,
    San Francisco, California 94107 and our phone number is
     (415) 512-7624. 
    Our Internet home page is located at
     http://www.sirna.com ; however, the information in, or
    that can be accessed through, our home page is not part of this
    report. Our annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, on
    or through our Internet home page as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
    furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

2

Table of Contents   

We are
    developing a new class of RNA-based drugs.  

RNA
    Interference Background   

The naturally occurring (endogenous) process of reducing the
    expression of messenger RNA (mRNA) viral RNA via a short double
    stranded sequence of ribonucleic acid is called RNA interference
    or RNAi. RNA interference is a mechanism used by cells to
    regulate the expression of genes and replication of viruses. The
    RNA interference mechanism induces the destruction of target RNA
    using naturally occurring cellular protein machinery. The
    technology upon which RNAi-based therapeutics is based generally
    utilizes this cellular machinery by introducing a
    double-stranded sequence of nucleic acid, such as RNA, capable
    of reducing the expression of mRNA and viral RNA in a
    sequence-specific manner. For simplicity, we refer to the
    double-stranded RNA molecule facilitating this process as a
    siRNA (short interfering RNA).

Harnessing the natural phenomenon of RNA interference holds
    potential for the development of a new class of drugs applicable
    to a wide range of diseases that result from undesirable protein
    production or viral replication. Although there is widespread
    use of RNA interference-based reagents for target validation,
    the development of RNA interference-based pharmaceuticals for
    therapeutic uses is currently in an early stage of clinical and
    preclinical development.

To date, one of the major limitations of RNA interference has
    been the instability of unmodified siRNAs. Unmodified siRNAs
    generally break down rapidly in the body, thereby restricting
    the duration and magnitude of their potential therapeutic
    activity. Effective drugs need to be resistant to breakdown in
    the human body and in cells to ensure a sustained therapeutic
    response. Over the past 10 years, we have developed the
    chemical and pharmacological expertise and a portfolio of
    patents to support the design and synthesis of chemically
    modified siRNA derivatives that retain substantially all the
    properties required for recognizing their target but also have
    increased resistance to degradation by nucleases. Our chemically
    modified and stabilized siRNAs are stable in human serum for
    several days in serum stability assays. This is in contrast to
    unmodified siRNAs, most of which have human serum stability of
    less than a few minutes. Chemical modification of siRNAs can
    improve their overall potency, pharmacological properties and
    duration of action. We have also shown that chemical
    modification of siRNAs can efficiently block double-stranded
    RNA-mediated interferon and immune response  in vivo. 
    Sirna has made stabilized siRNAs against a number of targets and
    successfully tested them in cell culture and in some cases in
    animal model systems, showing reduced expression of specific
    genes or viral titers without affecting expression of other
    genes. These targets cover the therapeutic fields of
    ophthalmology, central nervous system, metabolic, inflammatory,
    renal, infectious, and oncology diseases and dermatological
    conditions, for which we have filed patent applications
    describing siRNAs against these targets. We believe this
    provides us with a competitive advantage in developing RNA
    interference-based therapeutics.

Another limitation of  in vivo  application of siRNAs is
    their delivery to the desired organ, tissue and cell site in the
    body. Unformulated siRNAs are not readily taken up by the cells
    in the body. Chemical modification of siRNAs therefore is
    essential but not sufficient to achieve potential gene silencing
     in vivo.  Delivery of nucleic acid-based therapeutics is
    generally more challenging than traditional small molecule drug
    delivery. We are exploring a number of delivery possibilities,
    including local (directly to the target area), systemic
    (directly into the blood stream), and topical delivery (directly
    to the surface of the skin). We are pursuing multiple drug
    delivery and formulation systems with the intention of creating
    an effective and efficacious siRNA therapeutic effect for each
    of our drug programs, thereby creating additional barriers to
    entry as well as strategic and competitive advantages in drug
    performance.

RNA
    interference has potentially significant advantages over
    traditional drugs   

RNA interference-based therapeutics have potentially significant
    advantages over traditional approaches to treating a number of
    important diseases, including the following:

Broad Applicability.   RNA interference-based
    drugs can potentially treat multiple diseases or conditions for
    which an abnormal gene function or a viral agent can be
    identified as the cause or as an essential contributing factor
    to the disease.

3

Table of Contents   

Therapeutic Precision.   RNA interference-based
    drugs may reduce or avoid some of the side effects associated
    with designing traditional drugs to inhibit expression of only
    disease associated and targeted genes, and not interfere with
    other genes in the body.

Target RNA Degradation.   RNA interference-based
    drugs are designed to destroy the target RNA and therefore stop
    the associated production of undesirable protein required for
    disease progression, which may provide a longer duration of
    effect compared to most drugs that only temporarily prevent
    targeted protein function.

Our
    Business Strategy  

Our strategy is to use our considerable expertise, know-how and
    intellectual property to create shareholder value. Specifically,

We intend to independently develop chemically optimized and
    formulated siRNA molecules for therapeutic applications in
    several disease areas and dermatological conditions.

We will enter into partnerships, collaborations or alliances
    with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop RNA
    interference-based therapeutics, especially for targets and in
    therapeutic areas where partners will bring us unique
    capabilities.

We will seek to maintain and expand our patent portfolio and
    proprietary technology. We have filed over 250 patent
    applications that we believe are important to the
    identification, design, chemical modification, synthesis,
    formulation and manufacture of RNAi-based and siRNA therapeutics
    for commercialization. 50 of those patents have issued. In
    addition, we have exclusive license to six patent families
    bearing on both RNAi technology and specific therapeutic disease
    areas. We will continue to aggressively pursue patent protection
    to maintain worldwide rights relating to the development,
    manufacture and sale of RNAi-based and siRNA therapeutics.

We intend to leverage our expertise in the design, chemical
    modification, formulation and manufacture of RNA-based
    therapeutics. We believe that we have established one of the
    leading RNA-based therapeutic research and development teams
    that can provide lead optimization, process development and
    manufacturing to others in need of this expertise. We believe
    that we will be able to capitalize on our continuing investment
    in nucleic acid technology by entering into technology transfer
    and contract manufacturing arrangements with collaborators to
    generate revenues, while retaining this capability for our own
    drug development.

We have established a strong scientific and business foundation
    upon which we can establish partnerships, collaborations and
    alliances with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which
    are reproducible from a transaction standpoint yet allow us the
    flexibility to forge both target and therapeutic-specific
    collaborations. We expect the pharmaceutical industry to pursue
    a variety of RNAi-based therapeutic deals over the coming years.
    Based our on research and early Phase 1 clinical trial
    successes and leadership position, we believe that the industry
    will view us as a preferred partner for those transactions.

Gene
    Expression and Human Disease  

The undesirable production of certain proteins (gene expression)
    is a substantial factor in many human diseases. The abnormality
    may be due to a defective gene, the over- or under-production of
    a protein by a  normal  gene, or the expression of
    genes from viruses or bacteria. This abnormal protein production
    may have direct effects

4

Table of Contents   

on cells within the body or may initiate a series of events
    involving other proteins, thereby producing disease. Gene
    expression by viruses or bacteria causes replication and growth
    of infectious agents.

Protein production generally involves two steps. First, the
    information from the DNA sequence of the gene is
     transcribed  to mRNA. The second step involves
     translation  of the mRNA and its information into a
    protein. The process by which genetic information is
     expressed  in the form of a protein is highly
    selective; production of a particular protein generally requires
    its own specific DNA sequence that leads to a corresponding mRNA
    sequence. The ability to identify abnormal production of protein
    is an important tool in diagnosing human disease. A typical mRNA
    is believed to produce approximately 5,000 copies of the
    protein. By destroying a single copy of mRNA, production of
    5,000 copies of the target protein could potentially be blocked.
    Preventing the formation of a protein by targeting its mRNA can,
    therefore, be a more potent approach for therapeutic
    intervention than preventing the function of the target protein.
    Our RNA interference technology targets mRNA and blocks the
    formation of its associated protein. Blocking a gene s
    expression using RNA interference, once a protein target has
    been identified, is, we believe, a promising therapeutic
    approach for those diseases where abnormal protein
    overproduction is an important factor.

Our
    Nucleic Acid Platform Technology  

Our approach to drug discovery and development begins by
    identifying a human or viral gene or genetic material causing or
    contributing to disease. We analyze the nucleotide sequence of
    the mRNA corresponding to the human gene or infectious agent and
    design one or more complementary siRNA nucleotide sequences. We
    then synthesize the siRNAs using our proprietary processes.

Initially, we test the effectiveness of the siRNA in cell
    culture and, if possible, in animal models. If the siRNA reduces
    or stops production of the protein or infectious agent
    associated with the disease, or slows the associated growth or
    spread of the disease, not only have we validated the disease
    contributing function of the gene or infectious agent, but we
    have also identified a drug candidate against such gene or
    infectious agent.

Once we identify a target nucleic acid sequence and related
    siRNA, we attempt to improve the effectiveness of the siRNA by
    varying its chemical structure and composition to further
    increase its stability and improve its pharmacokinetic
    properties in the human body. Alternatively, we start with a
    chemically optimized siRNA structure and test the effectiveness
    of such chemically optimized siRNAs against a given target in
    cell culture and, if possible, in animal models. To date, we
    have achieved a number of significant milestones in siRNA
    technology development, including the following:

Stability.   To be useful as a therapeutic
    treatment, siRNAs must remain stable in human serum and cells
    long enough to destroy the targeted RNA and, ideally, long
    enough to destroy multiple copies of the target RNA. Unmodified
    siRNAs are stable in human serum for only a few minutes. We have
    successfully produced chemically modified siRNAs that retain
    their activity in cell culture and are stable in human serum for
    several days in serum stability assays. We have carried out
    experiments in multiple animal model systems and in humans (in a
    Phase 1 clinical trial) that demonstrate the activity of
    our stabilized siRNA molecules.

Circulation Time.   Another hurdle in the
    development of siRNAs for therapeutic use is reducing drug
    clearance from the blood stream and the site of action. siRNAs
    are rapidly cleared from circulation by the renal system,
    generally in less than an hour. We have developed chemically
    stabilized and optimized siRNAs using nanoparticle formulations
    that have improved the circulation time of siRNAs to several
    days. We have carried out
     proof-of-principle 
    experiments in multiple animal model systems, including
    non-human primates, which demonstrate the activity of these
    stabilized siRNA formulations with improved circulation time.

Interferon and Cytokine Response.   It has been
    observed that double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) molecules generally
    induce interferon and cytokine response. We have developed
    chemically modified and optimized siRNAs that can diminish or
    substantially avoid the induction of interferon and other
    cytokine responses.

Selectivity.   Ideally, siRNA molecules should
    interact only with the target RNA and therefore not affect the
    functions of other genes. As a result, siRNA molecules should
    have the potential to be less toxic than traditional drugs that
    often interact with many targets. We have demonstrated a high
    degree of selectivity with

5

Table of Contents   

siRNAs. Based on our work and the work of others, we believe
    that a binding region of approximately 19 nucleotides is optimal
    for siRNA selectivity.

Delivery.   Successful development of any drug
    requires that the drug be delivered to the desired site in the
    body, and delivery of nucleic acid-based therapeutics is
    generally challenging. We are exploring a number of delivery
    possibilities, including local (directly to the target area),
    systemic (directly into the blood stream), and topical delivery
    (directly to the surface of the skin). We are working on
    improving the delivery of siRNAs by various methods in order to
    increase the tissue-specific delivery of these drugs  in
    vivo.  We have developed novel nanoparticle delivery
    technologies capable of efficient and specific delivery of the
    siRNA compounds to liver hepatocytes, lung, hair follicles and a
    number of other important cells, tissues and organs. We have
    carried out experiments in several animal model systems,
    including non-human primates, which demonstrate systemic
    efficacy of stabilized siRNA in our nanoparticle formulations in
    liver hepatocytes following a normal intravenous route of
    administration. In addition, in our asthma program, we have
    demonstrated that aerosol delivery of our
    nanoparticle-formulated siRNAs results in high concentrations of
    siRNAs in respiratory tissue while minimizing systemic exposure.

Safety.   To date, the assessment of the safety
    of our chemically stabilized siRNA drugs in human beings is
    limited to our Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with AMD.
    Single ascending doses of Sirna-027 have been demonstrated to be
    safe and well tolerated, with no adverse events (either ocular
    or non-ocular) attributable to the product candidate. The
    tolerability of systemically administered siRNAs formulated in
    nanoparticles has been evaluated after single intravenous doses
    in both mice and monkeys. Similar to the findings with
    Sirna-027, ranges of doses have been identified which would
    permit further development of these types of
    nanoparticle-formulated, chemically stabilized siRNAs.

Effectiveness.   We have demonstrated through
    internal research that RNA interference can reduce the amount of
    target mRNA and the corresponding level of protein produced in
    cell culture and animal models. Additionally, our siRNAs
    targeted against the VEGF pathway inhibit the formation of new
    blood vessels in ocular and tumor animal models. These
    preclinical results have been demonstrated to be true in
    patients as well, where a single administration of Sirna-027 to
    patients with AMD induces stabilization or improvement of visual
    acuity in 96% of the treated patients 8 weeks after the
    administration of the product candidate. In addition, our
    anti-viral siRNAs have been shown to be effective in decreasing
    hepatitis C (HCV) and hepatitis B (HBV) viral replication
    in cell culture models and in animal models, including non-human
    primates. Internally and in association with a number of
    academic collaborators, we have demonstrated in animal models
    that our siRNAs can efficiently inhibit target gene expression
     in vivo. 

Manufacturing.   To meet our needs for research,
    preclinical studies, clinical trials and the eventual
    commercialization of RNA interference-based therapeutics, we
    must be able to manufacture or have already manufactured,
    sufficient amounts of drug in a cost effective manner. We have
    developed proprietary technology allowing us to synthesize
    several hundred stabilized siRNA molecules in hundreds of
    microgram quantities per month. These quantities are sufficient
    to permit us to rapidly perform direct cell-based screening of
    multiple potential target sites. We have also developed the
    capability to manufacture kilogram quantities of siRNAs under
    the FDA s current good manufacturing practices (cGMP).

Our
    Product Development Process  

The development process for our products starts with research
    and preclinical development. Research includes identifying a
    target protein or viral sequence, synthesizing a panel of
    appropriate siRNAs to block expression of the target protein or
    virus, and testing the activity of the siRNAs in a specific cell
    population. We will pursue preclinical and clinical testing only
    for those products that we believe have a high likelihood of
    commercial success based on identifying a disease causing
    target, a favorable pharmacokinetic profile and an unmet medical
    need.

Preclinical testing includes pharmacology and toxicology testing
    in animal models, product formulation, dosage studies and
    manufacturing
     scale-up  for
    submission of the data necessary to comply with regulatory
    requirements of the FDA and similar agencies in other countries
    prior to commencing human trials.

6

Table of Contents   

Our
    Product Development Programs  

Our siRNA product candidate portfolio is built around three
    major methods of administration. We are seeking to develop new
    drugs using siRNAs that address significant and unmet medical
    needs, as shown in the following table:

Local Delivery
    Programs  

Systemic Delivery
    Programs  

Topical Delivery
    Programs  

Age Related Macular
    Degeneration (AMD):
       Sirna-027 via
    intra-ocular injection

Hepatitis C
    Virus:    Sirna-034 via
    intravenous administration

Dermatology:   
    Use of siRNAs for permanent removal of unwanted hair

Asthma:   
    Aerosol administration of siRNAs

Type II
    Diabetes:    Standard
    intravenous or subcutaneous administration of siRNAs

Huntington s
    Disease:     Stereotactic
    administration of vector expressed or synthetic siRNAs

Local
    Delivery Programs (Directly to target area)  

Age-Related
    Macular Degeneration (AMD)   

Age-related macular degeneration, or AMD, is caused by the
    deterioration of the central portion of the retina in the eye.
    This disease is the leading cause of irreversible vision loss
    among Americans over the age of 55. The  wet  form of
    AMD accounts for 10% to 15% of all AMD cases and is associated
    with severe vision loss. Approximately 1.2 million people
    in the United States have wet AMD, with approximately 200,000
    new cases per year. Wet AMD results from a proliferation of
    abnormal blood vessels beneath the retina, a process called
    neovascularization. To date, we have demonstrated that we can
    inhibit the formation of new blood vessels in cell culture and
    several animal model systems of ocular neovascularization using
    our chemically optimized siRNAs targeting genes in the vascular
    endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathway.

Current approved therapies for wet AMD include laser
    photocoagulation,
    Visudyne   
    (offered by QLT/Novartis) and
    Macugen   
    (offered by Eyetech/Pfizer). There are a number of other product
    candidates in preclinical and clinical trials that target wet
    AMD, including
    Lucentis   
    (from Genentech/Novartis), which is a customized fragment of an
    anti-VEGF antibody drug currently under FDA review. Also, Acuity
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc., an early stage biotechnology company, is
    currently in Phase 2 clinical trials to evaluate their wet
    AMD product candidate,
    Cand5   ,
    which is an unmodified siRNA.

In November 2004, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of
    Sirna-027, a chemically optimized siRNA targeting Vascular
    Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-1 (VEGFR-1), which is a key
    component of the clinically validated VEGF pathway. The
    Phase 1 clinical trial was primarily designed to test
    safety and tolerability of Sirna-027. To date, we have completed
    enrollment and the
     3-month 
    assessment point for all patients; the patients will be followed
    for safety for up to two years. The Study is being conducted at
    four centers in the United States: John s Hopkins
    University, the Cleveland Clinic, the combined
    Harvard   Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary,
    and UCLA. Under the supervision of Dr. Peter Campochiaro,
    clinical and laboratory data were compiled and reviewed at the
    Wilmer Ophthalmologic Institute of John s Hopkins
    University. Preliminary results from the Phase 1 trial,
    which were presented at the Association for Research in Vision
    and Ophthalmology (ARVO) conference in May 2005 and at the
    annual American Academy of Ophthalmology meeting in October
    2005, demonstrated that Sirna-027 is safe and well tolerated.
    Twenty-five of 26 patients (96%) showed visual acuity
    stabilization and 23% of those patients experienced clinically
    significant improvement in visual acuity eight weeks after a
    single injection. These results also showed a relevant decrease
    in central foveal thickness measured by ocular coherence
    tomography (OCT), which is the first demonstration of biological
    activity of a siRNA in humans. We anticipate that our strategic
    partner, Allergan, will begin Phase 2 studies with
    Sirna-027 in 2006. The goal of the Phase 2 program will be
    to identify the optimal dose of Sirna-027 and to establish the
    extent and duration of its therapeutic effect.

7

Table of Contents   

Asthma   

Asthma is a chronic respiratory disease which currently affects
    15 million people in the U.S. Asthma is the leading
    cause of childhood hospital admissions as well as absenteeism
    from work, and is the cause of approximately 5,000 deaths per
    year. Despite extensive progress in the understanding of the
    causes of asthma, the prevalence of asthma has been steadily
    increasing for the past 20 years. Although there are many
    pharmaceutical treatments that manage asthma symptoms, there are
    no drugs that effectively modulate the progression of the
    disease. The U.S. market for asthma therapies in 2003
    totaled $13.3 billion.

We are developing a product candidate for local delivery to the
    lungs to treat asthma. Clinical data from others has
    demonstrated a critical role for cytokines generated by Th2
    lymphocytes in the pathogenesis of asthma. Certain key cytokines
    orchestrate airway inflammation which underlies airway
    hyper-responsiveness, while others regulate the production of
    immunoglobulin E (IgE) in allergic asthmatics. Knocking out
    these cytokines by systemic or local (aerosol) delivery to the
    respiratory tract may be a benefit in treating the disease. We
    are working internally and with Dr. Erwin Gelfand of the
    National Jewish Medical & Research Center to test
    siRNAs that target Th2 cytokines (e.g., IL-4, IL-13 and their
    receptors), which play a critical role in inflammation and
    bronchioconstriction in the airways. We have also made
    significant progress internally in the local delivery of
    chemically stabilized, nanoparticle-formulated siRNAs to the
    lung by aerosol administration. We believe this approach will
    enable treatment of important respiratory diseases such as
    asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and
    allergic rhinitis. Aerosol delivery of our
    nanoparticle-formulated siRNAs results in high concentrations of
    siRNAs in respiratory tissue while minimizing systemic exposure.
    We recently demonstrated a dramatic improvement in residence
    time in lung tissue of our chemically stabilized,
    nanoparticle-formulated siRNAs. We have shown that this
    improvement is dependent upon formulation of siRNAs with our
    nanoparticle technology. We have demonstrated in animal models
    of respiratory disease a significant reduction of airway
    inflammation and hyper-responsiveness with our
    nanoparticle-formulated siRNAs. This work serves as the
    foundation for development of therapeutics in these and other
    respiratory indications.

Huntington s
    Disease   

Huntington s disease (HD) is a devastating, degenerative
    brain disorder for which there presently is no effective
    treatment or cure. According to the National Institute of
    Neurological Disorders and Stroke, 30,000 people in the United
    States alone have HD, and at least another 200,000 are at risk
    of developing the disease. HD accounts for $2 billion in
    patient costs annually in the U.S. HD results from
    genetically programmed degeneration of neurons in certain areas
    of the brain. This degeneration causes uncontrolled movements,
    loss of intellectual faculties, and emotional disturbance.

HD typically begins in mid-life, between the ages of 30 and 45,
    though onset may occur as early as the age of 2. Children who
    develop the juvenile form of the disease rarely live to
    adulthood. Early symptoms of HD may affect cognitive ability or
    mobility and include depression, mood swings, forgetfulness,
    clumsiness, involuntary twitching and lack of co-ordination. As
    the disease progresses, concentration and short-term memory
    diminish and involuntary movements of the head, trunk and limbs
    increase. Walking, speaking and swallowing abilities
    deteriorate. Eventually the person is unable to care for him or
    herself. Death follows from complications such as choking,
    infection or heart failure.

Our HD program is focused on two parallel approaches. One
    approach involves the use of adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector
    delivery of siRNAs to the brain. The second approach involves
    the use of chemically modified, nanoparticle-formulated siRNAs
    administered directly to the brain.

In June 2004, we entered into a worldwide exclusive license
    agreement with the University of Iowa Research Foundation for
    intellectual property relating to RNAi technology covering
    siRNAs for targeting neurological disease indications, including
    HD and Alzheimer s disease. In January 2005, we entered
    into a collaboration with Targeted Genetics Corporation for the
    development of AAV vector delivery of siRNAs that target the
    expression of Huntington s protein, which in its mutant
    form causes the disease. Our scientific advisor and
    collaborator, Dr. Beverly Davidson at the University of
    Iowa, has published data demonstrating that the delivery of
    siRNA using an AAV vector efficiently inhibited gene expression
    in an animal model of Huntington s Disease. The data
    published in the April issue of the Proceedings of the National
    Academy of Sciences, showed for the first time that

8

Table of Contents   

in a validated mouse model of Huntington s Disease, an
    siRNA can inhibit the progression of the disease, with a
    significant improvement in motor functions and neurological
    abnormalities. In our collaborative work with Targeted Genetics,
    Dr. Beverly Davidson and Dr. Krystof Bankiewicz at the
    University of California, San Francisco, we continue to
    make significant progress in the potential treatment of
    Huntington s disease. We are currently evaluating the
    pharmacokinetics and efficacy of three lead candidates in
    transgenic mice and non-human primates. We are sufficiently
    encouraged with the progress of preclinical development for this
    program that we expect to select a clinical development
    candidate by the end of 2006.

Systemic
    Delivery Programs (Directly into the blood stream)  

Chronic
    Hepatitis   

There are approximately 3.9 million individuals infected
    with chronic hepatitis in the United States and over
    170 million worldwide. Of the 3.9 million infected
    individuals in the United States, 70% have chronic
    hepatitis C and are potential candidates for treatment.
    Each year in the United States, hepatitis C virus (HCV)
    infects between 250,000 to 500,000 new individuals and leads to
    between 8,000 to 10,000 deaths. It is one of the most common
    blood-borne infections in the United States and has been
    identified as a  silent epidemic  and  a daunting
    challenge to public health  by the United States Congress.
    Current therapies for HCV, including various interferons
    combined with
    Ribavarin   
    (Hoffmann-La Roche), are effective in approximately 50% of
    patients and can have significant side effects.

There are no validated  in vivo  rodent or other small
    animal models to study potential therapies for HCV, therefore,
    we have used surrogate mouse models of the hepatitis B virus
    (HBV) replication. Our rationale for using HBV mouse models to
    evaluate systemic delivery of siRNAs to the hepatocytes was
    mainly based on the fact that both HBV and HCV replicate in the
    cytoplasm of hepatocytes in the liver. Intravenous
    (IV) dosing at 3 mg/kg of our nanoparticle-formulated
    and chemically stabilized siRNAs targeting HBV RNA resulted in a
    greater than 3.5 log reduction in viral titers for at least
    14 days in a mouse model of HBV replication.
    Pharmacokinetic studies have shown that we can deliver up to 80%
    of the siRNA dose to the hepatocytes of mice via systemic
    administration of siRNAs using our proprietary nanoparticle
    formulations. In non-human primate models, systemic
    administration of these siRNAs affords approximately a three log
    reduction in viral titers for at least fourteen days.

We are in the preclinical stage of development of siRNAs that
    target the HCV viral RNA to treat HCV infection. On
    December 21, 2005, we announced the selection of our HCV
    drug candidate, Sirna-034. After successful preclinical testing
    in rodents and non-human primates, we have demonstrated that a
    systemically delivered chemically optimized siRNA compound can
    dramatically suppress Hepatitis C viral titers via an RNA
    interference mechanism. Our compound, Sirna-034, is a
    systemically delivered nanoparticle-formulated therapeutic
    targeting the Hepatitis C virus. In preparation for Phase 1
    clinical trials, we submitted a Pre-Investigational New Drug
    (pre-IND) package to FDA on January 31, 2006. We expect to
    initiate IND-enabling toxicology studies in April, 2006,
    followed by the filing of an IND later in 2006.

Type II
    Diabetes   

Type II diabetes is the most common form of diabetes. In
    Type II diabetes, the body either does not produce enough
    insulin or the cells ignore the insulin. Insulin is necessary
    for the body to be able to use glucose. Glucose is the basic
    fuel for the cells in the body and insulin takes the glucose
    from the blood into the cells. When glucose builds up in the
    blood instead of going into cells, it can cause metabolic
    problems that lead to heart disease (cardiovascular disease),
    blindness (retinopathy), nerve damage (neuropathy), and kidney
    damage. According to the National Institutes of Health,
    20.8 million people in the United States, or seven percent
    of the population, have diabetes. Of these 20.8 million,
    14.6 million people have been diagnosed with the disease
    and 6.2 million are undiagnosed.

We are currently in preclinical studies to systemically deliver
    siRNAs directed at
     PTP-1B 
    (phosphatase 1B), a target in diabetes that is associated with
    insulin resistance. As an intracellular cytoplasmic protein,
     PTP-1B  has
    been a
     difficult-to-reach 
    target for small molecule drugs and biologics. The catalytic
    pocket of the enzyme is large, which has made it difficult to
    synthesize a small chemical inhibitor. Further, due to its large
    family of congeners,

9

Table of Contents   

specificity has been difficult to obtain by small molecules.
    These developmental challenges make
     PTP-1B  a
    suitable target for an RNAi approach.

The technology pioneered in our HCV and HBV programs to
    efficiently deliver chemically stabilized siRNAs to the liver
    now enables us to address other liver associated disease
    indications such as diabetes. By approaching Type II
    diabetes early in the mechanistic cascade, we believe siRNAs
    will become an important innovation in the treatment of this
    devastating and rapidly growing disease.

Topical
    Delivery Program (Directly to the surface of the skin)  

Dermatology   

In December 2004, we launched our dermatology division following
    the acquisition of Skinetics Biosciences, Inc. (Skinetics).
    Pursuant to the acquisition, Skinetics founder, Dr. Angela
    Christiano of Columbia University, a leading researcher in the
    area of hair biology, became an exclusive consultant to the
    Company, and we began our first dermatology program focused on
    the removal of unwanted hair. The removal of unwanted hair
    accounts for an estimated $4 billion dollar market in the
    U.S. (including shaving). We are in the preclinical stages
    of developing an siRNA targeting the  hairless 
    protein, so-called because people who have a nonfunctional
    version of this protein do not grow any hair. We believe that
    infrequent treatments with an siRNA targeting the
     hairless  protein could achieve results comparable to
    those seen in laser hair removal with less inconvenience and
    discomfort to the patient. In collaboration with
    Dr. Christiano, we have demonstrated that topical
    application of siRNA in mice directed against the
     hairless  gene can result in compromised hair
    follicle integrity consistent with the  hairless 
    phenotype resulting in permanent hair removal. As a part of our
    dermatology program we continue to make progress towards
    functional and efficient topical delivery of siRNAs to hair
    follicles. We have identified siRNAs that potently reduce
    expression of the hairless transcription factor in keratinocytes
    and have developed specific topical formulations that deliver
    siRNAs efficiently to hair follicles. We expect to select a
    clinical candidate in 2006 and to file an IND in 2007.

Our
    Patents and Proprietary Technology  

Obtaining patent protection as well as protecting patent rights
    and other proprietary rights is crucial to our business. In
    addition to patents, we rely upon trade secrets, know-how and
    continuing technological innovations in the design, synthesis,
    and purification of nucleic acid molecules. We also rely on
    licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive
    position. It is our policy to file patent applications in both
    the United States and foreign countries to protect inventions
    that we believe are important in the development of our business.

We have filed patents on our internal research and in-licensed
    patents from third parties, such as academic institutions.
    Altogether, we have over 50 issued patents in the U.S. and
    abroad and over 250 pending patent applications.

10

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes our internally developed and
    in-licensed intellectual property estate (excluding ribozyme
    technology):

Patent Filings  

Status  

Seminal RNAi or siRNA
    Technology    

Sirna    No-ribo 
    siNA Technology

10 patent applications

2 granted (UK)

Sirna   Multifunctional
    siRNA Technology

5 patent applications

Pending

Sirna-Conserved
    Sequence Targeting Technology

5 patent applications

1 granted (UK)

MicroRNA Technology

2 patent applications

pending

Tuschl
     et al.  Patent  (Worldwide Exclusive License from
    Univ. Mass. Medical School) 

2 patent applications

Pending

Rana Patents on
    chemically-modified siRNAs  (Worldwide Exclusive License from
    the University of Massachusetts Medical School) 

3 patent applications

Pending

Fire
     et al.  Patent  ( Worldwide Non-exclusive License
    from Carnegie Institution of Washington and the University of
    Massachusetts) 

3 patent applications

1 Issued

Therapeutic Targets for
    siRNA    

Sirna   RNAi
    Gene Targets (including VEGF, IL-4, IL-13, Hairless,
     PTP-1B,  HCV
    and other viruses)

120 patent applications

5 granted (UK)

Davidson
     et al. , Patents on siRNAs against neurological
    disease targets such as Huntington s Disease ( Worldwide
    Exclusive License from the University of Iowa Research
    Foundation) 

10 patent applications

1 granted (Australia)

Christiano
     et al. , Patents on genes involved in hair growth and
    hair loss  (Worldwide Exclusive License from Columbia
    University) 

5 patent applications

Pending

Sirna   Oligonucleotide
    Chemistry & Delivery Technology  

60 patent applications

24 Issued

Sirna   Oligonucleotide
    Manufacturing & Process Technology  

25 patent applications

16 Issued

SUMMARY OF INTELLECTUAL
    PROPERTY ESTATE  

250 Patent
    Applications  

50
    Issued   

Sirna
    Invented and Owned Patents   

Our internal scientific work has resulted in over 50 issued
    patents and over 225 patent applications. Over the past year we
    were issued six patents in the UK, one in Australia and three in
    the U.S. In January of 2006, the United States Patent and
    Trademark Office granted us a patent for the chemical synthesis
    and manufacturing of RNA. This patent broadly covers a process
    for the synthesis, deprotection and purification of nucleic
    acids with one or more ribonucleotides. We believe this process
    is critical for the efficient synthesis of RNA at high yields
    and high purity and is applicable to both small- and large-scale
    production of oligonucleotides such as siRNAs and aptamers.

One of the patents granted to us in the UK broadly covers any
    siRNA molecule which targets conserved sequences within a virus
    or a gene. A challenge to developing anti-viral therapies is the
    need to target multiple strains of the virus, as well as
    preventing escape mutants, with a single therapeutic agent. One
    of the ways of approaching this problem is to target a conserved
    region of the virus which does not generally mutate in various
    strains and subtypes of the virus. This patent covers this
    approach which we feel will be important to developing
    RNAi-based therapeutics against a variety of viruses including
    HBV, HCV, HIV, RSV, influenza and avian flu.

We were issued four target patents in the UK covering chemically
    modified siRNAs targeting vascular endothelial growth factor
    (VEGF), VEGF receptor, the Hepatitis C Virus and beta secretase
    (BACE). BACE has been linked to Alzheimer s disease. The
    claims of these patents are not limited to any specific siRNA
    sequence or structure but broadly cover any siRNA used against
    the entire targeted gene. We have filed over 120 patent

11

Table of Contents   

applications describing over 250 important mammalian disease
    targets including: alpha-synuclein (Parkinson s disease),
    HBV (hepatitis B), HCV (hepatitis C), HD (Huntington s
    disease), HIV (human immunodeficiency virus), HR (hairless
    gene), influenza virus (flu), IL-4, IL-13, IL-4 Receptors, IL-13
    Receptors (asthma, respiratory diseases), NOGO & NOGO
    Receptors (spinal cord injury),
     PTP-1B 
    (diabetes, obesity), RSV (respiratory syncytial virus), VEGF and
    its receptors (angiogenesis, AMD, diabetic retinopathy, cancer,
    kidney disease).

We were also issued a patent in the UK covering therapeutics
    comprised of chemically modified siRNAs. The claims of this
    patent broadly cover any chemical modification that can be made
    to the siRNA at 20% or more positions and are not limited to any
    specific type of chemical modification or structure.

In-Licensed
    Patents   

As part of our overall intellectual property strategy, we
    selectively enter into agreements with third parties, such as
    academic institutions, either to license pre-existing technology
    or to support the development of new products, technologies and
    business opportunities. For example, in 2003 we entered into a
    worldwide licensing agreement with the University of
    Massachusetts (UMASS) Medical School for its undivided interest
    in intellectual property relating to the seminal RNA
    interference technology covering siRNA (the  Tuschl
    Patent ) for uses relating to human and veterinary
    therapeutic, prophylactic, diagnostic and health care
    applications. The pending Tuschl Patent broadly covers siRNAs,
    including those with blunt ends and ends with 3 -overhangs.
    In 2003, we obtained a non-exclusive license to the early RNAi
    patents filed jointly by Carnegie Institution of Washington and
    UMASS (Carnegie Patent). The Carnegie Patent is based on the
    work of Drs. Andrew Fire and Craig Mello governing genetic
    inhibition of genes by double-stranded RNA via RNAi. In June
    2004, we entered into a worldwide exclusive license agreement
    with the University of Iowa Research Foundation for intellectual
    property relating to RNAi technology covering siRNA for
    targeting neurological disease indications, including
    Huntington s disease and Alzheimer s Disease. We were
    recently granted a patent in Australia for siRNAs targeting the
    Huntington s disease gene. In December 2004, we entered
    into a worldwide exclusive license agreement with Columbia
    University for intellectual property relating to genes involved
    in the hair growth pathway. This license includes rights to
    siRNAs targeting the  hairless  gene that can be used
    to inhibit hair growth. This intellectual property is based on
    pioneering work of Dr. Angela Christiano at Columbia
    University on identifying genes involved in promotion and
    inhibition of hair growth. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we
    also obtained the exclusive worldwide license to
    chemically-modified short interfering RNA from the University of
    Massachusetts, known as the Rana patents. This family of patents
    is complimentary to our existing chemical modification-related
    intellectual property portfolio. We believe that together, these
    patents are fundamental to the discovery, development and
    commercialization of RNAi-based therapeutics.

We believe that our intellectual property holdings adequately
    enable us to pursue our business plans. We cannot however
    guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future
    patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that such
    patents, if issued, will have scope sufficient to prevent
    competing products. We have been issued several broad patents on
    our RNAi technology in the United Kingdom and we expect these
    patents to issue in other European countries, the United States,
    Japan, and Canada. However, we cannot guarantee that such
    patents will issue outside the United Kingdom or that the claims
    of such patents will have the scope commensurate with those
    issued in the United Kingdom. In addition, the scope of our
    present or future patents may not be sufficiently broad to
    prevent competitive products. We intend, to the best of our
    ability, to defend our intellectual property estate from
    infringement. There is however inherent uncertainty in
    administrative proceedings and litigation relating to our
    patents that could cause us to incur substantial costs and
    delays in obtaining and enforcing our patents and other
    proprietary rights. The ultimate result of any patent litigation
    could be the loss of some or all protection for the patent
    involved. We may also decide to oppose or challenge third party
    patents.

When prudent and for appropriate consideration, we may
    out-license our intellectual property. The manufacture, use or
    sale of our products may infringe on the patent rights of
    others. We may not have identified all United States and foreign
    patents and patent applications that pose a risk of
    infringement. We may be forced to in-license or litigate if an
    intellectual property dispute arises.

We have filed opposition documents against three European
    patents granted to competitors that are related to RNA
    interference. Additionally, we have filed opposition documents
    against an RNA interference-related

12

Table of Contents   

Australian patent granted to a competitor. We are also involved
    in a re-examination proceeding involving one of our patents in
    the United States. We may not yet have identified all United
    States and foreign patents that pose a risk of infringement to
    our business operations. There can be no guarantee that we will
    prevail in any opposition or re-examination or other legal
    proceedings.

Our
    Collaborations  

Allergan   

In September 2005, we entered into a Strategic Alliance
    Agreement with Allergan. The agreement provides for a multi-year
    alliance with Allergan to develop Sirna-027, an RNAi-based
    therapeutic currently in Phase 1 for AMD, and to discover
    and develop other RNAi-based therapeutics against select gene
    targets in ophthalmic diseases. Pursuant to the agreement,
    Allergan will pay for all costs related to the continued
    development of Sirna-027. In October 2005, we received an
    upfront license fee of $5.0 million. In addition, we have
    the ability to receive contract manufacturing revenues, research
    funding, and will be eligible for development milestones of up
    to $245 million plus royalties on the worldwide sales of
    products resulting from the alliance.

Eli
    Lilly and Company   

In January 2004, we initiated a collaboration with Eli Lilly and
    Company (Lilly) to apply our RNAi technology against
    Lilly s proprietary models in oncology. Under the terms of
    the eighteen-month collaboration, Lilly provided oncology
    targets, preclinical  in vivo  models and research funding.
    We provided the RNAi expertise and a non-exclusive research
    license for our oncology technologies during the term of the
    collaboration. The goal was to establish a proof of concept that
    could lead to the development of novel RNAi therapies for
    oncology. We achieved the proof of concept milestone set forth
    under the collaboration agreement which resulted in a payment to
    us from Lilly of $1.8 million in July 2005.

Targeted
    Genetics   

In January 2005, we entered into a collaboration with Targeted
    Genetics Corporation to develop siRNAs targeting
    Huntington s disease gene using an adeno-associated virus
    (AAV) vector. Under the terms of the collaboration, Sirna and
    Targeted Genetics will share the costs and revenues associated
    with research and development of AAV-based siRNA product for the
    treatment of Huntington s disease. Jeremy L. Curnock Cook,
    a member of our Board of Directors and audit committee, is the
    Chairperson of the board of directors of Targeted Genetics.
    Mr. Cook assisted in the negotiations, but removed himself
    from the approval processes at both companies.

Protiva   

In February 2005, we entered into a Strategic Alliance Agreement
    with Protiva Biotherapeutics Inc. (Protiva) for delivery
    technology applicable to RNAi products. On February 27,
    2006, we filed a lawsuit against Protiva for breach of contract
    and making fraudulent claims and terminated the licenses granted
    to Protiva under our RNAi technology, including access to
    patents, for the development of RNAi-based therapeutics against
    an undisclosed target, which was the only target named by
    Protiva under the agreement. Under the terms of the alliance
    agreement, in the event of breach by Protiva, Sirna continues to
    maintain its license to Protiva s SNALP delivery technology
    to develop and commercialize RNAi-based therapeutics against
    certain undisclosed targets. Pursuant to the alliance agreement,
    Protiva received 155,763 shares of our common stock, valued
    at $488,000, and $500,000 in cash, both of which were placed
    into escrow pursuant to the terms of the agreement. In the third
    quarter of 2005, $574,000 was transferred back to us because
    certain conditions of the agreement were not met.

Protiva filed a counter action on March 28, 2006. Sirna
    believes that the counter action does not impact Sirna s
    ability to develop and commercialize any of its compounds. Sirna
    utilizes its own proprietary nanoparticle formulations for the
    delivery of its siRNAs.

13

Table of Contents   

Our
    Process Development and Pilot Manufacturing Activities  

Archemix
    Corporation   

In May 2001, we entered into a manufacturing agreement with
    Archemix Corporation (Archemix), a privately held company. One
    of Archemix s technologies,
    RiboReporters  tm  ,
    incorporates allosteric ribozymes. This technology allows
    researchers to detect individual molecules in complex mixtures,
    for drug discovery and environmental monitoring. Under the terms
    of the agreement with Archemix, we granted certain licenses and
    sublicenses to our intellectual property covering the allosteric
    ribozyme technology. We also received a license to
    Archemix s intellectual property covering allosteric
    ribozymes for use in molecular diagnostic applications. In
    exchange for the licenses, we received an equity position in
    Archemix. We currently own approximately 1.5% of the outstanding
    stock of Archemix on a fully-diluted basis.

In July 2004, we entered into an exclusive four-year process
    development, analytical development and manufacturing alliance
    for all of Archemix s cGMP aptamers through Phase 2a
    clinical development. As part of this agreement, we also granted
    Archemix a worldwide, perpetual, non-exclusive license to our
    intellectual property for the manufacture and commercialization
    of aptamers. In addition to payments for the manufacture of
    aptamers, we will receive certain downstream consideration for
    the license granted to Archemix. This agreement follows an
    October 2003 agreement between our companies that also provided
    for us to manufacture cGMP grade of Archemix s
    anti-thrombin aptamer, ARC183, for preclinical, Phase 1 and
    Phase 2a studies.

Our
    Competition  

We are engaged in the rapidly changing business of developing
    treatments for human disease through the regulation of gene
    expression. Competition among entities attempting to develop
    products to treat diseases by regulating gene expression is
    intense and is expected to increase. In addition to competitors
    in the regulation of gene expression field, there are other
    competitors using other technologies to target the same diseases
    that we are targeting.

We face direct competition from companies engaged in the
    research, development and commercialization of RNA
    interference-based technology, as well as competition from
    companies attempting other methods of gene expression control.
    We compete with large pharmaceutical companies and established
    biotechnology firms, many of whom are developing new products to
    treat the same diseases that we target. In some cases, those
    companies have already commenced clinical trials for their
    products. Many of these companies have significantly greater
    financial resources and expertise in research and development,
    manufacturing, preclinical studies and clinical trials,
    obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing than we do. Our
    collaborators and licensees may be conducting research and
    development programs using non-RNA interference technologies
    directed at the same diseases that we are targeting. Smaller
    companies may also prove to be significant competitors,
    particularly through collaborative arrangements with large
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In addition, our
    competitors may complete clinical trials, obtain required
    regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of their
    products before us, thus achieving a significant competitive
    advantage.

We are aware that a number of companies are pursuing research
    and development programs relating to the emerging area of RNA
    interference. A number of these companies have filed patent
    applications in the area of RNA interference. It is difficult to
    predict whether any of these companies will be successful in
    obtaining patent protection, whether the patent protection
    sought will address important aspects of the technology and, to
    what extent these companies will be successful in their RNA
    interference efforts.

Academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public
    and private research organizations also conduct research, seek
    patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for
    products and clinical development and marketing. These companies
    and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining
    highly qualified scientific and management personnel.

Government
    Regulation of our Drug Development Activities  

The development, manufacture and sale of therapeutics are
    subject to extensive regulation by United States and foreign
    governmental authorities. In particular, pharmaceutical products
    must undergo rigorous preclinical and

14

Table of Contents   

clinical testing and other approval requirements by the Food and
    Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States under the Federal
    Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Public Health Service Act
    and by comparable agencies in most foreign countries.

Before we may begin testing agents with potential therapeutic
    value in healthy human test subjects or patients, stringent
    government requirements for preclinical data must be satisfied.
    The data, obtained from studies in several animal species, as
    well as from laboratory studies, are submitted in an
    Investigational New Drug (IND) application or its equivalent in
    countries outside the United States where clinical studies are
    to be conducted. Preclinical data must provide an adequate basis
    for evaluating both the safety and the scientific rationale for
    the initiation of clinical trials.

Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential
    phases, although these phases may overlap. In Phase 1,
    which typically begins with initial introduction of the drug
    candidate into healthy human subjects prior to introduction into
    patients, the product is tested for safety, adverse affects,
    dosage, tolerance, absorption, metabolism, excretion and
    clinical pharmacology. Phase 2 typically involves studies
    in a small sample of the intended patient population to assess
    the efficacy of the compound for a specific indication to
    determine dose tolerance and the optimal dose range as well as
    to gather additional information relating to safety and
    potential adverse effects. Phase 3 trials are undertaken to
    further evaluate clinical safety and efficacy in an expanded
    patient population at geographically dispersed study sites to
    determine the overall risk-benefit ratio of the compound and to
    provide an adequate basis for product labeling. Each trial is
    conducted in accordance with certain standards under protocols
    that detail the objectives of the study, the parameters to be
    used to monitor safety and the efficacy criteria to be
    evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of
    the IND application.

Data from preclinical and clinical trials are submitted to the
    FDA as a New Drug Application, or NDA, for marketing approval
    and to other health authorities as a marketing authorization
    application. The process of completing clinical trials for a new
    drug is likely to take a number of years and requires the
    expenditure of substantial resources. Preparing an NDA or
    marketing authorization application involves considerable data
    collection, verification, analysis and expense. There can be no
    assurance that the FDA or any other health authority approval
    will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The approval
    process is affected by a number of factors, primarily the risks
    and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials as well as the
    severity of the disease and the availability of alternative
    treatments. The FDA or other health authorities may deny an NDA
    or marketing authorization application if the authority s
    regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional
    testing or information.

Even after initial FDA or other health authority approval has
    been obtained, further studies, including Phase IV
    post-marketing studies, may be required to provide additional
    data on safety and will be required to gain approval for the use
    of a product as a treatment for clinical indications other than
    those for which the product was initially tested. Also, the FDA
    or other regulatory authorities may require post-marketing
    reporting to monitor the side effects of the drug. Results of
    post-marketing programs may limit or expand the further
    marketing of the products. Further, if there are any
    modifications to the drug, including changes in indication,
    manufacturing process or labeling or a change in manufacturing
    facility, an application seeking approval of such changes will
    be required to be submitted to the FDA or other regulatory
    authority.

Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a
    product by regulatory authorities in foreign countries must be
    obtained prior to commencing commercial sales of the product in
    such countries. The requirements governing the conduct of
    clinical trials and product approvals vary widely from country
    to country, and the time required for approval may be longer or
    shorter than that required for FDA approval. Although there are
    some procedures for unified filings for certain European
    countries, in general, each country at this time has its own
    procedures and requirements. Further, the FDA regulates the
    export of products produced in the United States and may
    prohibit the export of such products even if they are approved
    for sale in other countries.

We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety
    and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic
    Substances Control Act, the Resources Conservation and Recovery
    Act and other present and potential future federal, state and
    local regulations. Completing the multitude of steps necessary
    before marketing can begin requires the expenditure of
    considerable resources and a lengthy period of time. Delay or
    failure in obtaining the required approvals, clearances or
    permits by us, our corporate partners or our licensees would
    have a

15

Table of Contents   

material adverse affect on our ability to generate sales or
    royalty revenue. The impact of new or changed laws or
    regulations cannot be predicted.

Our
    Manufacturing and Marketing  

To support our research, preclinical and clinical trial
    manufacturing requirements, we have constructed (in our leased
    buildings) manufacturing facilities that we believe comply with
    relevant regulatory requirements. We have expanded our quality
    control and quality assurance program internally, including
    adopting a set of standard operating procedures designed to
    assure that any products manufactured by or for us are made in
    accordance with GMP and other applicable domestic and foreign
    regulations. We believe that our existing facilities will be
    satisfactory for production of siRNAs needed for clinical trials
    up to Phase 3. However, we do not currently have the
    facilities or means to manufacture, market, distribute or sell
    on a commercial scale, any products that we may develop.

We expect to enter into distribution or partnership agreements
    with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies that have large,
    established sales organizations in order to market and sell most
    products we may develop, at least initially.

Our
    Employees  

As of December 31, 2005, we had 68 full-time
    employees, including a research and development staff of 54 and
    the balance in general administration. Our future performance
    depends significantly on the continued service of our key
    personnel. None of our employees are covered by collective
    bargaining arrangements. In April 2005, we initiated the move of
    our headquarters from Boulder, Colorado to San Francisco,
    California, which we expect to complete in 2006. We believe our
    employee relations are good.

ITEM 1A.    

RISK
    FACTORS   

Risks
    Relating to our Business, Industry and Common Stock  

We are
    a biotechnology company in the early stage of development and
    have only a limited operating history for you to review in
    evaluating our current business and its prospects.   

Our focus is directed towards RNAi technology, which is in an
    early stage of pre-clinical and clinical development and will
    require substantial further testing. There can be no assurance
    that our technologies will enable us to discover and develop
    therapeutic products.

All of our product candidates are in early stages of
    development, have never generated any sales, and will require
    extensive testing before commercialization. Our RNAi-based
    product candidates, which are the focus of our business, may
    require more than five years to bring to market, or may never
    reach the market. You must consider, based on our limited
    history, our ability to:

obtain the human and financial resources necessary to develop,
    test, manufacture and market products;

engage corporate partners to assist in developing, testing,
    manufacturing and marketing our products;

satisfy the requirements of clinical trial protocols, including
    patient enrollment;

establish and demonstrate the clinical efficacy and safety of
    our products;

obtain necessary regulatory approvals; and

market our products to achieve acceptance and use by the medical
    community in general.

We
    have a history of losses, expect future losses, have a
    continuing need to raise additional capital, and cannot assure
    you that we will ever become or remain profitable.   

We have incurred significant losses and have had negative cash
    flows from operations since inception. To date, we have
    dedicated most of our financial resources to research and
    development. We have financed our operations through sales of
    equity securities in public offerings, private placements of
    preferred and common stock, funds

16

Table of Contents   

received under our collaborative agreements and financing under
    equipment and tenant improvement loans. We anticipate that based
    on our existing financial resources and expected revenues from
    collaborations, our cash resources should be sufficient to meet
    our anticipated operating and capital requirements into 2007. We
    will need to raise additional capital through any or all of the
    following: public or private debt or equity financing, merger or
    acquisition, new collaborative relationships, new credit
    facilities
     and/or  other
    sources. If we raise funds by issuing and selling more stock,
    your ownership in us will be diluted. We may grant future
    investors rights superior to those of existing stockholders. In
    addition, we do not know if additional funding will be available
    or available on acceptable terms when needed.

As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was
    approximately $277.1 million. We expect to incur losses for
    at least the next several years because we plan to spend
    substantial amounts on research and development of our product
    candidates, including preclinical studies and clinical trials.

Because
    we must obtain regulatory approval to market our products in the
    United States and foreign jurisdictions, we cannot predict
    whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize our
    products.   

The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation
    by a wide range of authorities. We cannot predict whether
    regulatory clearance will be obtained for any product we
    develop. A pharmaceutical product cannot be marketed in the
    United States until it has completed rigorous preclinical
    testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory
    clearance process implemented by the Food and Drug
    Administration, the FDA. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements
    typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity
    and novelty of the product, and requires the expenditure of
    substantial resources. Of particular significance are the
    requirements covering research and development, testing,
    manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs
    for human use.

Before commencing clinical trials in human beings, we must
    submit and receive approval from the FDA for an investigational
    new drug, or IND. In addition to the FDA regulations, clinical
    trials are subject to oversight by institutional review boards
    at the universities or research institutions where we plan to
    carry out our clinical trials. The clinical trials:

must be conducted in conformity with the FDA s good
    laboratory practice regulations;

must meet requirements for institutional review board oversight;

must meet requirements for informed consent;

must meet requirements for good clinical practices;

are subject to continuing FDA oversight;

may require large numbers of test subjects; and

may be suspended by the FDA or us at any time if it is believed
    that the subjects participating in these trials are being
    exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds
    deficiencies in the IND or the conduct of these trials.

Before receiving FDA clearance to market a product, we must
    demonstrate that the product is safe and effective on the
    patient population that would be treated. Data obtained from
    preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying
    interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory
    clearances. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered
    based upon additional government regulation from future
    legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy
    during the period of product development, clinical trials and
    FDA regulatory review.

Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other applicable
    regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution,
    civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial
    suspension of production or injunction, as well as other
    regulatory action against our potential products or us.
    Additionally, we have limited experience in conducting and
    managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory
    approval.

If regulatory clearance for a product is granted, this clearance
    will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which
    the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe
    and efficacious. We cannot ensure

17

Table of Contents   

that any compound developed by us, alone or with others, will
    prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials and will
    meet all the applicable regulatory requirements needed to
    receive marketing clearance.

Outside the United States, our ability to market a product is
    contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the
    appropriate regulatory authorities. This foreign regulatory
    approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA
    clearance described above.

We may
    experience negative results, problems or delays in our clinical
    trials with Sirna-027, Sirna-034 or other product candidates
    that could adversely affect our stock price, financial position
    and our commercial prospects.   

We are required to do extensive testing in animal models with
    our product candidates before we can be approved by the FDA to
    initiate clinical trials in humans. Even so we cannot be sure
    that our product candidates will be safely tolerated by humans
    or be efficacious. Therefore, as our clinical trials progress we
    will closely monitor results for both safety and efficacy.
    Results from our early stage clinical trials are based on a
    limited number of patients and may, upon review, be revised or
    negated by authorities or by later stage clinical trials.
    Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early
    clinical trials have often not been predictive of results
    obtained in later clinical trials. A number of drug candidates
    have shown promising results in clinical trials, but
    subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy
    data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We recently
    announced positive interim Phase 1 clinical trial data for
    Sirna-027, our product candidate for the treatment of AMD, and
    preclinical efficacy data for Sirna-034 in a non-human primate
    model for the treatment of the Hepatitis C virus; however, such
    data may not be indicative of future results. Data obtained from
    preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying
    interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory
    approval. In addition, we may encounter regulatory delays or
    rejections as a result of many factors, including: changes in
    regulatory policy during the period of product development;
    delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a study;
    lack of efficacy during clinical trials; or unforeseen safety
    issues. Problems with our clinical trials may result in a
    decline in our stock price, the loss of existing corporate
    partners and future potential corporate partnership
    opportunities and an inability to raise capital when needed
    which would harm our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

To
    develop, market or sell RNAi-based drugs, we may need to find
    partners for collaboration.   

Engaging corporate partners and other third parties to help
    develop, manufacture and market our RNAi-based products may be
    desirable or necessary for our success. Generally, if a partner
    were to terminate its funding of the development of a particular
    product candidate from our collaboration, we may not have the
    right or resources to continue development of that product
    candidate on our own. Similarly, if we are unable to attract
    partners for particular product candidates, then we may be
    unable to develop those product candidates.

In addition, there are many aspects of our collaborations that
    have been and will continue to be outside of our control,
    including:

our ability to find and enter into agreements with appropriate
    collaborators for our RNAi-based product candidates;

the pace of development of our product candidates, including the
    achievement of performance milestones;

development by our collaborators of competing technologies or
    products;

exercise by our collaborators of marketing or manufacturing
    rights; and

the loss of our rights to products or the profits from our
    products if we are unable to fund our share of development costs.

We currently lack sales and marketing experience and may need to
    rely upon third parties to market our products which will result
    in a loss of control over the marketing process. These third
    parties, if engaged, may have significant control over important
    aspects of the commercialization of our products, including
    market identification, marketing methods, pricing, sales force
    recruitment and management and promotional activities. We may be
    unable to control the actions of these third parties. We may be
    unable to make or maintain arrangements with third parties to
    perform these activities on favorable terms.

18

Table of Contents   

Our strategic alliance with Allergan will seek to advance our
    AMD treatment into Phase 2 clinical trials. However, there
    can be no assurances that we will recognize additional revenue
    under the agreement, that the AMD or other ophthalmic treatment
    will result in an FDA-approved drug, or that we will be able to
    engage other partners.

A
    majority of our patent applications have not yet been approved.
    We do not know which of these applications will result in issued
    patents. Additionally, patent proceedings and litigation could
    result in substantial costs and delays in obtaining and
    enforcing our patent rights. The ultimate result of any patent
    litigation could be the loss of some or all protection for the
    patent involved or the loss of ability to pursue business
    opportunities. We may also decide to oppose or challenge third
    party patents.   

We have filed patent applications on various aspects of RNAi
    technology, a majority of which have not yet been approved. We
    cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or
    future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that
    such patents, if issued, will have scope sufficient to prevent
    competing products. In addition, the scope of our present or
    future patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent
    competitive products. We have received issuance of patents
    covering various aspects of basic RNA and other oligonucleotide
    technology, and we have filed patent applications for other
    technology improvements and modifications that have not yet been
    approved.

We are involved in a re-examination proceeding involving one of
    our patents in the United States that relates to
    oligonucleotides. Additionally, we have filed documents in
    opposition to three RNA interference-related European patents
    and one RNA-interference-related Australian patent granted to
    potential competitors.

Additionally, we cannot be certain that the patents and patent
    applications that we own or have licensed represent named
    inventors or assignees who were the first to invent or the first
    to file patent applications, or that those persons are proper
    assignees for these inventions.

The
    manufacture, use or sale of our products may infringe on the
    patent rights of others. We may not have identified all United
    States and foreign patents and patent applications that pose a
    risk of infringement. We may be forced to in-license or litigate
    if an intellectual property dispute arises.   

If we infringe or are alleged to have infringed another
    party s patent rights, we may be required to seek a
    license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity
    of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly, time
    consuming and unpredictable. We may not have sufficient
    resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In
    addition, if we do not obtain a license, do not successfully
    defend an infringement action, or are unable to have infringed
    patents declared invalid, we may:

incur substantial monetary damages;

encounter significant delays in marketing our products;

be unable to conduct or participate in the manufacture, use or
    sale of products or methods of treatment requiring licenses;

lose patent protection for our inventions and products; or

find our patents are unenforceable, invalid, or have a reduced
    scope of protection.

In addition, we regularly enter into agreements to license
    technologies and patent rights. Should we fail to comply with
    the terms of those license agreements, including payment of any
    required maintenance fees or royalties, or should the licensors
    fail to maintain their licensed interest in the licensed
    patents, we could lose the rights to those technologies and
    patents.

We are aware of a number of issued patents and patent
    applications that are owned by third parties and that purport to
    cover chemically modified oligonucleotides, including siRNAs, as
    well as their manufacture and use. We have investigated the
    breadth and validity of these patents to determine their impact
    upon our programs in the field of RNAi. Based on our review of
    these patents and, in some instances, the advice of outside
    patent counsel, we believe that our technology does not infringe
    any valid claims of such patents and that these patents are not
    likely to impede the advancement of our programs. There can be
    no assurance, however, that third parties will not assert

19

Table of Contents   

infringement claims against our programs with respect to these
    patents or otherwise, or that any such assertions will not
    result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to
    intellectual property rights of such parties. There can be no
    assurance that any such licenses would be available on terms
    acceptable to us, if at all. Parties making such claims may be
    able to obtain injunctive relief that could effectively block
    our ability to further develop or commercialize our products in
    the United States and abroad and could result in the award of
    substantial damages. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain
    any such license could substantially harm us. Litigation,
    regardless of outcome, could result in substantial cost to and a
    diversion of efforts by us.

Disclosure
    of our trade secrets could reduce our
    competitiveness.   

Because trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary
    information are critical to our business, we attempt to protect
    our trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements
    with third parties, employees and consultants. However, these
    agreements can be breached and, if they are, there may not be an
    adequate remedy available to us. In addition, third parties may
    independently discover trade secrets and proprietary
    information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be
    necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary
    rights.

We are
    moving our headquarters from Colorado to California, and this
    move could reduce employee retention and efficiency and could
    add to our expenses.   

In April 2005, we initiated the move of our headquarters from
    Boulder, Colorado to San Francisco, California, which we
    expect to complete in 2006. For the foreseeable future, our
    management and research and development operations will be based
    in the San Francisco Bay Area, while our manufacturing and
    other supporting operations continue to be based in Boulder,
    Colorado. This split location could reduce employee retention,
    morale, or efficiency or impair our focus. While we believe that
    our move to the Bay Area will facilitate recruiting top talent
    to the Company, some of our current Boulder, Colorado employees
    who may be required to relocate may be unwilling or unable to do
    so and we could lose talented personnel that are hard to
    replace. The cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area
    is substantially higher than in Boulder, Colorado, which could
    make retention of existing employees and recruiting of new
    employees more difficult.

It is possible that costs of additional facilities in California
    will be significantly higher than we estimate. The move could
    potentially add significantly to our real estate, payroll and
    other expenses.

Our
    success depends on attracting and retaining qualified
    personnel.   

We are highly dependant on qualified personnel in highly
    specialized technological fields. We also depend on academic
    collaborators for each of our research and development programs.
    The loss of any of our key employees or academic collaborators
    could delay our discovery research program and the development
    and commercialization of our product candidates or result in
    termination of them in their entirety. Our future success also
    will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract
    and retain other highly qualified scientific, technical and
    management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in
    clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization.
    We face competition for personnel from other companies,
    universities, public and private research institutions,
    government entities and other organizations. We also rely on
    consultants, collaborators and advisors to assist us in
    formulating and conducting our research. All of our consultants,
    collaborators and advisors are employed by other organizations
    or are self-employed and may have commitments to or consulting
    contracts with other entities that may limit their ability to
    contribute to our company.

Our
    operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake,
    power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist activity and
    other events beyond our control, which could result in a
    material adverse effect on our business.   

Businesses in California have, in the past, been subject to
    electrical blackouts as a result of a shortage of available
    electrical power. Future blackouts could disrupt the operations
    of our facilities. In addition, we do not carry sufficient
    business interruption insurance to compensate us for actual
    losses from interruption of our business that may occur, and any
    losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse
    effect on our business. We are vulnerable to a major earthquake
    and other natural calamities. Our California operations are
    located in a

20

Table of Contents   

seismically active region. We have not undertaken a systematic
    analysis of the potential consequences to our business and
    financial results from a major earthquake and do not have a
    recovery plan for fire, earthquake, power loss, terrorist
    activity or similar disasters. We are unable to predict the
    effects of any such event, but the effects could be seriously
    harmful to our business.

Our
    competitors may develop and market drugs that are more
    effective, safer, easier to use, or less expensive than our
    product candidates.   

The pharmaceutical market is highly competitive. Many
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have developed or are
    developing products that will compete with products we are
    developing. Multiple significant competitors are working on, or
    already marketing drugs, for the same indications as Sirna-027,
    Sirna-034, dermatology, diabetes, chronic hepatitis B,
    Huntington s disease, oncology and asthma. It is possible
    that our competitors will develop and market products that are
    more effective, safer, easier to use, or less expensive, than
    our future products, or will render our products obsolete. It is
    also possible that our competitors will commercialize competing
    products before any of our product candidates are approved and
    marketed. We expect that competition from pharmaceutical and
    biotechnology companies, universities and public and private
    research institutions will increase. Many of these competitors
    have substantially greater financial, technical, research and
    other resources than we do. We may not have the financial
    resources, technical and research expertise or marketing,
    distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully.

Our
    success may depend on third party reimbursement of
    patients  costs for our products that could result in price
    pressure or reduced demand for our products.   

Our ability to market products successfully will depend in part
    on the extent to which various third parties are willing to
    reimburse patients for the costs of our products and related
    treatments. These third parties include government authorities,
    private health insurers and other organizations, such as health
    maintenance organizations. Third party payors are increasingly
    challenging the prices charged for medical products and
    services. Accordingly, if less costly drugs are available, third
    party payors may not authorize or may limit reimbursement for
    our products, even if our products are safer or more effective
    than the alternatives. In addition, the trend toward managed
    healthcare and government insurance programs could result in
    lower prices and reduced demand for our products. Cost
    containment measures instituted by healthcare providers and any
    general healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our
    products and may have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot
    predict the effect of future legislation or regulation
    concerning the healthcare industry and third party coverage and
    reimbursement on our business.

We may
    in the future be exposed to product liability claims, which
    could adversely affect our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flow.   

Clinical trials or marketing of any of our potential products
    may expose us to liability claims resulting from the use of our
    products. These claims might be made by clinical trial
    participants and associated parties, consumers, health care
    providers or sellers of our products. We may not be able to
    maintain insurance or obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable
    cost, given the increasing cost of insurance in today s
    insurance market. Our inability to maintain insurance at an
    acceptable cost, or at all, could result in a breach of terms of
    our product license agreements or could prevent or inhibit the
    clinical testing or commercialization of our products or
    otherwise affect our financial condition. A claim, particularly
    resulting from a clinical trial or a product recall could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    financial condition and cash flow.

Our
    products require materials that may not be readily available or
    cost effective, which may reduce our competitiveness or reduce
    our profitability.   

The products we are developing are new chemical entities that
    are not yet available in commercial quantities. Raw materials
    necessary for the manufacture of our products may not be
    available in sufficient quantities or at a reasonable cost in
    the future. Therefore, our products may not be available at a
    reasonable cost in the future.

21

Table of Contents   

Our
    common stock has limited trading volume and a history of
    volatility, which could impair your investment.   

You may be unable to sell securities you purchase from us at the
    time or price desired. The market price of our common stock has
    fluctuated dramatically in recent years. The trading price of
    our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially due to:

our ability to raise additional funds;

clinical trials of products;

timing or denial by the FDA of clinical trial protocols or
    marketing applications;

changes in the status of our corporate collaborative agreements;

research activities, technological innovations or new products
    by us or our competitors;

developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary
    rights;

quarterly variations in our operating results;

changes in earnings estimates by market research analysts;

concentrated ownership interest of our investors;

purchases or sales of our stock by our executive officers,
    directors or substantial holders of our common stock;

securities class actions or other litigation; and

changes in government regulations.

These fluctuations are not necessarily related to our operating
    performance. Additionally, future sales of our equity securities
    may dilute our shareholders or cause our stock price to
    fluctuate. As a result, the value of your shares could vary
    significantly from time to time. The historical trading volume
    of our common stock has been limited.

We
    plan to use potential future operating losses and our federal
    and state net operating loss carryforwards to offset taxable
    income from operations. However, our ability to use our net
    operating loss carryforwards are limited as a result of previous
    issuances of equity securities and could be further limited as a
    result of potential future issuances of equity
    securities.   

We plan to use our current year operating losses to offset
    taxable income from operations or corporate collaborations. To
    the extent that our taxable income exceeds any current year
    operating losses, we plan to use our net operating loss
    carryforwards to offset income that would otherwise be taxable.
    The Tax Reform Act of 1986 contains provisions that limit the
    utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards
    if there has been a change of ownership, as described in
    Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Such a change of
    ownership may limit the utilization of our net operating loss
    and tax credit carryforwards, and could have been triggered by
    our initial public offering or by subsequent sales of securities
    by us or our shareholders. As a result of the private placement
    of equity securities with the Sprout Group, Venrock Associates,
    Oxford Bioscience Partners IV, TVM V Life Science Ventures
    GmbH & Co. KG and Granite Global Ventures in April
    2003, which we consider a change of ownership for tax purposes,
    we believe that there are substantial limitations on the
    utilization of our net operating loss and tax credit
    carryforwards. Also, our use of federal net operating loss
    carryforwards could be limited in the future depending upon the
    timing and amount of additional equity securities that we might
    potentially issue. Our state net operating loss carryforwards
    may be similarly limited.

Concentration
    of ownership of our common stock may give certain stockholders
    significant influence over our business.   

A small number of investors own a significant number of shares
    of our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, entities
    affiliated with Venrock Associates, The Sprout Group and Oxford
    Bioscience Partners, three of our

22

Table of Contents   

largest investors, collectively own approximately 44% of our
    outstanding common stock. Three of eight members of our Board of
    Directors are affiliated with these investors and serve on our
    audit committee, nominating and corporate governance committee
    and compensation committee. If the directors affiliated with
    these investors were to act in concert, they could exercise
    significant influence over the votes of the Board of Directors
    and the nominating and corporate governance committee, although
    they have not indicated any present intent to do so. If these
    investors were to act in concert, their concentration of stock
    ownership could allow them to exercise significant control over
    our strategic decisions and block, delay or substantially
    influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, such as
    the election of directors, amendment of our charter documents
    and approval of significant corporate transactions such as a
    merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets.

The interests of these investors may conflict with the interests
    of other holders of our common stock with regard to such
    matters. Furthermore, this concentration of ownership of our
    common stock could allow these shareholders to delay, deter or
    prevent a third party from acquiring control of us at a premium
    over the then-current market price of our common stock, which
    could result in a decrease in our stock price.

Both
    our charter documents and Delaware law have anti-takeover
    provisions that may discourage transactions involving actual or
    potential changes of control at premium prices.   

Our corporate documents and provisions of Delaware law
    applicable to us include provisions that discourage change of
    control transactions. For example, our charter documents
    authorize our board of directors to issue up to
    5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder
    approval and to set the rights, preferences and other
    designations of preferred stock, including the voting rights, at
    its discretion.

In addition, we are subject to provisions of Delaware General
    Corporation Law that may make some business combinations more
    difficult. As a result, transactions that otherwise could
    involve a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of
    our common stock may be discouraged or may be more difficult for
    us to effect as compared to companies organized in other
    jurisdictions.

Recent
    accounting pronouncements will impact our future results of
    operations.   

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or
    FASB, issued a revision of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123, or SFAS 123R, which requires all share-based
    payments to employees and directors, including grants of
    employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement
    based on their values. We expect to calculate the value of
    share-based payments under SFAS 123R on a basis
    substantially consistent with the fair value approach of
    SFAS 123. We will adopt SFAS 123R in our fiscal
    quarter beginning January 1, 2006, using the modified
    prospective method. We expect the adoption of SFAS 123R
    will have a material impact on our results of operations in that
    fiscal quarter and in each subsequent quarter, although it will
    have no impact on our overall liquidity. We cannot reasonably
    estimate the impact of adoption because it will depend on levels
    of share-based payments granted in the future as well as certain
    assumptions that can materially affect the calculation of the
    value of share-based payments to employees and directors.
    However, had we adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods, the
    impact of the standard would have approximated the impact of
    SFAS 123 as described in the disclosure of pro forma net
    loss and pro forma loss net per common share in  Note 1
    of Notes to Financial Statements  included under
    Item 15(a)(1) of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    The adoption of SFAS 123R may affect the way we compensate
    our employees or may cause other changes in the way we conduct
    our business.

ITEM 1B.    

UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS   

Not Applicable.

ITEM 2.    

PROPERTIES   

We recently entered into a lease agreement for laboratory and
    office space in a to-be constructed building in
    San Francisco, California. The target commencement date of
    the lease is November 15, 2006, with an initial term of
    84 months. We also lease interim office space in
    San Francisco, California under an operating lease that
    expires in March 2007 and laboratory and office space in South
    San Francisco, California under a short term operating
    lease. Additionally, we lease laboratory, manufacturing and
    office space in two adjacent buildings in Boulder, Colorado,

23

Table of Contents   

under operating leases that expire in June and October 2007. We
    have sublet a portion of our laboratory and office space in
    Boulder, Colorado in order to reduce operating expenses related
    to excess capacity. Our current and planned facilities are
    sufficient to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. The
    Company expects to substantially reduce lease expenses related
    to its Boulder, Colorado facilities as it transitions its
    headquarters and research and development operations to
    San Francisco, California.

ITEM 3.    

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS   

We do not have any material pending legal proceedings, other
    than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to
    which we are a party or of which any of our property is the
    subject. On February 27, 2006, we filed a lawsuit against
    Protiva Biotherapeutics in San Francisco, California for
    breach of contract and making fraudulent claims. Protiva filed a
    counter action on March 28, 2006. Sirna believes that the
    counter action does not impact Sirna s ability to develop
    and commercialize any of its compounds. Sirna utilizes its own
    proprietary nanoparticle formulations for the delivery of its
    siRNAs.

ITEM 4.    

SUBMISSION
    OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

Not applicable.

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Our executive officers, who are elected by and serve at the
    discretion of the Board of Directors, are as follows (all ages
    are as of March 31, 2006):

Name  

Age  

Position  

Howard W. Robin

53

Chief Executive Officer, President
    and Director

Bharat M.
    Chowrira, Ph.D., J.D. 

40

Chief Patent Counsel, Vice
    President, Legal Affairs, and Corporate Secretary

J. Michael French

46

Senior Vice President for
    Corporate Development

Roberto
    Guerciolini, M.D. 

52

Chief Medical Officer and Senior
    Vice President

Barry Polisky, Ph.D. 

60

Chief Scientific Officer and
    Senior Vice President

Gregory L. Weaver

50

Chief Financial Officer and Senior
    Vice President (Appointed February 2006)

Howard W. Robin  has served as Chief Executive Officer,
    President and Director since July 2001. From January 2001 to
    June 2001, Mr. Robin was Chief Operating Officer, President
    and Director. From 1991 to 2001, Mr. Robin was Corporate
    Vice President and General Manager at Berlex Laboratories, Inc.,
    a subsidiary of Schering, AG, and from 1987 to 1991 he served as
    Vice President of Finance and Business Development and Chief
    Financial Officer. From 1984 to 1987, Mr. Robin was
    Director of Business Planning and Development at Berlex. He was
    a Senior Associate with Arthur Andersen & Co. prior to
    joining Berlex. Since February 2006, Mr. Robin has served
    as a member of the Board of Directors of Acologix. He received
    his BS in Accounting and Finance from Farleigh Dickinson
    University in 1974.

Bharat M. Chowrira, Ph.D., J.D.  has served as
    Chief Patent Counsel and Vice President, Legal Affairs since
    January 2005. From January 2002 until December 2004,
    Dr. Chowrira was Vice President of Legal Affairs, Licensing
    and Patent Counsel. Dr. Chowrira joined Sirna Therapeutics
    in 1993 as a scientist. He is responsible for Sirna Therapeutics
    legal and business licensing activities and general corporate
    matters. Dr. Chowrira also serves as the corporate
    secretary. Dr. Chowrira has been responsible for building
    and maintaining our intellectual property portfolio and
    strategic alliance initiatives. Dr. Chowrira received his
    J.D. degree from the College of Law at the University of Denver
    and holds a Ph.D. in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics from
    the University of Vermont. Dr. Chowrira is a registered
    patent attorney and a member of the Colorado Bar Association,
    American Intellectual Property Law Association, Licensing
    Executive Society and the Association of Corporate Counsel.

J. Michael French  has served as Senior Vice
    President for Corporate Development since July 2005.
    Mr. French brings fifteen years of international business
    experience in both the pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    industries

24

Table of Contents   

most recently as Chief Business Officer at Entelos, Inc. from
    2000 to 2005. At Entelos, Mr. French was primarily
    responsible for business development, alliance management and
    corporate communication activities helping to expand
    Entelos  business from technology-based research
    partnerships to therapeutic focused co-development
    collaborations. From 1998 to 2000, he developed global strategic
    alliances for Farma Biagini S.p.A., successfully launched
    Kogenate   
    for Bayer AG., and served as the Senior Medical Intelligence
    Analyst during Operation Desert Storm. Mr. French holds a
    B.S. in aerospace engineering from the U.S. Military
    Academy at West Point and a M.S. in physiology and biophysics
    from Georgetown University.

Roberto Guerciolini, M.D. , has served as Chief
    Medical Officer and Senior Vice President of Development since
    April 2004. Prior to joining Sirna Therapeutics,
    Dr. Guerciolini served as the Senior Director of Clinical
    Pharmacology and Experimental Medicine at Millennium
    Pharmaceuticals between 2001 and 2004, where he was responsible
    for overseeing the conduct of early-stage clinical trials in the
    areas of inflammation and metabolic diseases. He also
    contributed significantly towards the successful filing of the
    NDA for
    VELCADE   ,
    a treatment for multiple myeloma. From 1991 to 2001, he served
    as Director, Medical Research at Roche Global Development and
    Director, Clinical Pharmacodynamics/International Clinical
    Research at Hoffmann-La Roche, with responsibilities for
    Phase I clinical studies in a number of therapeutic areas.
    He also played an important role in the filing and registration
    of
    XENICAL   
    in the U.S. and Europe for the treatment of obesity. Previously,
    he was Associate Director of clinical pharmacology at
    Schering-Plough Corporation between 1989 and 1991.
    Dr. Guerciolini has presented major clinical research
    findings at the leading health science conferences and has
    authored or co-authored 40 articles in peer-reviewed journals.
    He received his medical degree and his specialty in Internal
    Medicine from the University of Perugia Medical School in Italy
    and completed his postdoctoral fellowship in clinical
    pharmacology at the Mayo Clinic. Dr. Guerciolini is also
    certified by the American Board of Clinical Pharmacology. In
    addition to his medical training, Dr. Guerciolini received
    his Executive MBA degree from the Haas School of Business,
    University of California-Berkeley.

Barry Polisky, Ph.D. , has served as Chief Scientific
    Officer and Senior Vice President since March 2005. From
    December 2003 to February 2005, Dr. Polisky was Senior Vice
    President of Research. Dr Polisky joined Sirna Therapeutics in
    June 2002 as Vice President of Research. Prior to joining Sirna
    Therapeutics, Dr. Polisky served as Vice-President of
    Research at ThermoBiostar, Inc. between 1999 and 2002 where he
    developed a non-instrumented SNP detection diagnostic platform.
    From 1992 to 1998, Dr. Polisky was Vice President of
    Research and Drug Discovery at NeXstar, Inc. where he directed
    discovery and development of many aptamers (nucleic acid-based
    therapeutic agents including Macugen, currently used in the
    treatment of wet adult macular degeneration). Prior to joining
    NeXstar, Dr. Polisky was Professor and Chairman of the
    Molecular Biology program at Indiana University, Bloomington
    from 1987 to 1992. Dr. Polisky received his Ph.D. in
    molecular biology from the University of Colorado and conducted
    post-doctoral work in the Department of Biochemistry and
    Biophysics, University of California, San Francisco.

Gregory L. Weaver  was appointed Chief Financial Officer
    and Senior Vice President in February 2006. Prior to joining
    Sirna Therapeutics, Mr. Weaver served as Chief Financial
    Officer at a number of biotechnology companies including Nastech
    Pharmaceutical Company from 2002 to 2005, ILEX Oncology from
    1999 to 2002 and Prism Technologies from 1996 to 1998. Before
    moving to the biotechnology industry, Mr. Weaver was in the
    media publishing industry, serving as a Chief Financial Officer
    at Fidelity Capital from 1992 to 1995 and in various financial
    management roles with
     Harte-Hanks 
    from 1987 to 1990. He was an auditor with Arthur
    Andersen & Co. from 1983 to 1987. Mr. Weaver
    serves on the Board of Directors and as the Chairman of the
    Audit Committee of Celsion Corporation. Mr. Weaver received
    his B.S. degree from Trinity University in San Antonio,
    Texas and his M.B.A. from the Boston College Graduate School of
    Management. Mr. Weaver is a Certified Public Accountant.

25

Table of Contents   

Scientific
    Advisory Board  

We have established a Scientific Advisory Board that includes
    world renowned scientists with deep insight into the etiology of
    important human diseases. As of March 14, 2006, the board
    consisted of the following eleven individuals:

Name  

Scientific Position  

Keith Yamamoto, Ph.D.
     (Chairperson) 

Executive Vice Dean for Research,
    University of California, San Francisco School of Medicine

Jeffrey A. Bluestone, Ph.D.

A.W. and Mary Margaret Clausen
    Distinguished Professor of Medicine, Pathology,
    Microbiology & Immunology, University of California,
    San Francisco (UCSF)

Director, UCSF Diabetes Center,
    the Immune Tolerance Network and the Juvenile Diabetes Research
    Foundation Collaborative Center for Cellular Therapy

Beverly Davidson, Ph.D.

Roy J. Carver Professor in
    Internal Medicine and Professor in Neurology,
    Physiology & Biophysics, University of Iowa

Donald Ganem, M.D.

Professor, Microbiology/Immunology
    and Medicine, University of California, San Francisco

Howard Hughes Medical Institute
    Investigator

Joe W. Gray, Ph.D.

Associate Laboratory Director for
    Life and Environmental Sciences and Director of Life Sciences
    Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory 
     
    Adjunct Professor of Laboratory Medicine, University of
    California, San Francisco

Stanley M. Lemon, M.D.

Director, Institute for Human
    Infections and Immunity Professor, Departments of
    Microbiology & Immunology and Internal Medicine,
    University of Texas Medical Branch

Richard Locksley, M.D.

Herbert and Marion Sandler
    Distinguished Professorship in Asthma Research, Professor of
    Medicine and Microbiology/Immunology, University of California,
    San Francisco

Howard Hughes Medical Institute
    Investigator

Jerrold M. Olefsky, M.D.

Professor of Medicine and
    Co-Chair, Division of Endocrinology & Metabolism,
    University of California, San Diego

David W. Russell, Ph.D.

Eugene McDermott Distinguished
    Chair in Molecular Genetics, University of Texas Southwestern

Xiaodong Wang, Ph.D.

George L. MacGregor Distinguished
    Chair in Biomedical Science, University of Texas Southwestern
    Medical School

Howard Hughes Medical Institute
    Investigator

James A. Wells, Ph.D.

Harry Wm. and Diana V. Hind
    Professorship in Pharmaceutical Sciences and Professor of
    Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Cellular and Molecular
    Pharmacology, University of California, San Francisco

PART II  

ITEM 5.    

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
    MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under
    the symbol  RNAI.  The last sale price of the common
    stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market on
    March 15, 2006, was $7.02 per share. On March 15,
    2006, there were 186 holders of record of our common stock. The
    following table sets forth, for the

26

Table of Contents   

periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of
    our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market.

Dividend
    Policy  

We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common
    stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the
    foreseeable future.

Purchases
    of Equity Securities  

Not applicable.

Recent
    Sales of Unregistered Securities  

Not applicable.

27

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6.    

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA   

The following selected financial information has been derived
    from our audited financial statements. The information set forth
    below is not necessarily indicative of results of future
    operations, and should be read in conjunction with
     Item 7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   and
    the financial statements and related notes thereto included in
    Item 15(a)(1) of this
     Form 10-K 
    in order to fully understand factors that may affect the
    comparability of the information presented below.

28

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7.    

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS   

Statements in this Item contain forward-looking statements
    within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
    1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934, as amended and the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give our current
    expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify
    these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
    historical or current events. Forward-looking statements use
    words such as  anticipate,   estimate, 
     expect,   will,   may, 
     intend,   plan,   believe  and
    similar expressions in connection with discussion of future
    operating or financial performance. The forward-looking
    statements include statements relating to future actions,
    prospective products and product approvals, future performance
    or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts,
    expenses and financial results. For example there is a very
    significant risk that promising pre-clinical or clinical results
    may not translate into an FDA-approved drug. In addition, patent
    applications may not result in issued patents, and issued
    patents may not be enforceable or could be invalidated.
    Furthermore, our ability to develop products and to operate as a
    going concern is contingent upon having readily available cash
    to fund our operating programs and are subject to the escalating
    expenses and risks associated with the initiation of clinical
    trials and their potential outcomes. Other risks and
    uncertainties include, among others, our early stage of
    development and short operating history, our history and
    expectation of losses and need to raise capital, our need to
    obtain clinical validation and regulatory approval for
    Sirna-027, Sirna-034 and our other product candidates, any of
    which could have negative results, our need to engage
    collaborators, our need to obtain and protect intellectual
    property, and the risk of third-party patent infringement
    claims. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future
    performance and they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions
    or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results
    may differ materially from those projected in the
    forward-looking statements as a result of various factors,
    including, without limitation, those listed under Item 1A,
     Risk Factors  included herein. Except to fulfill our
    obligations under the federal securities laws, we undertake no
    obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect
    events or circumstances after the date on which it is made. 

We begin Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) with the
    company s business overview to give you an understanding of
    the technology of our business and the direction in which our
    business and our product candidates are moving. This is followed
    by a discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates that we
    believe are important to understanding the assumptions and
    judgments incorporated in our reported financial results,
    followed by a discussion of our Results of Operations. We then
    provide an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash
    flows, and discuss our financial commitments in the section
    entitled  Liquidity and Capital Resources .

This MD&A should be read in conjunction with the other
    sections of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    including Item 1,  Business,  Item 6,
     Selected Financial Data,  and Item 8,
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  This
    MD&A and various other sections of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    contain a number of forward-looking statements, all of which are
    based on our current expectations and could be affected by the
    uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this filing.
    Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the
    forward-looking statements as a result of various factors,
    including those described under  Risk Factors 
    included under Item 1A. Except to fulfill our obligations
    under the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to
    update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or
    circumstances after the date on which it is made.

Business
    Overview  

Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. ( Sirna  or the
     Company ) is focused on developing therapeutics based
    on RNA interference (RNAi). We are using our expertise in
    nucleic acids to design, stabilize, manufacture and deliver
    short interfering nucleic acids (siRNAs) that selectively
    activate the process of RNA interference. We are in research,
    preclinical
     and/or 
    clinical development with product candidates in the following
    areas: Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD), chronic
    hepatitis, dermatology (initially permanent hair removal),
    asthma, Huntington s disease (HD) and diabetes. We are also
    evaluating other disease targets and indications for the
    development of RNA interference-based therapeutics on our own
    and in collaboration with academic research institutions and
    commercial enterprises such as our collaboration in AMD with
    Allergan, Inc. (Allergan) and our collaboration in

29

Table of Contents   

Huntington s Disease with Targeted Genetics. In addition,
    Sirna manufactures and sells cGMP grade oligonucleotides to
    third parties under contract manufacturing agreements.

Since our inception as Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 1992,
    we have dedicated ourselves to engineering RNA-based molecules
    for therapeutic and diagnostic purposes. In 2001 we began to
    study RNAi in greater detail and in 2003, based on scientific
    advancements and the potential of the field, we directed our
    research and development activities entirely to RNAi technology.
    Concurrent with our redirection, we changed our name to Sirna
    Therapeutics, Inc. We believe siRNA-based drugs may present an
    entirely new platform of therapeutics in the future. Our
    expertise in nucleic acid technology enables us to be a leader
    in this very promising field.

RNA
    Interference  

RNA interference is an endogenous mechanism that generally
    relies on a sequence of double-stranded nucleic acid capable of
    reducing the expression of genes through the degradation of
    messenger RNA (mRNA) and viral RNA in a sequence-specific
    manner. We refer to such RNA molecules facilitating this process
    of RNAi as a short interfering RNA (siRNA). The RNAi mechanism
    induces the destruction of target RNA using naturally occurring
    cellular protein machinery.

Harnessing the natural phenomenon of RNAi through the production
    and targeted delivery of synthetic siRNAs holds potential for a
    new and important future class of drugs. Although there is
    widespread use of RNAi-based reagents for target validation, the
    development of RNAi-based pharmaceuticals for therapeutic uses
    to target disease is currently in an early stage of clinical and
    preclinical development.

Product
    Candidate Programs  

We are seeking to develop a new class of drugs using siRNAs that
    address significant and unmet medical needs. Currently, we are
    in research, preclinical and clinical development with product
    candidates in the following areas:

Local
    Delivery (Directly to target area)  

Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD).   Our
    first program to advance into the clinic targets age-related
    macular degeneration (AMD). In November 2004, we initiated a
    Phase 1 clinical trial of Sirna-027, a chemically modified
    siRNA targeting Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-1
    (VEGFR-1), which is a key component of the clinically validated
    vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathway. In May 2005
    and October 2005, we reported interim data from the Phase 1
    clinical trial with Sirna-027. In September 2005, we entered
    into a strategic alliance with Allergan for the development of
    Sirna-027 and other siRNAs for the treatment of ocular disease.
    We anticipate that Allergan will begin Phase 2 studies with
    Sirna-027 in 2006.

Asthma.   We are in the preclinical stage of
    development of product candidates for the treatment of asthma.
    We are working internally and with our collaborator,
    Dr. Erwin Gelfand of the National Jewish Medical &
    Research Center, to evaluate siRNAs that target IL-4, IL-4
    receptor, IL-13
     and/or  IL-13
    receptor and a host of other respiratory targets. Further, we
    have demonstrated in animal models of respiratory disease a
    significant reduction of airway inflammation and
    hyper-responsiveness using chemically stabilized nanoparticle
    formulated siRNAs.

Huntington s Disease.   Our third program
    in local delivery is focused on Huntington s disease, a
    life-threatening brain disorder. We are in the preclinical stage
    of development in this program and expect to name a development
    candidate by the end of 2006. We recently entered into a
    collaboration with Targeted Genetics Corporation for the
    development of adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector-based
    delivery of siRNAs that target the Huntington s disease
    gene. We are also collaborating with Dr. Beverly Davidson
    at the University of Iowa, who has published promising data in
    this area and Dr. Krystof Bankiewicz, at the University of
    California in San Francisco, who has developed promising
    systems for the direct administration of AAV vectors to the
    brain.

30

Table of Contents   

Systemic
    Delivery (Directly into the blood stream)  

Chronic Hepatitis.   We are in the preclinical
    stages of development of siRNAs that target the viral RNA to
    treat the Hepatitis C infection. On December 21, 2005,
    Sirna announced the selection of our HCV product candidate,
    Sirna-034. After successful preclinical testing in rodents and
    non-human primates, we have demonstrated that a systemically
    delivered chemically optimized siRNA compound can dramatically
    suppress Hepatitis C viral titers via an RNA interference
    mechanism. Our compound, Sirna-034 is a systemically
    administered nanoparticle-formulated, chemically optimized
    siRNA-based therapeutic targeting the Hepatitis C virus. We
    expect to file an IND for this product candidate later in 2006.

Type II Diabetes.   We are in the preclinical
    stages of developing siRNA targeting the phosphatase 1B
     (PTP-1B) 
    gene, a target in diabetes that is associated with insulin
    resistance. The technology pioneered in our HCV and HBV programs
    to efficiently deliver chemically stabilized siRNAs to the liver
    now enables us to address other liver associated disease
    indications such as diabetes. By approaching Type II
    Diabetes early in the mechanistic cascade, we believe siRNAs can
    become the most important innovation in the treatment of this
    devastating and rapidly growing disease.

Topical
    Delivery (Directly to the surface of the skin)  

Dermatology.   In December 2004, we launched a
    dermatology division following the acquisition of Skinetics
    Biosciences. Skinetics founder, and a leader in the field of
    hair biology, Dr. Angela Christiano of Columbia University,
    is now an exclusive consultant to the Company. Our first
    dermatology program is focused on the permanent removal of
    unwanted hair. We have developed specific topical formulations
    that deliver siRNAs efficiently to hair follicles. We have
    successfully administered chemically modified siRNAs into
    individual hair follicles on the surface of skin and
    demonstrated efficacy in an animal model of hair removal via
    topical administration of siRNAs. We are in the preclinical
    stages of developing siRNA targeting the  hairless 
    protein and expect to select a clinical candidate in 2006 and
    file an IND in 2007.

Intellectual
    Property  

Obtaining patent protection as well as protecting patent rights
    and other proprietary rights is crucial to our business. In
    addition to patents, we rely upon trade secrets, know-how and
    continuing technological innovations in the design, synthesis,
    and purification of nucleic acid molecules, such as RNA and in
    nucleic acid chemistry. We also rely on licensing opportunities
    to develop and maintain our competitive position. It is our
    policy to file patent applications when appropriate to protect
    technology, inventions and improvements that we believe are
    important in the development of our business.

We have filed patents on our internal research and have
    in-licensed patents from third parties, such as academic
    institutions. Altogether, we have over 50 issued patents in the
    U.S. and abroad and over 250 pending patent applications. As
    part of our overall intellectual property strategy, we
    selectively enter into agreements with third parties, such as
    academic institutions, either to license pre-existing technology
    or to support the development of new products, technologies and
    business opportunities.

Our internal scientific work has resulted in over 50 issued
    patents and over 225 patent applications. Over the past year we
    were issued six broad patents in the UK, one in Australia and
    three in the U.S. In January of 2006, the United States
    Patent and Trademark Office granted us a patent for the chemical
    synthesis and manufacturing of RNA. The patent broadly covers a
    process for the synthesis, deprotection and purification of
    nucleic acids with one or more ribonucleotides. We believe this
    process is critical for the efficient synthesis of RNA at high
    yields and high purity and is applicable to both small- and
    large-scale production of oligonucleotides such as siRNAs and
    aptamers.

We believe that our intellectual property holdings adequately
    enable us to pursue our business plans. We cannot however
    guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future
    patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that such
    patents, if issued, will have scope sufficient to prevent
    competing products. We have been issued several broad patents on
    our RNAi technology in the United Kingdom and we expect these
    patents to issue in other European countries, the United States,
    Japan, and Canada. However, we cannot guarantee that such
    patents will issue outside the United Kingdom or that the claims
    of such patents will have the scope commensurate with

31

Table of Contents   

those issued in the United Kingdom or Australia. In addition,
    the scope of our present or future patents may not be
    sufficiently broad to prevent competitive products. We intend,
    to the best of our ability, to defend our intellectual property
    estate from infringement. There is however inherent uncertainty
    in administrative proceedings and litigation relating to our
    patents that could cause us to incur substantial costs and
    delays in obtaining and enforcing our patents and other
    proprietary rights. The ultimate result of any patent litigation
    could be the loss of some or all protection for the patent
    involved. We may also decide to oppose or challenge third party
    patents.

Licensing,
    Process Development and Pilot Manufacturing  

In addition to our work with RNAi, we have also developed an
    extensive expertise in nucleic acid technologies. We intend to
    leverage our nucleic acid expertise through licensing, process
    development and pilot manufacturing opportunities. In July 2004,
    we entered into an exclusive four-year process development and
    manufacturing alliance with Archemix Corporation (Archemix), a
    privately held company. Archemix is currently developing ARC183,
    an anti-thrombin aptamer. Pursuant to the agreement, we will
    manufacture all of Archemix s aptamers through
    Phase 2a clinical development. In addition, in 2003 we
    completed a collaboration with Geron Corporation, a
    biopharmaceutical company focused on oncology and regenerative
    medicine. Our first program, which began in 2001, was a process
    development collaboration with Geron for GRN163, a nucleic
    acid-based telomerase agonist for cancer. We successfully
    completed the program and renewed the agreement to manufacture
    GMP clinical-grade GRN163 for Geron s Phase 1 clinical
    study. Delivery under the agreement was completed in June 2003.

Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our
    accounting policies may have an impact on the results we report
    in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies
    require us to make subjective judgments, often as a result of
    the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently
    uncertain.

Revenue
    Recognition  

Revenues are derived principally from upfront payments, cost
    reimbursements, milestone payments and contract manufacturing
    services. We generally recognize revenue when we have satisfied
    all contractual obligations and we are reasonably assured of
    collecting the resulting receivable. Given the nature of our
    business and the infrastructure that we need to support, we
    often enter into collaborations where we receive nonrefundable
    up-front payments. We recognize revenue related to up-front
    payments ratably over the period of the contractual arrangements
    as we satisfy our performance obligations, unless we determine
    that another methodology is more appropriate. Occasionally, we
    are required to estimate the period of a contractual arrangement
    or our performance obligation when the information is not
    clearly defined in the agreements we enter into. Should
    different estimates prevail, revenue recognized could be
    different. As of December 31, 2005, we evaluated our
    estimates for the periods of contractual arrangements and
    determined that our estimates were appropriate.

Patent
    Expenses  

Due to the early stage of development of RNAi technology, we
    expense all legal costs directly incurred in connection with
    patent applications or patents until we determine that the
    estimated recoverability of such costs is sufficiently probable,
    at which time such costs are capitalized. If capitalized, such
    deferred patent costs are then amortized over the estimated
    economic life of the patent on a straight-line basis. We review
    all capitalized patent costs on a quarterly basis and, if we
    decide to abandon a patent or a patent application or determine
    that an issued patent or a patent application no longer has
    significant economic value, the unamortized balance in deferred
    patent costs related to that patent or patent application is
    immediately expensed.

Recently
    Issued Financial Accounting Standards  

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or
    FASB, issued a revision of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123, or SFAS 123R, which requires all share-based
    payments to employees and directors, including grants of
    employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement
    based on their values. We expect to calculate the value of
    share-based payments under SFAS 123R on a basis
    substantially

32

Table of Contents   

consistent with the fair value approach of SFAS 123. We
    will adopt SFAS 123R in our fiscal quarter beginning
    January 1, 2006, using the modified prospective method. We
    expect the adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material
    impact on our results of operations in that fiscal quarter and
    in each subsequent quarter, although it will have no impact on
    our overall liquidity. We cannot reasonably estimate the impact
    of adoption because it will depend on levels of share-based
    payments granted in the future as well as certain assumptions
    that can materially affect the calculation of the value of
    share-based payments to employees and directors. However, had we
    adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods, the impact of the
    standard would have approximated the impact of SFAS 123 as
    described in the disclosure of pro forma net loss and pro forma
    net loss per common share in  Note 1 of Notes to
    Financial Statements  included under Item 15(a)(1) of
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Results
    of Operations for Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2005,
    2004 and 2003  

Revenues  

The following table sets forth information on revenues earned
    from our collaborations for the periods indicated (in thousands):

Revenue fluctuations generally result from changes in the number
    of funded research projects as well as the timing and completion
    of contractual obligations. Our revenues for 2005 were
    $4.9 million, an increase of $3.4 million compared to
    2004. The increase is a result of our increased production of
    aptamers and process development work related to our contract
    manufacturing agreement with Archemix, as well as a milestone
    payment we received from Lilly related to our eighteen-month
    collaboration to jointly investigate our proprietary modified
    siRNAs against specific oncology targets they provided. Upon the
    completion of activities and achievement of milestones set forth
    in the research plan under the Lilly contract, a milestone
    payment of $1.8 million was paid to us in July 2005.

In September, 2005, we entered into an agreement with Allergan
    to develop Sirna-027 and other RNAi-based therapeutics for
    ophthalmic diseases. Subsequently, in October, we received a
    $5.0 million upfront license payment from Allergan that was
    initially classified as deferred revenue. We are recognizing the
    $5.0 million ratably over the related three year contract
    period. We are actively pursuing additional partnerships and
    collaborations to fund and advance our research and development
    programs.

Our revenues for 2004 were $1.5 million, a decrease of
    $2.6 million compared to 2003. The decrease was primarily a
    result of our change in business strategy in 2003 and the
    subsequent termination of ribozyme-related programs and
    associated revenues from Chiron, Fujirebio and atugen AG.
    Offsetting our loss in revenues in the ribozyme programs were
    revenues related to our Archemix manufacturing collaboration.
    Archemix revenues were $0.9 million in 2004. In connection
    with the completion of our process development and manufacturing
     scale-up  for
    Geron s anti-cancer drug, GRN163, we recognized revenue of
    $2.8 million in 2003.

33

Table of Contents   

Expenses  

Research
    and development  

The following table sets forth information on research and
    development expenses for the periods indicated (in thousands):

Our research and development expenses during 2005 were
    $20.1 million, a decrease of $1.0 million compared to
    2004. License fees decreased $1.3 million due primarily to
    one time payments we made to the University of Massachusetts
    related to the filing of our first IND for Sirna-027 in
    September 2004. Other expenses decreased $1.1 million due
    in part to savings associated with a work force reduction in May
    2005. Salaries and benefits increased $0.3 million
    primarily due to severance and benefit payments related to the
    work force reduction. Outside services increased
    $1.0 million due to the
     scale-up  of
    our research and development expenses for Sirna-027, our RNAi
    drug candidate targeting Age-related Macular Degeneration.

Our research and development expenses for 2004 were
    $21.1 million, a decrease of $1.1 million compared to
    2003. The decrease was primarily due to the acquisition of a
    license for the University of Massachusetts  rights to RNAi
    technology for $6.0 million in September 2003. Under the
    terms of the license agreement, we paid $3.0 million in
    cash and issued 579,150 shares of our common stock, at the
    time valued at $3.0 million, to the University of
    Massachusetts Medical School in exchange for the license. The
    purchase price was expensed due to the uncertainty as of the
    acquisition date of both the technological feasibility and
    alternative future uses of the technology. In 2004, upon the
    first anniversary of the license agreement, the filing of our
    first IND and the initiation of our first Phase 1 clinical
    trial, we paid $1.4 million to the University of
    Massachusetts Medical School. Additionally, research and
    development expenses increased overall in 2004 due to the scale
    up of our research and outside services costs as we progressed
    in our preclinical activities for Sirna-027, as well as general
    overall
     scale-up  of
    research activities focused on RNAi technology.

We have incurred the following expenses, net of partner
    reimbursements, related to our major research and development
    projects (in thousands):

34

Table of Contents   

Research and development project costs include costs of
    salaries, benefits, clinical trial site costs, outside services,
    and materials and supplies incurred to support the clinical
    programs. Indirect costs allocated to projects include facility
    and occupancy costs, intellectual property-related expenses,
    including patent prosecution and maintenance, and license and
    royalty payments. For purposes of project tracking, we capture
    the level of effort expended on a project through our project
    management system, which is based primarily on human resource
    time allocated to each project, supplemented by an allocation of
    indirect costs and other specifically identifiable costs, if
    any. As a result, the costs we allocate to a project are not
    intended to, and do not necessarily, reflect the precise actual
    incremental costs of the project.

General
    and administrative  

The following table sets forth information on general and
    administrative expenses for the periods indicated (in thousands):

General and administrative expenses during 2005 were
    $7.6 million, an increase of $0.9 million compared to
    2004. The increase compared to 2004 is primarily due to a higher
    average number of employees during 2005 and associated increases
    in travel and recruiting, and also to additional consulting
    expenses.

General and administrative expenses for 2004 were
    $6.7 million, an increase of $0.5 million compared to
    2003. The increase in 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to
    increased patent expenses related to applications in RNAi
    technology and to increased business development activities,
    offset by lower salaries and benefits due to a work force
    reduction which occurred in February 2003.

Acquired
    in-process research and development  

In December 2004, we acquired Skinetics Biosciences, Inc.
    (Skinetics), a company formed around the research related to the
    development of siRNAs for permanent hair removal. Under the
    terms of the acquisition, we issued 502,845 shares of our
    common stock, valued at $1.6 million, to Skinetics 
    shareholders, in exchange for 100% of the common stock of
    Skinetics. In addition, we incurred $0.3 million in
    expenses related to the acquisition. We expensed these costs at
    the time of the acquisition based upon our determination that
    the acquired intellectual property and research had not yet
    reached technological feasibility and the in-process research
    and development had no alternative future uses.

Subject to the achievement of certain milestones and other
    conditions, we may issue additional shares of our common stock
    (some or all of which may be paid in cash in lieu of shares)
    plus additional shares of common stock based on possible future
    sales (some or all of which may be paid in cash in lieu of
    shares). The value of such stock will be based on the price of
    the stock as of future dates.

Write-off
    of patent costs  

In April 2003, we changed our business strategy which had
    previously focused on the development of ribozyme-based
    therapeutics and diagnostics to developing a new class of
    nucleic acid-based therapeutics based on RNA interference. As a
    result of finalizing this change in strategic direction, we
    undertook a detailed review of our existing patent portfolio.
    Based on this review, we wrote off $5.3 million of
    capitalized patent costs related to the ribozyme technology.

35

Table of Contents   

Interest
    and other income  

Interest and other income was $1.1 million in 2005,
    compared to $0.5 million in 2004 and $0.4 million in
    2003. The fluctuation from year to year is due to the
    fluctuation of average balances in our cash, cash equivalents
    and securities
     available-for-sale 
    as well as prevailing interest rates.

Interest
    expense  

Interest expense was less than $0.1 million in 2005,
    compared to $0.3 million in 2004 and $0.4 million in
    2003. Interest expense in 2004 was primarily related to a loan
    from Schering AG which was paid off in January 2005. Interest
    expense in 2003 relates to the loan from Schering AG and also to
    a third-party equipment loan which was repaid in February 2004.

Equity in
    loss of unconsolidated affiliate  

Equity in loss of unconsolidated affiliate of $0.2 million
    in 2003 represents our share of expenses of Medizyme, a joint
    venture we previously had with Elan Corporation. The joint
    venture was terminated in April 2003.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

We had cash, cash equivalents and securities
     available-for-sale 
    of $45.7 million at December 31, 2005 compared with
    $36.1 million at December 31, 2004. We invest our
    securities
     available-for-sale 
    in interest bearing, investment-grade securities. During 2005 we
    received $27.3 million in net proceeds from the issuance of
    equity securities, used $14.0 million to fund operating
    activities, repaid debt obligations totaling $3.1 million
    and purchased $0.9 million of patents and property, plant
    and equipment.

We have financed our operations through sales of equity
    securities in public offerings, private placements of preferred
    and common stock, funds received under our collaborative
    agreements and financing under equipment and tenant improvement
    loans. In July 2005 and August 2005, we received gross proceeds
    of $13.3 million and $14.7 million, respectively, in
    two closings of a private placement of shares of our common
    stock and warrants to purchase our common stock. We anticipate
    that with our existing financial resources and expected revenues
    from collaborations, our cash resources should be sufficient to
    meet our anticipated operating and capital requirements into
    2007. We will need to raise additional capital through any or
    all of the following: public or private debt or equity
    financing, merger or acquisition, new collaborative
    relationships, new credit facilities
     and/or  other
    sources. If we raise funds by issuing and selling more stock,
    your ownership in us will be diluted. We may grant future
    investors rights superior to those of existing stockholders. In
    addition, we do not know if additional funding will be available
    or available on acceptable terms when needed.

We expect to incur substantial additional costs in the future,
    including costs related to:

our research, drug discovery and development programs;

preclinical and clinical studies of our product candidates, if
    developed;

prosecuting and enforcing patent claims;

general administrative and legal fees; and

manufacturing and marketing of our products, if any.

In December 2005, our shelf registration statement was declared
    effective by the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended, which allows us to offer up to $75.0 million, in
    one or more transactions, by selling common stock, preferred
    stock, depositary shares, and warrants. As of March 31,
    2006, approximately $74.8 million may still be offered
    under the shelf registration, although there can be no assurance
    that we will be able to issue any of the remaining securities
    under this shelf registration on acceptable terms, or at all.

We anticipate that we will finance future property, plant and
    equipment needs through credit facilities, equity sales or
    revenues, all of which are yet to be determined.

36

Table of Contents   

Net
    Operating Loss Carryforwards  

At December 31, 2005, we had available net operating loss
    carryforwards and research and development credit carryforwards
    of $224.3 million and $7.3 million, respectively, for
    income tax purposes. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 contains
    provisions that limit the utilization of net operating loss and
    tax credit carryforwards if there has been a change of
    ownership, as described in Section 382 of the Internal
    Revenue Code. Such a change of ownership may limit the
    utilization of our net operating loss and tax credit
    carryforwards, and could have been triggered by our initial
    public offering or by subsequent sales of securities by us or
    our shareholders. As a result of the private placement of equity
    securities in April, 2003, which we consider a change of
    ownership for tax purposes, we believe that there are
    substantial limitations on the utilization of our net operating
    loss and tax credit carryforwards.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements  

As of December 31, 2005, we did not have any significant
    off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in
    Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of the Securities and Exchange
     Regulation S-K. 

Contractual
    Obligations  

Our long-term contractual obligations at December 31, 2005
    were as follows (in thousands):

ITEM 7A.    

QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   

We are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily from our
    investments in certain short-term investments. We invest our
    excess cash in highly liquid short-term investments that are
    typically held for the duration of the term of the respective
    instrument. We do not utilize derivative financial instruments,
    derivative commodity instruments or other market risk sensitive
    instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes.
    Accordingly, we believe that, while the securities we hold are
    subject to changes in the financial standing of the issuer of
    such securities, we are not subject to any material risks
    arising from changes in interest rates, foreign currency
    exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices or other market
    changes that affect market risk sensitive instruments.

ITEM 8.    

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

Submitted as part of Item 15(a) of this
     Form 10-K 
    and incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.    

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.    

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES   

Controls
    Evaluation and Related CEO and CFO Certifications  

As of the end of the period covered by this report, we have
    carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the
    participation of our principal executive officer and our
    principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design
    and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based
    upon the evaluation, our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer concluded as of the end of the
    period covered by this report that our disclosure controls and
    procedures were effective to ensure that information required to
    be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the
    Exchange Act (i) is recorded, processed, summarized and
    reported within the time periods specified in Securities and
    Exchange Commission rules and forms, and (ii) is
    accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
    principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as
    appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
    disclosure.

37

Table of Contents   

No change in our internal control over financial reporting
    occurred during the last fiscal quarter that has materially
    affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
    internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.    

OTHER
    INFORMATION   

Not applicable.

PART III  

ITEM 10.    

DIRECTORS
    AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

The information required by this item is included under the
    captions  Proposal No. 1: Election of
    Directors,   Executive Compensation  and
     Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange
    Act  in the Company s Proxy Statement to be filed in
    connection with the Company s 2006 Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders (the  2006 Proxy Statement ), which will
    be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission not later
    than 120 days after December 31, 2005, and is
    incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding the
    audit committee of the Company s board of directors and
    information regarding the audit committee financial expert is
    incorporated by reference to information contained under the
    caption  Audit Committee Report  in the 2006 Proxy
    Statement. Information regarding the Company s code of
    business conduct and ethics that applies to the Company s
    principal executive officer, principal financial officer and
    controller is incorporated by reference to information contained
    under the caption  Board of Directors and Committee
    Meetings   Audit Committee  in the 2006
    Proxy Statement. Information regarding the Company s
    implementation of procedures for stockholder nominations to the
    Company s board of directors is incorporated by reference
    to information contained under the caption  Consideration
    of Director Nominees   Stockholder Nominees 
    in the 2006 Proxy Statement.

We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the
     Code ) that applies to all employees, officers and
    Board members. A copy of the Code is available on our website at
    www.sirna.com and, along with the charters for our Board
    committees, may be obtained upon request, without charge, by
    writing to us at Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., Attn: Secretary, 185
    Berry Street, Suite 6504, San Francisco, CA 94107.
    Amendments to the Code and any waivers from provisions of the
    Code requiring disclosure under applicable Securities and
    Exchange Commission and Nasdaq National Market rules will be
    disclosed on our website.

ITEM 11.    

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the information contained under the caption
     Executive Compensation  in the 2006 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.    

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the information contained under the caption
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management  in the 2006 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.    

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the information contained under the captions
     Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
    Participation  and  Certain Transactions  in the
    2006 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14.    

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the information contained under the captions
     Report of the Audit Committee,   Ratification of
    Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    and  Fees Paid to Ernst & Young LLP  in the
    2006 Proxy Statement.

38

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

ITEM 15.      

EXHIBITS AND
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

(a) (1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

PAGE  

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

F-1

Balance Sheets 

F-2

Statements of
    Operations 

F-3

Statements of
    Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) 

F-4

Statements of Cash
    Flows 

F-5

Notes to Financial
    Statements 

F-6

(a) (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

Schedules have been omitted since they are either not required
    or are not applicable.

(a) (3) EXHIBITS

The information required by this item is set forth on the
    exhibit index which follows the signature page of this report.

39

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders 
    Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Sirna
    Therapeutics, Inc. as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and
    the related statements of operations, stockholders  equity
    (deficit), and cash flows for each of the three years in the
    period ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements
    are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
    statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an
    audit of the Company s internal control over financial
    reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control
    over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit
    procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not
    for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
    the Company s internal control over financial reporting.
    Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
    of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
    and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in
    conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Denver, Colorado

March 9, 2006

F-1

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

BALANCE SHEETS 

(in thousands, except par value and share data) 

See accompanying notes.

F-2

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

(in thousands, except for per share amounts) 

See accompanying notes.

F-3

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY (DEFICIT) 

(in thousands) 

See accompanying notes.

F-4

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(in thousands) 

See accompanying notes.

F-5

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1.    

Organization
    and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

Business
    activity   

Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., ( Sirna  or the
     Company ), is focused on developing therapeutics
    based on RNA interference (RNAi). The Company is using its
    expertise to design, stabilize, manufacture and deliver short
    interfering nucleic acids (siRNAs) that selectively activate the
    process of RNA interference. The Company is in research,
    preclinical and/or clinical development with product candidates
    in the following areas: Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD),
    chronic hepatitis, dermatology (initially permanent hair
    removal), asthma, Huntington s disease (HD) and diabetes.
    Sirna is evaluating disease targets and indications for the
    development of RNA interference-based therapeutics on its own
    and in collaboration with academic research institutions and
    commercial enterprises, such as the Company s collaboration
    in AMD with Allergan, Inc. (Allergan) and its collaboration in
    Huntington s disease with Targeted Genetics. In addition,
    Sirna manufactures and sells cGMP grade oligonucleotides to
    other companies under contract manufacturing agreements.

Since its inception as Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 1992,
    the Company has been dedicated to engineering RNA-based
    molecules for therapeutic and diagnostic purposes. In 2001, the
    Company began to study RNAi in greater detail and in 2003, based
    on scientific advancements and the potential of the field, the
    Company discontinued its efforts in ribozymes and redirected its
    focus to the development of RNAi technologies. Concurrent with
    the redirection, the Company changed its name to Sirna
    Therapeutics, Inc.

To date, the Company has been engaged in research and
    development activities and has experienced significant operating
    losses in each fiscal year since inception. The Company has not
    generated any revenue from the commercialization of its research
    and development technologies and expects to continue to incur
    significant operating losses over at least the next several
    years.

Use of
    estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
    requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
    affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
    the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
    and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
    differ from those estimates.

Revenue
    recognition   

The Company s revenues are derived principally from upfront
    payments, cost reimbursements, milestone payments and contract
    manufacturing services. The Company evaluates whether the
    delivered element under these arrangements has value to its
    customer on a stand-alone basis and whether objective and
    reliable evidence of fair value of the undelivered item exists.
    Deliverables that do not meet these criteria are treated as one
    unit of accounting for the purposes of revenue recognition.

Up-front payments:   Non-refundable upfront
    license fees and other payments where the Company continues
    involvement throughout development are deferred and recognized
    on a straight-line or ratable method, unless another methodology
    is more appropriate. Nonrefundable upfront fees for which no
    further performance obligations exist, and there is no
    continuing involvement by the Company, are recognized on the
    earlier of when the payments are received or when collection is
    assured. Deferred revenue represents the portion of upfront
    payments received that has not been earned.

Cost reimbursements:   The Company recognizes
    cost reimbursement revenue under collaborative agreements as the
    related research and development costs are incurred, as provided
    for under the terms of these agreements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Milestones:   Payments for milestones that are
    based on the achievement of substantive and at risk-performance
    criteria are recognized in full upon achievement of the
    incentive milestone events in accordance with the terms of the
    agreement. Incentive milestone payments are triggered either by
    the results of the Company s research efforts or by events
    external to the Company, such as regulatory approval to market a
    product or the achievement of specified sales levels by a
    marketing partner. As such, the incentive milestones are
    substantially at risk at the inception of the contract, and the
    amounts of the payments assigned thereto are commensurate with
    the milestone achieved. Upon the achievement of an incentive
    milestone event, the Company has no future performance
    obligations related to that payment.

The Company also records revenue from contract manufacturing
    services provided for other pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    companies. This revenue is recognized as the related
    manufacturing services are performed.

Patent
    costs   

Due to the early stage of the Company s technology, all
    patent costs are expensed as incurred unless it can be
    determined that the estimated recoverability of the patent costs
    is sufficiently probable, at which time such patent costs are
    capitalized. If capitalized, such deferred patent costs are then
    amortized over the estimated economic life of the patent on a
    straight-line basis. On a quarterly basis, the Company reviews
    all capitalized patents costs and if a determination is made to
    abandon a patent or a patent application, or that an issued
    patent or a patent application is deemed to no longer have
    significant economic value, the unamortized balance in deferred
    patent costs related to that patent is expensed at that time.

In 2003, the Company discontinued its efforts in ribozymes and
    redirected its focus to the development of RNAi technologies. As
    a result, the Company undertook a detailed review of its
    existing patent portfolio and wrote off $5.3 million of
    related patent costs in 2003. Patent costs related to the
    Company s existing RNAi technology and chemistry technology
    relating to process development, manufacturing, stabilization
    and delivery of oligonucleotides are capitalized and amortized
    over three years, due to the early stage of the RNAi technology.

Financial
    instruments   

The carrying amounts of financial instruments such as cash and
    cash equivalents, securities
     available-for-sale, 
    notes receivable and accounts payable approximate fair value
    because of the short maturities of these instruments.

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to
    concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash
    equivalents and securities
     available-for-sale. 
    The Company places its cash equivalents and securities
     available-for-sale 
    with high credit-quality financial institutions. The Company
    invests its excess cash primarily in money market instruments,
    and municipal and floating rate bonds. The Company has
    established guidelines relative to credit ratings,
    diversification and maturities that seek to maintain safety and
    liquidity. To date, the Company has not experienced losses on
    any of these investments.

Cash
    and cash equivalents   

The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased
    with a maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
    The Company s cash equivalents are comprised of
    certificates of deposit, money market funds, and investment
    securities.

Property
    and equipment   

Property and equipment is stated at cost and depreciated using
    the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
    assets. Laboratory equipment and furniture is generally
    depreciated over five years and computer equipment is generally
    depreciated over three years. Leasehold improvements and
    equipment subject to financing obligations are amortized on a
    straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful
    lives or the term of the related lease.

F-7

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Long-lived
    assets   

The Company s policy regarding long-lived assets is to
    evaluate the recoverability of its assets when the facts and
    circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired. This
    assessment of fair value is performed based on the estimated
    undiscounted cash flows compared to the carrying value of the
    assets. If the future cash flows (undiscounted and without
    interest charges) are less than the carrying value, a write-down
    would be recorded to reduce the related asset to its estimated
    fair value.

Research
    and development expenses   

Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.

Income
    taxes   

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with the
    provision of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 109 (SFAS No. 109),  Accounting for
    Income Taxes . SFAS 109 requires recognition of
    deferred taxes to provide for temporary differences between
    financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities.
    Deferred taxes are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
    be in effect in the year in which the basis difference is
    expected to reverse. The Company records a valuation allowance
    against deferred income tax assets when the realization of such
    deferred tax income assets cannot be determined to be more
    likely than not.

Loss
    per share   

Basic loss per share is computed by dividing the net loss
    applicable to common stockholders by the weighted average common
    shares outstanding for the period. Diluted loss per share
    includes the impact of potentially dilutive securities. As the
    Company s potentially dilutive securities (stock options
    and warrants) were anti-dilutive for all periods presented, they
    have been excluded from the computation of shares used in
    computing diluted loss per share.

The Company had securities outstanding which could potentially
    dilute basic earnings per share in the future, but were excluded
    from the computation of diluted net loss per share, as their
    effect would have been antidilutive. These outstanding
    securities at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 consisted of
    the following (in thousands):

Segment
    reporting   

The Company s operations are treated as one operating
    segment, as it reports profit and loss information only on an
    aggregate basis.

Accounting
    for investment in unconsolidated affiliate   

The Company owns approximately 1.5% of the outstanding stock of
    Archemix Corporation, on a fully-diluted basis, and accounts for
    its investment under the cost method.

Stock-based
    compensation   

The Company s employee stock compensation plans are
    accounted for utilizing the intrinsic value method in accordance
    with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,
    Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,

F-8

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

and related interpretations. Under this method, no compensation
    expense is recognized as long as the exercise price equals or
    exceeds the market price of the underlying stock on the date of
    the grant.

The following pro forma information regarding net loss has been
    calculated as if the Company had accounted for its employee
    stock options and stock purchase plan using the fair value
    method under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
    No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
    (SFAS No. 123):

The fair value of the Company s stock options used to
    compute pro forma net loss and pro forma loss per share
    disclosures is the estimated value using the Black-Scholes
    option-pricing model. The following assumptions were used in
    completing the model:

Recent
    accounting pronouncements   

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or
    FASB, issued a revision of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 123, or SFAS 123R, which requires all share-based
    payments to employees and directors, including grants of
    employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement
    based on their values. We expect to calculate the value of
    share-based payments under SFAS 123R on a basis
    substantially consistent with the fair value approach of
    SFAS 123. We will adopt SFAS 123R in our fiscal
    quarter beginning January 1, 2006, using the modified
    prospective method. We expect the adoption of SFAS 123R
    will have a material impact on our results of operations in that
    fiscal quarter and in each subsequent quarter, although it will
    have no impact on our overall liquidity. We cannot reasonably
    estimate the impact of adoption because it will depend on levels
    of share-based payments granted in the future as well as certain
    assumptions that can materially affect the calculation of the
    value share-based payments to employees and directors. However,
    had we adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods, the impact of
    the standard would have approximated the impact of SFAS 123
    as described in the disclosure of pro forma net loss and pro
    forma loss per common share in the  Stock Based
    Compensation  section above.

Reclassifications   

Certain reclassifications were made to the 2004 and 2003
    financial statements in order to conform to the 2005
    presentation.

F-9

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

2.    

Collaboration
    and License Agreements  

Allergan   

In September 2005, the Company entered into a Strategic Alliance
    Agreement with Allergan Corporation (Allergan). The agreement
    provides for a multi-year alliance with Allergan to develop
    Sirna-027, an RNAi-based therapeutic currently in Phase 1
    for Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD), and to discover and
    develop other RNAi-based therapeutics against select gene
    targets in ophthalmic diseases. Pursuant to the agreement,
    Allergan will pay for all costs related to the continued
    development of Sirna-027. In addition, the Company has the
    ability to receive contract manufacturing revenues and
    additional research funding, and will be potentially eligible
    for development milestones of up to $245.0 million plus
    royalties on the worldwide sales of products resulting from the
    alliance. In October 2005, the Company received an upfront
    license fee of $5.0 million. The $5.0 million fee will
    be recognized as revenue evenly over 36 months, which is
    the length of the initial term of the license. During 2005, the
    Company recognized revenue of $0.4 million related to the
    license fee.

Eli
    Lilly   

In January 2004, the Company entered into a collaboration
    agreement with Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) to apply its RNAi
    technology against Lilly s proprietary models in oncology.
    Under the terms of the eighteen-month collaboration, Lilly
    provided oncology targets, preclinical  in-vivo  models and
    research funding. The Company provided the RNAi expertise and a
    non-exclusive research license for its oncology technologies
    during the term of the collaboration. The goal was to establish
    a proof of concept that could lead to the development of novel
    RNAi therapies for oncology. In July 2005, Sirna achieved the
    proof of concept milestone set forth under the collaboration
    agreement which resulted in a payment from Lilly to the Company
    of $1.8 million.

Targeted
    Genetics   

In January 2005, the Company entered into a collaboration
    agreement with Targeted Genetics Corporation to develop siRNAs
    targeting Huntington s disease gene using an
    adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector. Under the terms of the
    collaboration, Sirna and Targeted Genetics will share the costs
    and revenues associated with research and development of
    AAV-based siRNA product for the treatment of Huntington s
    disease.

Protiva   

In February 2005, the Company entered into a Strategic Alliance
    Agreement with Protiva Biotherapeutics Inc. (Protiva) for
    delivery technology applicable to RNAi products. On
    February 27, 2006, the Company filed a lawsuit against
    Protiva for breach of contract and making fraudulent claims and
    terminated the licenses granted to Protiva under its RNAi
    technology, including access to patents, for the development of
    RNAi-based therapeutics against an undisclosed target, which was
    the only target named by Protiva under the agreement. Under the
    terms of the alliance agreement, in the event of breach by
    Protiva, Sirna continues to maintain its license to
    Protiva s SNALP delivery technology to develop and
    commercialize RNAi-based therapeutics against certain
    undisclosed targets. Pursuant to the alliance agreement, Protiva
    received 155,763 shares of Sirna common stock, valued at
    $488,000, and $500,000 in cash, both of which were placed into
    escrow pursuant to the terms of the agreement. In the third
    quarter of 2005, $574,000 was transferred back to the Company
    because certain conditions of the agreement were not met.

Protiva filed a counter action on March 28, 2006. Sirna
    believes that the counter action does not impact Sirna s
    ability to develop and commercialize any of its compounds. Sirna
    utilizes its own proprietary nanoparticle formulations for the
    delivery of its siRNAs.

Archemix
    Corporation   

In May 2001, the Company entered into a collaborative agreement
    with Archemix Corporation (Archemix), a privately held company.
    Under the terms of the agreement with Archemix, the Company
    granted certain licenses

F-10

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

and sublicenses to its intellectual property covering the
    allosteric ribozyme technology. The Company also received a
    license to Archemix s intellectual property covering
    allosteric ribozymes for use in molecular diagnostic
    applications. In exchange for the licenses, the Company received
    an equity position in Archemix. The Company owns approximately
    1.5% of the outstanding stock of Archemix Corporation, on a
    fully-diluted basis, and accounts for its investment under the
    cost method.

In addition, in July 2004, the Company entered into an exclusive
    four-year process development, analytical development and
    manufacturing alliance for all of Archemix s cGMP aptamers
    through Phase 2a clinical development. As part of this
    agreement, the Company also granted Archemix a worldwide,
    perpetual, non-exclusive license to its intellectual property
    for the manufacture and commercialization of aptamers. In
    addition to payments for the manufacture of aptamers, the
    Company will receive certain downstream consideration for the
    license granted to Archemix. This agreement follows an October
    2003 agreement between the companies that also provided for the
    Company to manufacture cGMP grade of Archemix s
    anti-thrombin aptamer, ARC183, for preclinical, Phase 1 and
    Phase 2a studies. The Company recognized contract
    manufacturing revenues from Archemix of $2.5 million and
    $0.9 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Columbia
    University   

In December 2004, the Company entered into a worldwide exclusive
    license agreement with Columbia University (Columbia) for
    intellectual property relating to genes involved in the hair
    growth pathway. This license includes rights to siRNAs targeting
    the so called  hairless gene  that can be used to
    inhibit hair growth. Under the terms of the license agreement,
    the Company issued 303,951 shares of its common stock,
    valued at $1.0 million, to Columbia in exchange for the
    license. The $1.0 million fee was expensed in 2004 as
    research and development due to the early stage of the
    technology. Columbia may receive additional cash in the future
    from the Company following the achievement of other certain
    milestones, including initiation of clinical trials for product
    candidates covered under the license. Columbia may also receive
    royalties on commercial product sales covered by the licensed
    patents.

Skinetics
    Biosciences Inc.   

In December 2004, the Company acquired Skinetics Biosciences,
    Inc. (Skinetics), a company formed around the research related
    to the development of siRNAs for permanent hair removal. Under
    the terms of the acquisition, the Company issued
    502,845 shares of its common stock, valued at
    $1.6 million, to Skinetics  shareholders, in exchange
    for 100% of the common stock of Skinetics. In addition, the
    Company incurred $0.3 million in expenses related to the
    acquisition. The Company expensed these costs at the time of the
    acquisition based upon its determination that the acquired
    intellectual property and research had not yet reached
    technological feasibility and the in-process research and
    development had no alternative future uses.

Subject to the achievement of certain milestones and other
    conditions, the Company may issue additional shares of its
    common stock (some or all of which may be paid in cash in lieu
    of shares) plus additional shares of common stock based on
    possible future sales (some or all of which may be paid in cash
    in lieu of shares). The value of such stock will be based on the
    price of the stock as of future dates.

University
    of Massachusetts Medical School   

In September 2003, the Company announced that it entered into a
    worldwide license agreement with the University of Massachusetts
    Medical School (Medical School) for its undivided interest in
    intellectual property relating to RNA interference technology
    covering siRNAs. The license grants the Company rights to the
    undivided interest of the Medical School in the intellectual
    property for uses relating to human and veterinary therapeutic,
    prophylactic, diagnostic and health care applications.

F-11

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Under the terms of the license agreement, the Company paid
    $3.0 million in cash and issued 579,150 shares of its
    common stock, valued at $3.0 million, to the Medical School
    in exchange for the license. The purchase price was expensed to
    research and development during the third quarter of 2003 due to
    the early stage of the technology. In 2004, upon the first
    anniversary of the license agreement, the filing of the
    Company s first Investigational New Drug (IND) and the
    initiation of the Company s first Phase 1 clinical
    trial, the Company paid the Medical School a total of
    $1.4 million. The Medical School will receive additional
    cash and common stock from the Company following the achievement
    of other certain milestones, including the issuance of the
    patent in the United States and the European Union. The Medical
    School may also receive royalties on commercial product sales
    covered by the licensed patents. In addition, the Medical School
    will receive a portion of any revenues the Company may generate
    from the direct sublicensing of this patent.

Elan
    Corporation   

In January 2000, the Company formed a joint venture with Elan
    Corporation (Elan) for the development and commercialization of
    HERZYME, a ribozyme product previously under development by the
    Company to treat breast and other cancers. As part of this
    arrangement, the Company licensed HERZYME and Elan licensed its
    MEDIPAD   
    drug delivery technology to the joint venture, Medizyme
    Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. (Medizyme). The Company accounted for this
    joint venture under the equity method because Elan retained
    significant minority investor rights. During 2003, the Company
    wrote off the remaining cost basis in its equity investment
    through its share of Medizyme losses.

In April 2003, the Company entered into a termination agreement
    with Elan, under which the Company retained full rights to
    HERZYME and Elan transferred its 19.9% interest in Medizyme
    (held as preferred stock) to the Company in exchange for either
    (a) a portion of any future net revenues received by the
    Company if it enters into a commercialization agreement with a
    third party for HERZYME; or (b) a royalty on net sales of
    HERZYME by the Company. All operations of Medizyme ceased in
    2003.

Schering
    AG, Berlin   

In April 1997, the Company entered into a research collaboration
    with Schering AG, Berlin, (Schering AG) focusing on the use of
    ribozymes for therapeutic target validation, as well as the
    development of ribozymes as therapeutic agents. Through this
    agreement, Schering AG provided various loans to the Company. In
    January 2005, the Company paid off the $3.1 million
    remaining on the loan, including accrued interest.

3.    

Securities
     Available-for-Sale   

The Company s marketable debt securities which are not
    classified as cash equivalents are classified as
     available-for-sale 
    and carried at fair value. Management considers its investments
    in marketable debt securities to be available for use in current
    operations. As a result, all investments in debt securities are
    classified as current assets, even if the remaining maturity of
    the investment is more than one year beyond the balance sheet
    date. The Company determines the appropriate classification of
    debt securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluates such
    designation as of each balance sheet date. The cost of
    securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
    Realized gains and losses and declines in value, judged to be
    other than temporary, on
     available-for-sale 
    debt securities are included in interest and other income.
    Unrealized holding gains and losses on
     available-for-sale 
    debt securities are recorded in a separate component of
    stockholders  equity. The amortized cost basis of
     available-for-sale 
    debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and
    accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization is
    included in interest income or expense, as appropriate. Interest
    on
     available-for-sale 
    debt securities is included in interest income.

F-12

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

The following is a summary of the Company s
     available-for-sale 
    securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004 (in thousands):

4.    

Property
    and Equipment  

Property and equipment consists of the following (in thousands):

5.    

Operating
    Leases  

As of December, 31, 2005, the Company leased office and lab
    space in two buildings in Boulder, Colorado and one building in
    San Francisco, California under non-cancelable operating
    leases that expire in October 2007, June 2007 and March 2007,
    respectively. According to the terms of the leases, rent for the
    buildings will increase each year based on increases in the
    Consumer Price Index, but not less than 3.5% or more than
    6.0% per annum. Total rent expense, including miscellaneous
    laboratory equipment rentals, was $1.3 million,
    $1.1 million and $1.1 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively.

The Company s minimum operating lease commitments at
    December 31, 2005 are as follows (in thousands):

In February 2006, the Company entered into a lease for
    additional office and lab space in San Francisco,
    California (see Note 12).

6.    

Convertible
    Debt  

In April 1997, the Company entered into a research collaboration
    with Schering AG, Berlin, (Schering AG) focusing on the use of
    ribozymes for therapeutic target validation, as well as the
    development of ribozymes as therapeutic agents. Through this
    agreement, Schering AG provided various loans to the Company. In
    January 2005, the Company paid off the $3.1 million
    remaining on the loan, including accrued interest. Cash paid for
    interest

F-13

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

related to the loan was $0.1 million, $0.3 million and
    $0.8 million, for the years ended December 31, 2005,
    2004 and 2003 respectively.

7.    

Stockholders 
    Equity  

2005
    Private Placement   

On July 5, 2005, the Company entered into definitive
    agreements relating to a private placement of shares of its
    common stock for $1.60 per share and warrants to purchase
    shares of its common stock with an exercise price of $1.92 per
    share. The private placement took place in two closings in which
    a total of 17,506,250 shares of the Company s common
    stock and warrants to purchase 6,302,246 shares of its
    common stock were issued, with aggregate gross proceeds to the
    Company of $28.0 million. The agreements provide that the
    warrants are exercisable in cash, or in the absence of an
    effective registration statement, by cash or net exercise into
    unregistered shares of the Company s common stock. The
    agreements further provide that liquidated damages for failure
    to maintain the registration of the warrant shares is limited to
    a maximum of ten percent of the aggregate purchase price
    allocable to the warrants. Accordingly, settlement of the
    warrants in unregistered shares, if accompanied by payment of
    limited liquidated damages, is a valid settlement alternative
    that is within the Company s control.

Pursuant to the terms of the private placement, the Company
    received $13.3 million upon the first closing which
    occurred on July 6, 2005. The Company received the
    remaining $14.7 million upon the second closing which
    occurred after stockholder approval at the Company s
    Special Meeting of Stockholders on August 23, 2005. Under
    applicable rules of the Nasdaq National Market, the second
    closing of the private placement required stockholder approval.
    Costs related to the private placement were approximately
    $1.9 million.

Participants in the private placement consisted of unaffiliated
    accredited institutional investors and affiliated investors who
    comprised a majority of the Company s board of directors,
    either directly or through affiliates, and who, at the time of
    the placement, collectively held a majority of the
    Company s issued and outstanding common stock.

2005
    Shelf Registration Statement   

On November 23, 2005, the Company filed a shelf
    registration statement on
     Form S-3, 
    which was declared effective on December 5, 2005 by the
    SEC. Under this filing, the Company has the ability to raise up
    to $75.0 million, in one or more transactions, by selling
    common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, and warrants.
    As of the date of this filing, approximately $74.8 million
    remains available under the registration statement.

The shelf registration statement remains effective and, subject
    to market conditions and the Company s capital needs, so
    long as the Company is then eligible to use the registration
    statement under SEC rules, it may seek to use any availability
    under the shelf registration statement by making an offering of
    securities covered for sale under the registration statement. In
    addition, the Company may amend the shelf registration statement
    or file a new shelf registration statement to increase its
    potential access to capital.

Warrant
    Restructuring and Exercise   

In December 2004, the Company completed a warrant restructuring
    pursuant to a Warrant Exchange Agreement with a group of, at the
    time of its largest stockholders, Sprout Group, Venrock
    Associates, Oxford Bioscience Partners and Granite Global
    Ventures (Warrant Holders). In the warrant restructuring, the
    Company exchanged with the Warrant Holders warrants exercisable
    in the aggregate for 2,703,479 shares of Sirna common stock
    (Original Warrants), which would not have expired until April of
    2008 and were exercisable either with cash or warrant shares,
    for a set of replacement warrants (First Replacement Warrants)
    for the same number of shares as surrendered under the Original
    Warrants. The First Replacement Warrants were exercisable at the
    same exercise price of $2.52 as the Original Warrants but only
    for cash and only if on or before February 7, 2005. In
    return, the

F-14

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Warrant Holders, in exchange for the Original Warrants, also
    received additional replacement warrants (Additional Warrants)
    that do not expire until December 30, 2009, and that are
    exercisable either with cash or warrant shares, and are for 10%
    more shares than surrendered under the Original Warrants. These
    Additional Warrants had a higher exercise price ($3.85) than the
    Original Warrants, but the exercise price was subject to
    potential downward adjustment on or before June 30, 2005 as
    follows: (i) in the event that the Company consummated a
    qualifying private placement of its securities for the primary
    purpose of raising capital on or before June 30, 2005, the
    exercise price per share would be adjusted to the lesser of
    $3.85 and the lowest price per share of common stock sold (or
    deemed sold) by the Company in any such private placement; and
    (ii) if the Company did not consummate such a private
    placement on or before June 30, 2005, the exercise price
    per share would be adjusted to the lesser of $3.85 and the
    average closing selling price of a share of the Company s
    common stock on the Nasdaq National Market for the 15-trading
    day period ending on June 30, 2005. On December 30,
    2004, the Company received $6.8 million when the Warrant
    Holders exercised the First Replacement Warrants for
    2,703,479 shares of the Company s common stock.
    Subsequently, the exercise price for the Additional Warrants was
    adjusted to $2.00 since the Company did not consummate a private
    placement on or before June 30, 2005.

2004
    Private Placement   

In May 2004, pursuant to common stock purchase agreements, the
    Company completed the sale of 5,760,000 shares of its
    common stock to institutional investors for aggregate gross
    proceeds of approximately $18.7 million. The common stock
    was sold at a price per share of $3.25. Costs related to the
    sale of the common stock were approximately $1.5 million.

2003
    Private Placement and Change of Control   

On April 21, 2003, pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement,
    the Company completed the sale of 24,242,425 shares of its
    common stock and warrants to purchase 5,015,152 shares
    of its common stock to the Sprout Group, Venrock Associates,
    Oxford Bioscience Partners IV, TVM V Life Science Ventures
    GmbH & Co. KG, and Granite Global Ventures (Investors)
    for an aggregate gross consideration of approximately
    $48.0 million. The common stock was sold in a private
    placement at a price per share of $1.98 and the warrants were
    exercisable at any time over the five-year period measured from
    the date of issuance at a price per share of $2.52. Costs
    related to the sale of common stock and warrants were
    approximately $3.0 million. In December 2004, certain of
    the Investors restructured and exercised the warrants to
    purchase 2,703,478 shares of the Company s common
    stock for gross proceeds of $6.8 million.

Stock
    Option Plans   

The Company has established a Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan
    and an Incentive Stock Option Plan, as amended (collectively,
    the Plans), under which it has authorized stock option grants to
    purchase up to 10,377,859 shares of the Company s
    common stock to eligible employees, consultants, and other
    individuals. Options to purchase the Company s common stock
    are exercisable at a price as determined by the Board of
    Directors at the time the option is granted, which shall not be
    less than 100% of the fair market value (110% in the case of
    10 percent shareholders) at the date of grant. Vesting
    rights are determined by the Board of Directors at the time the
    option is granted and generally options became exercisable at
    the rate of 25 percent one year from the date of grant and
    1/48 monthly thereafter. If not exercised, the options
    expire after ten years.

F-15

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

A summary of the status of the Company s stock option plans
    at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and changes during the
    periods then ended is presented in the tables below:

The weighted average exercise price of options outstanding at
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $4.01, $4.15 and
    $4.32, respectively. The weighted average fair value of stock
    options granted during 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $2.71, $3.82 and
    $2.40, respectively.

Stock options vest as follows:

The following table summarizes information concerning
    outstanding and exercisable options as of December 31, 2005:

Stock
    Based Compensation   

In February 2003, pursuant to its transition from Ribozyme
    Pharmaceuticals to Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. and the related
    recapitalization of the Company, the Company granted options to
    purchase approximately 4.8 million shares

F-16

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

of common stock to employees and consultants at an exercise
    price of $2.10 per share, subject to stockholder approval,
    which was granted on April 16, 2003. Related to the
    February 2003 grants, the Company recorded compensation expense
    of $0.5 million, $0.7 million and $0.3 million,
    during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of
    December 31, 2005, $0.9 million of unearned
    compensation related to the 2003 grant is deferred and will
    continue to be expensed as the options vest, generally over the
    next two years. In addition, during 2005, 2004 and 2003, the
    Company recorded $0.1 million, $0.3 million and
    $0.1 million, respectively, of expense related to options
    issued to consultants which were accounted for under the
    requirements of SFAS 123 and EITF 96-18, Accounting
    for Equity Instruments That Are Issued to Other Than Employees
    for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling, Goods or Services.

Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan   

The Company adopted an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended
    (the Purchase Plan), authorizing the issuance of
    933,333 shares pursuant to purchase rights granted to
    employees of the Company. The Purchase Plan provides a means by
    which employees purchase common stock of the Company through
    payroll deductions. Common stock is purchased for accounts of
    employees participating in the Purchase Plan at a price per
    share equal to the lower of (i) 85% of the fair market
    value of a share of common stock on the date of commencement of
    participation in the offering or (ii) 85% of the fair
    market value of a share of common stock on the date of purchase.
    Generally all regular employees, including executive officers,
    may participate in the Purchase Plan and may authorize payroll
    deduction of up to 15% of their base compensation for the
    purchase of stock under the Purchase Plan. The Company s
    Board of Directors has the authority to terminate the Purchase
    Plan at its discretion. As of December 31, 2005,
    436,925 shares have been issued under the Purchase Plan.

Shareholder
    Rights Plan   

In November 2000, the Company adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan
    (the Rights Plan) designed to protect and maximize stockholder
    value and to assist the Board of Directors in ensuring fair and
    equitable benefit to all stockholders in the event of a hostile
    bid to acquire the Company. The Rights Plan imposes a
    significant penalty upon any person or group that acquires
    15 percent or more of the Company s outstanding common
    stock without the approval of the Sirna Board. Under the Rights
    Plan, a dividend of one Preferred Stock Purchase Right was
    declared for each common share held of record as of the close of
    business on December 8, 2000. The rights generally will not
    become exercisable unless an acquiring entity accumulates or
    initiates a tender offer to purchase 15 percent or
    more of the Company s common stock. In that event, each
    right will entitle the holder, other than the unapproved
    acquirer and its affiliates, to purchase either the
    Company s common stock or shares in an acquiring entity at
    one-half of market value. The rights expire on December 8,
    2010.

F-17

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Common
    Shares Reserved for Future Issuance   

The following is a summary of common shares reserved for future
    issuance as of December 31, 2005:

8.    

Income
    Taxes  

A reconciliation between the Company s recorded income tax
    benefit and the U.S. statutory rate is as follows (in
    thousands):

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had net operating loss
    carryforwards for federal income tax purposes of approximately
    $224.3 million, which will expire on various dates between
    2007 and 2025, if not utilized. As of December 31, 2005,
    the Company had federal R&D tax credits of approximately
    $7.3 million, which will expire on various dates between
    2007 and 2025. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 contains provisions
    that limit the utilization of net operating loss and tax credit
    carryforwards if there has been a change of ownership, as
    described in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Such
    a change of ownership may limit the Company s utilization
    of its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and
    could have been triggered by the Company s initial public
    offering or by subsequent sales of securities by the Company or
    its shareholders. As a result of the private placement in April,
    2003, which the Company considers a change of ownership for tax
    purposes, the Company believes that there are substantial
    limitations on the utilization of net operating loss and tax
    credit carryforwards.

F-18

Table of Contents   

SIRNA
    THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

NOTES TO FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS   (Continued) 

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
    differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
    liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts
    used for income tax purposes. Significant components of the
    Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities are as
    follows (in thousands):

Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon future
    earnings, if any, the timing and amount of which are uncertain.
    The valuation allowance increased by $13.4 million,
    $11.7 million, and $10.9 million in 2005, 2004 and
    2003, respectively.

9.    

Employee
    Savings Plan  

The Company has a 401(k) plan that allows participants to
    contribute between 1% and 25% of their salary, subject to
    eligibility requirements and annual limitations. The
    Company s Board of Directors may, at its sole discretion,
    approve matching contributions made with the Company s
    common stock. The matching contribution that is made in shares
    of the Company s stock is subject to vesting restrictions.
    In 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Board approved a 50% common stock
    match equal to the total of participant deferrals made in each
    respective year. The Company recorded an expense of
    $0.2 million, $0.3 million and $0.2 million
    related to the value of the Company matching contribution for
    the years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

10.    

Related
    Party Transactions  

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had a total of
    $0.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively, of
    non-interest bearing loans due from executive officers. The
    loans may be forgiven by the Company under certain
    circumstances. The loans are forgivable or payable to the
    Company under various terms not to exceed five years. The
    Company forgave $0.1 million, $0.2 million and
    $0.4 million of related loans during each of the years
    ending December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

In March 2002, the Company reached an agreement with Jeremy L.
    Curnock Cook, a member of the Company s Board of Directors,
    whereby the Company utilized his consulting firm, Bioscience
    Management, plc, for strategic planning consulting. During 2003,
    the Company paid $24,000 to Mr. Cook in connection with
    this agreement.

F-19

Table of Contents   

11.    

Selected
    Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)  

Basic and diluted loss per share is computed independently for
    each of the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum of quarterly
    basic and diluted loss per share amounts may not equal annual
    basic and diluted loss per share amounts.

On February 22, 2006, the Company entered into a lease
    agreement with ARE-San Francisco No. 26, LLC for
    laboratory and office space in a to-be-constructed building to
    be known as 1700 Owens Street in San Francisco, California.
    The target commencement date for occupancy under this lease
    agreement is November 15, 2006, with an initial term of
    84 months. This space will serve as the Company s
    corporate headquarters as well as its primary research and
    development laboratory.

Aggregate base rent under the lease is as follows: Year
    1   $1.3 million; Year
    2   $1.5 million; Year
    3   $1.6 million; Years
    4-7   the base rent will be adjusted pursuant to
    an annual consumer price index specified in the lease agreement.
    In addition to the base rent, the Company will make lump sum
    payments of $0.2 million on each of January 1, 2008
    and January 1, 2009. The Company is also responsible for
    the payment of certain operating expenses, including taxes,
    capital repairs and improvements, property management and
    insurance. Pursuant to the terms of the lease agreement, the
    Company is required to deliver to the landlord a security
    deposit in the amount of $0.9 million.

In connection with the lease, the Company also entered into a
    short-term lease for laboratory and office space in South San
    Francisco, California. The Company intends to exit the
    short-term lease at the time it occupies the 1700 Owens
    Street facility, scheduled to be in November 2006.

F-20

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized in San Francisco, California, on
    March 31, 2006.

SIRNA THERAPEUTICS, INC. 

By: 

/s/  GREGORY L. WEAVER 

Gregory L. Weaver

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this
     Form 10-K 
    has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
    registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature  

Title  

Date  

/s/  Howard W.
    Robin 
     
    Howard
    W. Robin

President and Chief Executive
    Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

March 31, 2006

/s/  Gregory L.
    Weaver 
     
    Gregory
    L. Weaver

Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer  (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

March 31, 2006

/s/  R. Scott
    Greer 
     
    R.
    Scott Greer

Chairman of the Board of Directors

March 31, 2006

/s/  Jeremy L.
    Curnock Cook 
     
    Jeremy
    L. Curnock Cook

Director

March 31, 2006

/s/  Douglas
    Fambrough 
     
    Douglas
    Fambrough

Director

March 31, 2006

/s/  Dennis Langer 
     
    Dennis
    Langer

Director

March 31, 2006

/s/  Lutz Lingnau 
     
    Lutz
    Lingnau

Director

March 31, 2006

/s/  James Niedel 
     
    James
    Niedel

Director

March 31, 2006

/s/  Bryan Roberts 
     
    Bryan
    Roberts

Director

March 31, 2006

F-21

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX  

Number  

Description  

3

.1

Amended and Restated Certificate
    of Incorporation of the Company (1)

3

.2

Amended and Restated By-Laws of
    the Company, including amendment executed on February 22,
    2006 [conformed copy]***

4

.1

Specimen Stock Certificate (3)

4

.2

Rights Agreement, dated
    November 22, 2000 between Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, which
    includes the form of Certificate of Designation of
    Series AA Junior Participating Preferred Stock attached as
    Exhibit A thereto (4)

4

.3

Amendment dated February 11,
    2003 to Rights Agreement dated November 22, 2000 between
    Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and American Stock
    Transfer & Trust Company (5)

4

.4

Registration Rights Agreement
    dated January 7, 2000, between Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals and
    Elan International Services, Ltd. (6)

4

.5

Registration Rights Agreement
    dated January 7, 2000 among Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals, Elan
    International Services, Ltd. and Medizyme Pharmaceuticals Ltd.
    (6)

4

.6

Common Stock and Warrant Purchase
    Agreement dated as of February 11, 2003 by and among
    Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the Investors named
    therein (5)

4

.7

Form of First Replacement Warrants
    (12)

4

.8

Form of Second Replacement Warrant
    (12)

4

.9

Form of Securities Purchase
    Agreement dated as of July 5, 2005 by and between the
    Company and certain Investors (14)

4

.10

Form of Warrant to Purchase Common
    Stock of the Company (14)

10

.2

Employment Agreement dated as of
    February 11, 2003 between Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals and
    Howard Robin (2)**

10

.6

Employment Agreement dated as of
    February 11, 2003 between Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals and
    Nassim Usman (2)**

10

.7

Indemnification Agreement dated as
    of April 18, 2003 between Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals and
    Howard Robin (2)

10

.8

Indemnification Agreement dated as
    of April 18, 2003 between Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals and
    Jeremy Curnock Cook (2)

10

.9

Indemnification Agreement dated as
    of April 18, 2003 between Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals and
    Douglas Fambrough and Alan G. Walton (2)

10

.10

Indemnification Agreement dated as
    of April 18, 2003 between Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals and
    James Niedel (2)

10

.11

Indemnification Agreement dated as
    of April 18, 2003 between Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals and
    Bryan Roberts (2)

10

.17

Indemnification Agreement dated as
    of July 28, 2003 between the Company and R. Scott
    Greer (7)

10

.18

Schering Aktiengesellschaft AG
    Waiver Letter (5)

10

.19

Elan International Services, Ltd.
    Waiver and Conversion Letter (5)

10

.22

Amendment to Lease for Real
    Property dated March 13, 1997, between Aero Tech
    Investments and Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals (8)

10

.23

Research, License, Supply and
    Royalty Agreement between Schering Aktiengesellschaft and
    Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals dated April 9, 1997 (9)*

10

.24

Purchase Agreement dated
    April 9, 1997, among Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals, Schering
    Berlin Venture Corporation and Schering
    Aktiengesellschaft (9)*

10

.26

Employment Agreement dated
    March 10, 2004 between the Company and Roberto Guerciolini
    (10)**

10

.27

Purchase Agreement dated as of
    April 30, 2004 between the Company and certain Purchasers
    set forth therein (11)

10

.28

Employment Agreement dated as of
    August 19, 2004 between the Company and Martin Schmieg
    (13)**

F-22

Table of Contents   

*  

The Company has applied for and received confidential treatment
    with respect to portions of these exhibits.

**  

Indicates compensatory plan or arrangement.

***   
     
    Filed herewith.

(1) 

Incorporated by reference to certain exhibits to the
    Company s Registration Statement on
     Form S-1 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    July 22, 2003 (File
     No. 333-107216). 

(2) 

Incorporated by reference to certain exhibits to the
    Company s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    April 24, 2003.

(3) 

Incorporated by reference to certain exhibits to Ribozyme
    Pharmaceuticals 
     Form SB-2 
    Registration Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission on April 11, 1996 (File
     No. 333-1908-D). 

(4) 

Incorporated by reference to certain exhibits to Ribozyme
    Pharmaceuticals 
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    December 5, 2000.

(5) 

Incorporated by reference to certain exhibits to Ribozyme
    Pharmaceuticals 
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    February 14, 2003.

(6) 

Incorporated by reference to certain exhibits to Ribozyme
    Pharmaceuticals 
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    February 8, 2000.

(7) 

Incorporated by reference to certain exhibits to the
    Company s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    August 14, 2003.

(8) 

Incorporated by reference to certain exhibits to Ribozyme
    Pharmaceuticals 
     Form 10-KSB 
    and amendment for the year ended December 31, 1996 filed
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 31,
    1997.

(9) 

Incorporated by reference to certain exhibits to Ribozyme
    Pharmaceuticals 
     Form 8-K 
    dated June 12, 1997.

(10)  
     
    Incorporated by reference to certain exhibits to the
    Company s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    April 30, 2004.

F-23

Table of Contents   

(11) 
 
         Incorporated by reference herein to certain exhibits to the
    Company s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 3,
    2004.

(12) 
 
         Incorporated by reference herein to certain exhibits to the
    Company s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    January 6, 2005.

(13) 
 
         Incorporated by reference to certain exhibits to the
    Company s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission on March 31, 2005.

(14) 
 
         Incorporated by reference herein to certain exhibits to the
    Company s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    July 11, 2005.

(15) 
 
         Incorporated by reference herein to certain exhibits to the
    Company s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005 filed with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 14, 2005.

(16) 
 
         Incorporated by reference to certain annex to the Company s
    Proxy Statement in connection with its Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on
    May 23, 2005.

F-24

<EX-3.2>
 2
 f19117exv3w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 3.2

exv3w2 

EXHIBIT 3.2 

AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS  

OF  

SIRNA THERAPEUTICS, INC.  

(A Delaware corporation)

(Amended as of February 22, 2006)

ARTICLE I

STOCKHOLDERS 

1. CERTIFICATES REPRESENTING STOCK.

(a) Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or
in the name of, the Corporation by the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, if any,
or by the President or a Vice-President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the
Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation representing the number of shares owned by
such person in the Corporation. If such certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent other than
the Corporation or its employee or by a registrar other than the Corporation or its employee, any
other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent, or
registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have
ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be
issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent
or registrar at the date of issue.

(b) Whenever the Corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than
one series of any class of stock, and whenever the Corporation shall issue any shares of its stock
as partly paid stock, the certificates representing shares of any such class or series or of any
such partly paid stock shall set forth thereon the statements prescribed by the Delaware General
Corporation Law. Any restrictions on the transfer or registration of transfer of any shares of
stock of any class or series shall be noted conspicuously on the certificate representing such
shares.

(c) The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in place of any certificate theretofore
issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Board of Directors may
require the owner of any lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such person s legal
representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify the Corporation against any
claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such
certificate or the issuance of any such new certificate.

2. FRACTIONAL SHARE INTERESTS.

The Corporation may, but shall not be required to, issue fractions of a share.

3. STOCK TRANSFERS.

Upon compliance with provisions restricting the transfer or registration of transfer of shares of
stock, if any, transfers or registration of transfer of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be
made only on the stock ledger of the Corporation by the registered holder thereof, or by such
person s attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the
Secretary of the Corporation or with a transfer agent or a registrar, if any, and on surrender of
the certificate or certificates for such shares of stock properly endorsed and the payment of all
taxes due thereon.

4. RECORD DATE FOR STOCKHOLDERS.

(a) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote
at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record
date, which record date shall not precede

the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and
which record date shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such
meeting. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for
determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at
the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is
waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A
determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of
stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting;  provided  ,  however  ,
that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.

(b) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any
dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise
any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any
other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not
precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date
shall be not more than sixty days prior to such action. If no record date has been fixed, the
record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on
the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.

5. MEANING OF CERTAIN TERMS.

As used herein in respect of the right to notice of a meeting of stockholders or a waiver thereof
or to participate or vote thereat or to consent or dissent in writing in lieu of a meeting, as the
case may be, the term  share  or  shares  or  share of stock  or  shares of stock  or  stockholder 
or  stockholders  refers to an outstanding share or shares of stock and to a holder or holders of
record of outstanding shares of stock when the Corporation is authorized to issue only one class of
shares of stock, and said reference is also intended to include any outstanding share or shares of
stock and any holder or holders of record of outstanding shares of stock of any class upon which or
upon whom the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation confers such rights where
there are two or more classes or series of shares of stock or upon which or upon whom the General
Corporation Law confers such rights notwithstanding that the Second Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation may provide for more than one class or series of shares of stock, one
or more of which are limited or denied such rights thereunder;  provided  ,  however  ,
that no such right shall vest in the event of an increase or a decrease in the authorized number of
shares of stock of any class or series which is otherwise denied voting rights under the provisions
of the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including any preferred stock
which is denied voting rights under the provisions of the resolution or resolutions adopted by the
Board of Directors with respect to the issuance thereof.

6. STOCKHOLDER MEETINGS.

(a) TIME. The annual meeting shall be held on the date and at the time fixed, from time to time, by
the Board of Directors. A special meeting shall be held on the date and at the time fixed by the
Board of Directors.

(b) PLACE. Annual meetings and special meetings shall be held at such place, within or without the
State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may, from time to time, fix. Whenever the Board of
Directors shall fail to fix such place, the meeting shall be held at the registered office of the
Corporation in the State of Delaware.

(c) CALL. Annual meetings and special meetings may be called by the Board of Directors or by any
officer instructed by the Board of Directors to call the meeting.

(d) NOTICE OR WAIVER OF NOTICE. Written notice of all meetings shall be given, stating the place,
date and hour of the meeting. The notice of an annual meeting shall state that the meeting is
called for the election of Directors and for the transaction of other business which may properly
come before the meeting, and shall (if any other action which could be taken at a special meeting
is to be taken at such annual meeting), state such other action or actions as are known at the time
of such notice. The notice of a special meeting shall in all instances state the purpose or
purposes for which the meeting is called. If any action is proposed to be taken which would, if
taken, entitle stockholders to receive payment for their shares of stock, the notice shall include
a statement of that purpose and to that effect. Except as otherwise provided by the General
Corporation Law, a copy of the notice of any meeting shall be given, personally or by mail, not
less than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, unless the lapse of the
prescribed period of time shall have been waived, and directed to each stockholder at such person s
address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. Notice by mail shall be

deemed to be given when deposited, with postage thereon prepaid, in the United States mail. If a
meeting is adjourned to another time, not more than thirty days hence, and/or to another place, and
if an announcement of the adjourned time and place is made at the meeting, it shall not be
necessary to give notice of the adjourned meeting unless the Board of Directors, after adjournment,
fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting. Notice need not be given to any stockholder who
submits a written waiver of notice before or after the time stated therein. Attendance of a person
at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the
stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the
meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the
stockholders need be specified in any written waiver of notice.

(e) STOCKHOLDER LIST. There shall be prepared and made, at least ten days before every meeting of
stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the
address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.
Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the
meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting
either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified
in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held.
The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time
thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. The stock ledger shall be the only
evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by
this section or the books of the Corporation, or to vote at any meeting of stockholders.

(f) CONDUCT OF MEETING. Meetings of the stockholders shall be presided over by one of the following
officers in the order of seniority and if present and acting: the Chairman of the Board, if any,
the Vice-Chairman of the Board, if any, the President, a Vice President, a chairman for the meeting
chosen by the Board of Directors or, if none of the foregoing is in office and present and acting,
by a chairman to be chosen by the stockholders. The Secretary of the Corporation or, in such
person s absence, an Assistant Secretary, shall act as secretary of every meeting, but if neither
the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present the chairman for the meeting shall appoint a
secretary of the meeting.

(g) PROXY REPRESENTATION. Every stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such
stockholder by proxy in all matters in which a stockholder is entitled to participate, whether by
waiving notice of any meeting, voting or participating at a meeting, or expressing consent or
dissent without a meeting. Every proxy must be signed by the stockholder or by such person s
attorney-in-fact. No proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date unless such
proxy provides for a longer period. A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it
is irrevocable and, if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to
support an irrevocable power. A proxy may be made irrevocable regardless of whether the interest
with which it is coupled is an interest in the stock itself or an interest in the Corporation
generally.

(h) INSPECTORS AND JUDGES. The Board of Directors, in advance of any meeting, may, but need not,
appoint one or more inspectors of election or judges of the vote, as the case may be, to act at the
meeting or any adjournment thereof. If an inspector or inspectors or judge or judges are not
appointed by the Board of Directors, the person presiding at the meeting may, but need not, appoint
one or more inspectors or judges. In case any person who may be appointed as an inspector or judge
fails to appear or act, the vacancy may be filled by appointment made by the person presiding
thereat. Each inspector or judge, if any, before entering upon the discharge of such person s
duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector or judge at such
meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability. The inspectors or
judges, if any, shall determine the number of shares of stock outstanding and the voting power of
each, the shares of stock represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum and the validity
and effect of proxies, receive votes, ballots or consents, hear and determine all challenges and
questions arising in connection with the right to vote, count and tabulate all votes, ballots or
consents, determine the result, and do such other acts as are proper to conduct the election or
vote with fairness to all stockholders. On request of the person presiding at the meeting, the
inspector or inspectors or judge or judges, if any, shall make a report in writing of any
challenge, question or matter determined by such person or persons and execute a certificate of any
fact so found.

(i) QUORUM. Except as the General Corporation Law or these Bylaws may otherwise provide, the
holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum
at a meeting of stockholders for the transaction of any business. The stockholders present may
adjourn the meeting despite the absence of a quorum. When a quorum is once present to organize a
meeting, it is not broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any shareholders.

(j) VOTING. Each stockholder entitled to vote in accordance with the terms of the Second Amended
and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and of these Bylaws, or, with respect to the issuance of
preferred stock, in accordance with the terms of a resolution or resolutions of the Board of
Directors, shall be entitled to one vote, in person or by proxy, for each share of stock entitled
to vote held by such stockholder. In the election of Directors, a plurality of the votes present at
the meeting shall elect. Any other action shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast
except where the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the . General
Corporation Law prescribes a different percentage of votes and/or a different exercise of voting
power. Voting by ballot shall not be required for corporate action except as otherwise provided by
the General Corporation Law.

7. STOCKHOLDER ACTION WITHOUT MEETINGS.

Any action required to be taken, or any action which may be taken, at any annual or special meeting
of stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a
consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders
of the outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary
to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were
present and voted. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less
than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in
writing and shall be delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware,
its principal place of business or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the
book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the
Corporation s registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested.

ARTICLE II

DIRECTORS 

1. FUNCTIONS AND DEFINITION.

The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board
of Directors of the Corporation. The use of the phrase  whole Board  herein refers to the total
number of Directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.

2. QUALIFICATIONS AND NUMBER.

A director need not be a stockholder, a citizen of the United States or a resident of the State of
Delaware. The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be
eight (8). The number of Directors may be increased or decreased by action of the Board of
Directors. The Corporation will take all necessary or desirable actions within its control in order
to cause the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation to be elected to the Board of Directors.

3. ELECTION AND TERM.

Any Director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. Thereafter, Directors
who are elected at an annual meeting of stockholders, and Directors who are elected in the interim
to fill vacancies and newly created Directorships, shall hold office until the next annual meeting
of stockholders and until their successors have been elected and qualified or until their earlier
resignation or removal. In the interim between annual meetings of stockholders or of special
meetings of stockholders called for the election of Directors and/or for the removal of one or more
Directors and for the filling of any vacancies in the Board of Directors, including vacancies
resulting from the removal of Directors for cause or without cause, any vacancy in the Board of
Directors may be filled by the vote of a majority of the remaining Directors then in office,
although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining Director.

4. MEETINGS.

(a) TIME. Regular meetings shall be held at such time as the Board shall fix. Special meetings may
be called upon notice.

(b) FIRST MEETING. The first meeting of each newly elected Board may be held immediately after each
annual meeting of the stockholders at the same place at which the meeting is held, and no notice of
such meeting shall be necessary to call the meeting, provided a quorum shall be present. In the
event such first meeting is not so held immediately after the annual meeting of the stockholders,
it may be held at such time and place as shall be specified in the notice given as provided for
special meetings of the Board of Directors, or at such time and place as shall be fixed by the
consent in writing of all of the Directors.

(c) PLACE. Meetings, both regular and special, shall be held at such place within or without the
State of Delaware as shall be fixed by the Board.

(d) CALL. No call shall be required for regular meetings for which the time and place have been
fixed. Special meetings may be called by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board, if any,
the Vice-Chairman of the Board, if any, or the President, or of a majority of the Directors.

(e) NOTICE OR ACTUAL OR CONSTRUCTIVE WAIVER. No notice shall be required for regular meetings for
which the time and place have been fixed. Written, oral or any other mode of notice of the time and
place shall be given for special meetings at least twenty-four hours prior to the meeting; notice
may be given by telephone of telefax (in which case it is effective when given) or by mail (in
which case it is effective seventy-two hours after mailing by prepaid first class mail). The notice
of any meeting need not specify the purpose of the meeting. Any requirement of furnishing a notice
shall be waived by any Director who signs a written waiver of such notice before or after the time
stated therein. Attendance of a Director at a meeting of the Board shall constitute a waiver of
notice of such meeting, except when the Director attends a meeting for the express purpose of
objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting
is not lawfully called or convened.

(f) QUORUM AND ACTION. A majority of the whole Board shall constitute a quorum except when a
vacancy or vacancies prevents such majority, whereupon a majority of the Directors in office shall
constitute a quorum, provided that such majority shall constitute at least one-third (1/3) of the
whole Board. Any Director may participate in a meeting of the Board by means of a conference
telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all Directors participating in the
meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting of the Board shall constitute
presence in person at such meeting. A majority of the Directors present, whether or not a quorum is
present, may adjourn a meeting to another time and place. Except as herein otherwise provided, and
except as otherwise provided by the General Corporation Law, the act of the Board shall be the act
by vote of a majority of the Directors present at a meeting, a quorum being present. The quorum and
voting provisions herein stated shall not be construed as conflicting with any provisions of the
General Corporation Law and these Bylaws which govern a meeting of Directors held to fill vacancies
and newly created Directorships in the Board.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation will not, without the approval of, or the removal or
modification of these approval requirements by, a majority of the whole Board of Directors (i.e., a
majority of the total number of directors then in office):

(1) Authorize, offer, sell, or issue any equity or debt securities of the Corporation;

(2) Incur indebtedness for borrowed money or guarantee or act as a surety for any debt which
individually or in the aggregate is in excess of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000);

(3) Grant a security interest in assets of the Corporation which individually or in the
aggregate have a value in excess of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000);

(4) Sell, lease, sublease, license or otherwise transfer any of the rights, title and interest
in any material Company Intellectual Property (as defined in that certain Stock and Warrant
Purchase Agreement dated as of February 11, 2003 by and among the Corporation and the investors
named therein (the  Stock Purchase Agreement 

(5) Purchase, license or otherwise acquire any of the rights, title or interest in any material
Intellectual Property (as defined in the Stock Purchase Agreement) of any third party relating
to pharmaceuticals or biologics;

(6) Approve any annual business plan or budget or any material revisions thereto; or

(7) Hire or terminate any executive officer of the Corporation, including the chief executive
officer and chief financial officer.

(g) CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING. The Chairman of the Board, if any and if present and acting, shall
preside at all meetings. Otherwise, the Vice-Chairman of the Board, if any and if present and
acting, or the President, if present and acting, or any other Director chosen by the Board, shall
preside.

5. REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS.

Any or all of the Directors may be removed for cause or without cause by the stockholders.

6. COMMITTEES.

The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or
more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the Directors of the Corporation. The
Board may designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace
any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Any such committee, to the
extent provided in the resolution of the Board, shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board
of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize
the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. In the absence or
disqualification of any member of any such committee or committees, the members thereof present at
any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may
unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of
any such absent or disqualified member.

7. ACTION IN WRITING.

Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any
committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the
case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of
proceedings of the Board or committee.

ARTICLE III

OFFICERS 

1. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS.

The Board of Directors may elect or appoint a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, one
or more Vice Presidents (which may be denominated with additional descriptive titles), a Secretary,
one or more Assistant Secretaries, a Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer, one or more Assistant
Treasurers and such other officers as it may determine. Any number of offices may be held by the
same person.

2. TERM OF OFFICE: REMOVAL.

Unless otherwise provided in the resolution of election or appointment, each officer shall hold
office until the meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of
stockholders and until such officer s successor has been elected and qualified or until the earlier
resignation or removal of such officer. The Board of Directors may remove any officer for cause or
without cause.

3. AUTHORITY AND DUTIES.

All officers, as between themselves and the Corporation, shall have such authority and perform such
duties in the management of the Corporation as may be provided in these Bylaws, or, to the extent
not so provided, by the Board of Directors.

4. THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.

The Chairman of the Board of Directors, if present and acting, shall preside at all meetings of the
Board of Directors, otherwise, the President, if present, shall preside, or if the President does
not so preside, any other Director chosen by the Board shall preside.

5. THE PRESIDENT.

The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation.

6. VICE PRESIDENTS.

Any Vice President that may have been appointed, in the absence or disability of the President,
shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the President, in the order of their seniority,
and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.

7. THE SECRETARY.

The Secretary shall keep in safe custody the seal of the Corporation and affix it to any instrument
when authorized by the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed
by the Board of Directors. The Secretary (or in such officer s absence, an Assistant Secretary, but
if neither is present another person selected by the Chairman for the meeting) shall have the duty
to record the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders and Directors in a book to be kept
for that purpose.

8. THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OR TREASURER.

The Chief Financial Officer/Treasurer shall have the care and custody of the corporate funds, and
other valuable effects, including securities, and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts
and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other
valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be
designated by the Board of Directors. The Chief Financial Officer/Treasurer shall disburse the
funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board, taking proper vouchers for such
disbursements, and shall render to the President and Directors, at the regular meetings of the
Board, or whenever they may require it, an account of all transactions as Chief Financial
Officer/Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of
Directors, the Chief Financial Officer/Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond for such term,
in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board for the faithful
performance of the duties of such office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of
such person s death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers,
vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in such person s possession or under such
person s control belonging to the Corporation.

ARTICLE IV

CORPORATE SEAL 

AND 

CORPORATE BOOKS 

The corporate seal shall be in such form as the Board of Directors shall prescribe. The books of
the Corporation may be kept within or without the State of Delaware, at such place or places as the
Board of Directors may, from time to time, determine.

ARTICLE V

FISCAL YEAR 

The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed, and shall be subject to change, by the Board of
Directors.

ARTICLE V

INDEMNITY 

1. INDEMNITY UNDERTAKING.

Each person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved (as a
party, witness, or otherwise), in any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or
proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative (hereinafter a  Proceeding ),
by reason of the fact that he, or a person of whom he is the legal representative, is or was a
director, officer, employee, or agent of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the
corporation as a director, officer, employee, or agent of another corporation or of a partnership,
joint venture, trust, or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans
(hereinafter  Other Entity ), whether the basis of the Proceeding is alleged action in an official
capacity as a director, officer, employee, or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a
director, officer, employee, or agent (hereafter an  Agent ), shall be indemnified and held
harmless by the corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation
Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended or interpreted (but, in the case of any such
amendment or interpretation, only to the extent that such amendment or interpretation permits the
corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than were permitted prior thereto) against
all expenses, liability, and loss (including attorneys  fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes
or penalties, and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement, and any interest, assessments, or other
charges imposed thereon, and any federal, state, local, or foreign taxes imposed on any Agent as a
result of the actual or deemed receipt of any payments under this Article VI) reasonably incurred
or suffered by such person in connection with investigating, defending, being a witness in, or
participating in (including on appeal), or preparing for any of the foregoing in, any Proceeding
(hereinafter  Expenses   provided, however  , that except as to actions to enforce indemnification
rights pursuant to Section 3 of this Article VI, the corporation shall indemnify any Agent seeking
indemnification in connection with a Proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if
the Proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation. The
right to indemnification conferred in this Article VI shall be a contract right.

2. ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES.

The Corporation shall, from time to time, reimburse or advance to any Director or officer or other
person entitled to indemnification hereunder the funds necessary for payment of expenses, including
attorneys  fees and disbursements, incurred in connection with any Proceeding, in advance of the
final disposition of such Proceeding; provided, however, that, if required by the General
Corporation Law, such expenses incurred by or on behalf of any Director or office or other person
may be paid in advance of the final disposition of a Proceeding only upon receipt by the
Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such Director or officer (or other person
indemnified hereunder), to repay any such amount so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined
by final judicial decision from which there is no further right of appeal that such Director,
officer or other person is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses.

3. RIGHT OF CLAIMANT TO BRING SUIT.

If a claim under Section 1 or 2 of this Article V is not paid in full by the corporation within
thirty (30) days after a written claim has been received by the corporation, the claimant may at
any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim
and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense
(including attorneys  fees) of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action
(other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending a Proceeding in
advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking has been tendered to the
corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct that make it permissible under
the Delaware General Corporation Law for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount
claimed. The burden of proving such a defense shall be on the corporation. Neither the failure of
the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders)
to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the
claimant is proper under the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct
set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the corporation
(including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the
claimant had not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or
create a presumption that claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.

4. RIGHTS NOT EXCLUSIVE.

The rights to indemnification and reimbursement or advancement of expenses provided by, or granted
pursuant to, this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a person
seeking indemnification or reimbursement or advancement of expenses may have or hereafter be
entitled under any statute, the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, any agreement, any vote
of stockholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise, both as to action in his or her official
capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office.

5. CONTINUATION OF BENEFITS.

The rights to indemnification and reimbursement or advancement of expenses provided by, or granted
pursuant to, this Article VI shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a Director or
officer (or other person indemnified thereunder) and shall inure to the benefit of the executors,
administrators, legatees and distributees of such person.

6. INSURANCE.

The Corporation shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is
or was a Director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the
request of the Corporation as a Director, officer, employee or agent of an Other Entity, against
any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or
arising out of such person s status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to
indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article VI, the Second
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended April 16, 2003 or under section 145
of the General Corporation Law of any other provision law.

7. SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.

The corporation shall not be liable to indemnify any Agent under this Article VI (a) for any
amounts paid in settlement of any action or claim effected without the corporation s written
consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld; or (b) for any judicial award if the
corporation was not given a reasonable and timely opportunity, at its expense, to participate in
the defense of such action.

8. BINDING EFFECT.

The provisions of this Article VI shall be a contract between the Corporation, on the one hand, and
each Director and officer who serves in such capacity at any time while this Article VI is in
effect and any other person entitled to indemnification hereunder, on the other hand, pursuant to
which the Corporation and each such Director, officer or other person intend to be, and shall be
legally bound. No repeal or modification of this Article VI shall affect any rights or obligations
with respect to any statement of facts then or theretofore existing or thereafter arising or any
proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such
statement of facts.

9. PROCEDURAL RIGHTS.

The rights to indemnification and reimbursement or advancement of expenses provided by, or granted
pursuant to, this Article VI shall be enforceable by any person entitled to such indemnification or
reimbursement or advancement of expenses in any court of competent jurisdiction. The burden of
proving that such indemnification or reimbursement or advancement of expenses is not appropriate
shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of
Directors, its independent legal counsel and its stockholders) to have made a determination prior
to the commencement of such action that such indemnification or reimbursement or advancement of
expenses is proper in the circumstances nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including
its Board of Directors, its independent legal counsel and its stockholders) that such person is not
entitled to such indemnification or reimbursement or advancement of expenses shall constitute a
defense to the action or create a presumption that such person is not so entitled. Such a person
shall also be indemnified for any expenses incurred in connection with successfully establishing
his or her right to such indemnification or reimbursement or advancement of expenses, in whole or
in part, in any such Proceeding.

10. SUBROGRATION.

In the event of payment under this Article VI, the corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of
such payment to all of the rights of recovery of the Agent, who shall execute all papers required
and shall do everything that may be necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of
such documents necessary to enable the corporation effectively to bring suit to enforce such
rights.

11. NO DUPLICATION OF PAYMENTS.

The corporation shall not be liable under this Article VI to make any payment in connection with
any claim made against the Agent to the extent the Agent has otherwise actually received payment
(under any insurance policy, agreement, vote, or otherwise) of the amounts otherwise indemnifiable
hereunder.

12. SERVICE DEEMED AT CORPORATION S REQUEST.

Any Director or officer of the Corporation serving in any capacity (a) in which another corporation
of which a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of its directors is held,
directly or indirectly, by the Corporation or (b) any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or
any corporation referred to in clause (a) shall be deemed to be doing so at the request of the
Corporation.

13. ELECTION OF APPLICABLE LAW.

Any person entitled to be indemnified or to reimbursement or advancement of expenses as a matter of
right pursuant to this Article VI may elect to have the right to indemnification or reimbursement
or advancement of expenses interpreted on the basis of the applicable law in effect at the time of
the occurrence of the event or events giving rise to the applicable Proceeding, to the extent
permitted by law, or on the basis of the applicable law in effect at the time such indemnification
or reimbursement or advancement of expenses is sought. Such election shall be made, by a notice in
writing to the Corporation, at the time indemnification or reimbursement or advancement of expenses
is sought; provided, however, that if no such notice is given, the right to indemnification or
reimbursement or advancement of expenses shall be determined by the law in effect at the time
indemnification or reimbursement or advancement of expenses is sought.

</EX-3.2>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 f19117exv23w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

exv23w1 

EXHIBIT 23.1  

CONSENT
    OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following
    Registration Statements:

1) Registration Statement
     (Form S-3 
     No. 333-108848) 
    of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

2) Registration Statement
     (Form S-3/A 
     No. 333-108848) 
    of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

3) Registration Statement
     (Form S-3 
     No. 333-110603) 
    of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

4) Registration Statement
     (Form S-3 
     No. 333-115421) 
    of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

5) Registration Statement
     (Form S-3 
     No. 333-126937) 
    of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

6) Registration Statement
     (Form S-3 
     No. 333-129944) 
    of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

7) Registration Statement
     (Form S-8 
     No. 333-104873) 
    pertaining to the 401(k) Salary Reduction Plan and Trust, the
    2001 Stock Option Plan and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of
    Sirna Therapeutics, Inc.

8) Registration Statement
     (Form S-8 
     No. 333-128496) 
    pertaining to the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan of Sirna
    Therapeutics, Inc.

and related prospectuses of our report dated March 9, 2006,
    with respect to the financial statements of Sirna Therapeutics,
    Inc., included in this Annual Report
     (Form 10-K) 
    for the year ended December 31, 2005.

/s/  ERNST & YOUNG LLP 

Denver, Colorado

March 27, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 4
 f19117exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1  

CERTIFICATION
    OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF
    THE 
    SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

I, Howard W. Robin, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. for the year ended December 31,
    2005;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e)) 
    for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

c) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Howard W. Robin 

Howard W. Robin 
    President and Chief Executive Officer 
    (Principal Executive Officer)

Date: March 31, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 5
 f19117exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2  

CERTIFICATION
    OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF
    THE 
    SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  

I, Gregory L. Weaver, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
     Form 10-K 
    of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. for the year ended December 31,
    2005;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
    untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
    fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
    circumstances under which such statements were made, not
    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
    other financial information included in this report, fairly
    present in all material respects the financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
    and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared;

b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and

c) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
    control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
    auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
    of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/   Gregory L. Weaver 

Gregory L. Weaver 
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

Date: March 31, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 6
 f19117exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1  

CERTIFICATION
    OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL
    OFFICER 
    PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF
    2002  

I, Howard W. Robin, Chief Executive Officer of Sirna
    Therapeutics, Inc. (the  Company ), and I, Gregory L.
    Weaver, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, do hereby
    certify, to my knowledge, as follows:

1. The Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the annual period ended December 31, 2005 (the
     Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended; and

2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents,
    in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
    operations of the Company.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have executed this Certification this
    31st day of March, 2006.

/s/   Howard W. Robin 

Howard W. Robin 
    President and Chief Executive Officer 
    (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/   Gregory L. Weaver 

Gregory L. Weaver 
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

A signed original of this written statement required by
    Section 906 has been provided to the registrant and will be
    retained by the registrant and furnished to the Securities and
    Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

This certification is furnished and shall not be deemed to be
     filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the
    liability of that Section, nor shall such certification be
    deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration
    statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of
    1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except as otherwise
    stated in such filing. 

</EX-32.1>

