<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_1253808_0000906318-06-000037_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4014394</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>254110</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3284238</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>262255</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>31</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>2</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000906318-06-000037.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331161906
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000906318-06-000037
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		3
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CBD MEDIA LLC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001253808
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS PUBLISHING [2741]
		IRS NUMBER:				020553288
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-107783
		FILM NUMBER:		06729136

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		312 PLUM STREET
		CITY:			CINCINNATI
		STATE:			OH
		ZIP:			45202

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Kq4QrSf/AEa4LIpF1CMZ4PuQI3sf3wLFw04vYNTuv9FC1pIiCsOj9G9o1aEGXWyr
 KvmtQLQOBlxNEF4Y7oJXJg==

 0000906318-06-000037.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 cbdmedia10k2005.htm

UNITED STATES 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   
 WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549  
   
  FORM 10-K   
 
 Commission File Number:333-107783  
 CBD MEDIA LLC  
 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  
 
 Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (513) 397-6794  
 SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) AND 12 (g) OF THE ACT:  
         
   TITLE OF CLASS 
     
   NAME OF EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED 
  
   N/A 
     
   N/A 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
         [  ] Yes  [X] No 

1 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.                                          [  ]Yes  [X] No  
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.                      [X] Yes         [  ] No 
   
 Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     [X] 
   
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):   
 [  ] Large accelerated filer          [  ] Accelerated filer          [X] Non-accelerated filer 
   
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). 
                                                  [  ] Yes         [X] No 
   
 The registrant does not have any voting or non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates.   

2 

CBD MEDIA LLC 
FORM 10-K 
TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Page  

PART I 

ITEM 1 
     
   Business 

4 
     
   ITEM 1A 
      Risk Factors 
         17 
     
   ITEM 1B 
      Unresolved Staff Comments 
         21 
     
   ITEM 2 
     
   Properties 

21 
     
   ITEM 3 
     
   Legal Proceedings 

22 
     
   ITEM 4 
     
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

22 

PART II 

ITEM 5 
     
   Market for Registrant s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters 

22 
     
   ITEM 6 
     
   Selected Financial Data 

22 
     
   ITEM 7 
     
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

23 
     
   ITEM 7A 
     
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 

33 
     
   ITEM 8 
     
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

33 
     
   ITEM 9 
     
   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

33 
     
   ITEM 9A 
      Controls and Procedures 
         33 
     
   ITEM 9B 
      Other information 
         34 

PART III 

ITEM 10 
     
   Directors and Executive Officers of CBD Media LLC 

34 
     
   ITEM 11 
     
   Executive Compensation 

35 
     
   ITEM 12 
     
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 

38 
     
   ITEM 13 
     
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

39 
     
   ITEM 14 
     
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

40 

PART IV 

ITEM 15 
     
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

41 

Signatures 

43 

3 

PART I   
 This annual report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The actual future results for CBD Media LLC may differ materially from those discussed herein. Additional information concerning factors that could cause or contribute to such differences can be found in Part II, Item 7 entitled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  elsewhere throughout this Annual Report, and in the  Risk Factors  section of CBD Media s Registration Statement on Form S-4, Registration No. 333-107783, filed with the SEC on November 5, 2003.    
 As used herein, unless the context otherwise requires: 
     
   CBD Media,   we,   us,   our  or other similar terms refers to the business of CBD Media LLC;  
     
   CBD Holdings  refers to CBD Media Holdings LLC, the parent of CBD Media LLC;  
     
   Cincinnati Bell Inc.  refers to Cincinnati Bell Inc., which was known as Broadwing Inc. prior to a corporate name change effective May 27, 2003.  
  ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
    CBD Media   
 We are the twelfth largest directory publisher in the United States based on 2004 revenue. We are the exclusive directory publisher for Cincinnati Bell branded yellow pages in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area, which is the 23 rd   largest metropolitan area in the country according to the 2000 U.S. Census. We believe our directories captured an 87% share of the 2004 total directory advertising spending in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area. In 2005, we published fifteen yellow pages directories and distributed 2.4 million yellow pages directories to businesses and residences. We also offer integrated internet-based directory services to our consumers through the cincinnatibellyellowpages.com web site. In addition, we publish the white pages for Cincinnati Bell Telephone, the incumbent local exchange carrier in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area for over 100 years, for whom we distributed 1.0 million copies in 2005. We generate 
our revenues primarily through the sale of advertising, and in 2005 had over 15,000 local advertising customers consisting primarily of small and medium-sized businesses, as well as approximately 1,200 national advertisers. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, our revenue was $86.8 million.  All measures of profits and total assets for CBD Media may be found in the Company s financial statements included in this Form 10-K.  The Index to Financial Statements is located on page F-1. 
 We acquired our directory publishing business in March 2002 from Cincinnati Bell Inc., the owner and operator of Cincinnati Bell Telephone. As a part of this acquisition, we received an exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name  Cincinnati Bell Directory  to conduct our directory publishing business in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area until March 2022. In addition, Cincinnati Bell Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates are contractually prohibited from competing with us in the directory publication business in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area until March 2012.  
 The U.S. directory advertising industry has experienced stable and consistent revenue growth, with revenues for the industry increasing from approximately $5.8 billion in 1985 to approximately $15.9 billion in 2004, representing a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 5.5% for the period. We believe that print directories are, in many cases, the primary forms of advertising used by small and medium-sized businesses and are one of the most resilient forms of advertising in economic downturns. In addition, we believe that the annual publication cycle and the priority placement given to existing advertisers result in high customer retention rates by directory publishers even during poor economic times. During the last two recessions beginning in 1991 and 2001, the U.S. directory advertising industry experienced positive growth in spending, while other major forms of advertising media, including radio, television and newspaper, experienced spending declines .   
  Competitive Strengths   
  Dominant local market position.     We have superior printed directory usage and possession statistics in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area. According to a 2005 study prepared for us by the University of Cincinnati, we are the preferred yellow pages directory of 94% of the population of the Greater Cincinnati metropolitan area and have residential and business possession rates of 95%. We believe these usage statistics are, in part, responsible  

4 

for our high advertiser satisfaction rates (5 year average of 69.3% - top 2 boxes of  Excellent/Very Good ), as well as our average local advertiser retention rate of over 80% in the last five years, which we believe is the highest in our market and compares favorably to other directories published under the local exchange carrier brand nationwide. We expect that Cincinnati Bell Telephone s established market position and strong brand name will allow us to sustain our market share, maintain high usage trends for our directories and attract additional high-quality advertisers in the future.  
  Powerful brand name.     In 2002, we entered into a twenty-year agreement with Cincinnati Bell Inc. that allows us to use the widely-recognized Cincinnati Bell name to market our directory products. The Cincinnati Bell brand has been in existence for over 100 years and its high regard among our consumers is evidenced by Cincinnati Bell Telephone s receipt of the J.D. Power and Associates 2001 and 2002 awards for both Local Residential Telephone Customer Satisfaction-Mainstream Users and Residential Long Distance Customer Satisfaction-Mainstream Users, as well as the award for the Highest Overall Satisfaction Among Wireless Telephone Users in Cincinnati in 2002. Cincinnati Bell Telephone s local ranking represents J.D. Power s highest award for all local telephone companies in the United States. We believe our strategic relationship with Cincinnati Bell Telephone affords us brand recognition as the incumbent yellow pages pr
ovider and gives us a significant competitive advantage compared with directory publishers in our market that are not associated with the Cincinnati Bell brand.  
  Efficient operating model.     We utilize select strategic partners, whom we believe are among the best operators in their respective industries, to provide sales, printing, distribution and billing support under long-term contracts. This business model allows us to realize best-in-industry service and cost efficiencies that directly contribute to our operating and free cash flow margins, which we believe are among the highest in the directory publishing industry. We are able to leverage our partners  expertise and national experience, thereby minimizing ongoing capital expenditures and allowing our management to concentrate its focus on the strategic management of our business. We also believe that we are a significant customer of each of our key partners, which we believe enhances the quality of services that we receive.  
  Strong financial profile.     Our business has been characterized by consistent revenue growth and high operating margins. Our revenue has increased since 1993, from approximately $58.7 million in 1993 to approximately $86.8 million in 2005, resulting in a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 3%. The stability of our financial results is driven by (i) our directory advertising sales, which are presold through one-year contracts typically paid on a monthly basis; (ii) our collection rate during the year ended December 31, 2005 of approximately 95% of gross accounts receivable, which we believe compares favorably to the collection rates of both other directories published under the local exchange carrier brand and independent directory publishers; (iii) our high advertising retention rates from existing customers, which have averaged over 80% over the last five years; and (iv) the fact that 85% of our operating expenses are tied 
to contracts with strategic partners and tend to be correlated with our revenue.  
  Favorable cash flow characteristics.     Our business has strong cash flow characteristics due to the combination of our consistent revenue, strong operating margins, high collection rates, low capital expenditures, minimal working capital requirements, limited corporate overhead and a favorable tax position resulting from our acquisition from Cincinnati Bell Inc. in 2002. The timing of our cash inflows throughout the year is also predictable, as our customers typically pay for their advertisements in our directories in twelve equal monthly installments.  
  Attractive market demographics.     We believe that the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area has a growing economy, a stable base of employment and a high percentage of service-based businesses. We believe service-based businesses, as an industry group, are more favorably disposed to advertise in yellow pages directories. Economic growth in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area tends to follow national averages very well.  Local Gross Regional Product (GRP) tends to increase 1.1% for every 1% increase in real Gross Domestic Product (GDP).  The 2004 unemployment rate for the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area was 5.3%, below the national unemployment rate of 5.5%, and 57% of newly created or retained jobs in 2001 were in the services industry. In addition, more than 370  Fortune 500  firms have a presence in Cincinnati, and ten of these firms have their headquarters in the region.  
  Diverse customer base.     We have a large, diversified yellow pages customer base. In 2005, we served more than 15,000 local and approximately 1,200 national advertisers through our fifteen yellow pages directories. We believe  

5 

that the significance of the directory advertising medium to these customers, along with the diversity of our customer base, mitigates the effect of downturns in the economy or any individual sector of the economy on our business as our operations are not dependent on any one particular advertiser or industry segment. In 2005, no single advertiser represented more than 0.6% of our revenue and our largest topical directory heading accounted for only 5.2% of our total revenue. In addition, in 2005, our top ten topical directory headings accounted for approximately 23% of total revenue.  
  Significant value for our target advertisers.     We believe that directory advertising provides significant value to our customers and a value greater than that created by advertising in most other major forms of media. The 2.4 million yellow pages directories that were distributed to businesses and residences in 2005 represent a broad spectrum of potential users and, in turn, offer our advertisers significant local reach. Directory advertising is also directional in nature, which means consumers typically use directories immediately before making a purchase, creating a meaningful value for advertisers in the directory. As a result, according to CRM Associates, it was estimated that in 2002 directory advertising produced a higher median return on investment ($51 for every $1 spent) than advertising in most other major forms of media, including newspapers ($34), radio ($19), magazines ($17) and television ($10).  
  Experienced management team.     Our current management team has over 50 years combined experience with our business, with an average of approximately fourteen years of experience each. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Douglas A. Myers, has worked at our business for the past seventeen years in a variety of positions prior to being appointed to his current role in 1999. John P. Schwing, our Chief Financial Officer, and David D. Miller, our Vice President of Sales and Operations, have served in senior management roles with us for the past twelve and sixteen years, respectively. The senior management s relationships with the strategic partners involved in CBD Media s operations are well-established and long-standing. In addition, each member of our senior management has an equity interest in our business.  
  Business Strategy   
  Increase revenue from existing local customer base.     We have historically achieved annual revenue growth by selling additional advertising or services to our existing local customer base of more than 15,000 local customers, comprised primarily of small to medium-sized service businesses. By offering a larger ad display, color text instead of black and white, improved display placement under a heading, a wide variety of specialty product offerings such as directory spine and back-cover advertising, and a full-array of Internet Yellow Pages offerings we have been successful in generating higher average revenue per customer over time, the key focus of our sales force.  
  Expand product offerings and value-added services.     We provide small and medium-sized businesses with a fully-integrated solution for their directory advertising needs. For many of our local advertisers, printed yellow pages advertising has historically been their primary or only means of advertising. Only 29% of our print customers currently advertise using our internet directory advertising site, cincinnatibellyellowpages.com. We have fully integrated this website in our local sales channel and have begun providing a bundled advertising product consisting of print and internet advertising to our customers. We believe that as the percentage of our customer base using our internet directory advertising products increases, we will be able to generate incremental revenue from these products. We are introducing additional advertising opportunities in our print directory product, such as front cover advertisements, which we expect will al
so allow us to generate additional incremental revenue from our customer base.  
  Leverage strategic partnerships.     Our unique partnership-based business model allows us to generate operating margins which we believe, based on publicly available information, are among the highest in the directory publishing industry and allows our management team to focus on strategic growth. We will continue to use these partnerships to generate continued revenue growth while maintaining our strong operational margins. We believe that our selection of industry-leading strategic partners and our value to these partners has allowed us to achieve favorable operating results while avoiding significant capital expenditures and limiting corporate overhead.  
  Industry   
 Directory advertising competes with all other forms of media advertising, including television, radio, newspapers, the internet, billboards and direct mail. The entire U.S. advertising market was estimated to be $188.2 billion in 2004, with directory advertising capturing an approximate 8.4% share of the advertising market. Unlike other forms  

6 

of advertising, directory advertising is characterized as primarily directional advertising (which refers to advertising targeted at consumers who are actively seeking information and are prepared to purchase a product or service). Historically, the U.S. directory advertising industry has been dominated by the large publishing businesses of regional Bell operating companies, or RBOCs, and other incumbent local telephone companies.  
   Directory advertising market size    
 It is estimated that the U.S. directory advertising industry generated sales of approximately $15.9 billion in 2004. The industry is characterized by steady and consistent growth with advertising spending increasing at a 3.8%, 5.0% and 4.4% compounded annual growth rate over the last five, ten and fifteen years, respectively. The following chart depicts the estimated size and growth of the U.S. directory advertising industry since 1985:  
  U.S. directory advertising: 1985 - 2004   

Source:   Veronis Suhler Stevenson, Communications Industry Forecast, July 1997 and 2005.    
   
  *Reported Yellow Pages Advertising revenue includes revenue from Publisher s Internet yellow pages operations, and other Internet yellow pages spending.   
   
   Local versus national advertising    
 While directory advertising is sold on both a local and national basis, local advertising from small and medium-sized businesses constitutes the majority of directory advertising spending. As shown in the table below, in 2004, local directory advertising (including internet advertising by local customers) constituted approximately 84.2% of total spending for the U.S. directory advertising industry. This is consistent with our experience, where for the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005, local advertising (including internet advertising by local customers) accounted for approximately 84.4% of our total revenue.  

7 

Local versus national U.S. directory advertising: 1999 - 2004   

Source:   Veronis Suhler Stevenson, Communications Industry Forecast, July 2005.  
  Includes the directory businesses and print publisher's Internet Yellow Pages operations.    
      
   Competition within the industry    
 Presently, the industry can be divided into two major groups of directory advertising publishers: the directory businesses of RBOCs and other incumbent local telephone companies such as Cincinnati Bell Telephone, referred to as Incumbent Publishers, and independent publishers such as TransWestern Publishing Company LLC, the U.S. business of Yell Group Ltd. and McLeodUSA Media Group Inc. (which has been acquired by Yell Group Ltd.), referred to as Independent Publishers. Fueled by the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which assured access to telephone subscriber listings at nominal rates, and significant private equity investment, Independent Publishers have begun to consolidate and increase their market share. As shown in the table below, the Independent Publishers  revenues have increased over the last five years, yet the Incumbent Publishers remain the dominant players, with an estimated 81.6% share of total 2004 revenue for the U.S. directory advertising in
dustry.  
  U.S. directory market share: 1999   2004  

Source:   Veronis Suhler Stevenson, Communications Industry Forecast, July 2005.   
   
  (1)   Includes the directory businesses and print publisher's Internet Yellow Pages operations.    
 We believe that Incumbent Publishers maintain higher margins than their Independent Publisher competitors due to their affiliation with the incumbent local telephone service provider, highly recognized brand names, established  

8 

consumer usage, broader distribution, wider geographic coverage and long-term advertiser relationships. Given these advantages, Independent Publishers are forced to compete primarily on price, with advertising rates that are significantly lower than the rates for equivalent products listed by Incumbent Publishers. As a result, Independent Publishers typically have substantially lower EBITDA margins than Incumbent Publishers.  
   Competition with other media    
 We believe that one of the most compelling aspects of yellow pages directories is their ability to weather economic downturns more favorably than other forms of advertising. For example, during the last two recessions, beginning in 1991 and 2001, yellow pages directory advertising was one of the only media segments to show revenue growth. As the table below highlights, U.S. directory advertising industry spending increased 2.9% and 5.4% in 1991 and 2001, respectively, while other major media segments declined.  
  Advertising spending by media category: 1990 - 2004   

Source: Veronis Suhler Stevenson, Communications Industry Forecast, July 1997 and 2005.   
  (1)  
  Includes broadcast television and cable and satellite television; excludes barter syndication.  
  (2)  
  Includes Publisher s Print and Internet Yellow Pages revenue, as well as other-related Internet Yellow Pages revenue for 1999 through 2004.  
 We believe directory advertising is the preferred form of advertising for many small and medium-sized businesses due to its relatively low cost, broad demographic and geographic distribution, enduring presence and high customer usage rates. We believe that yellow pages advertising is attractive to our customers because consumers may view yellow pages directories as a free, comprehensive single source of information. While overall advertising tends to track an economy s business cycle, directory advertising tends to be more stable and does not fluctuate widely with economic cycles due to its preference by small to medium-sized businesses, often as their principal or only form of advertising. Directory advertising is also recession-resistant because failure to advertise in a given directory cannot be remedied until the replacement directory is published, usually one year later. Moreover, most directory publishers, including us, give priority placement within a
 directory classification to their longest-tenured advertisers. As a result, advertisers have a strong incentive to renew their directory advertising purchases from year to year, so as not to lose their priority placement within the directory.  

9 

Long-term growth rates for the U.S. directory advertising industry also compare favorably to most other major media categories with a compounded annual growth rate of 3.8% from 1999 to 2004 versus a 2.7% average compounded annual growth rate during the same period for an aggregate of major forms of media consisting of newspaper, radio and television. According to CRM Associates, it was estimated that in 2002, directory advertising for the top 135 topical directory headings generated a median return on investment of $51 for every $1 spent, as compared to a median return on investment of $34 for newspapers, $19 for radio and $10 for television.  
  The Internet   
 Most major directory publishers, including us, operate an internet-based directory business, or IYP. The U.S. internet yellow pages market represented a small, but growing segment of the total U.S. directory advertising market in 2001 with total revenue of approximately $263 million, and was estimated to grow to $670 million in 2004.  The internet yellow pages that have succeeded in generating advertising revenue have generally been captive ventures of incumbent print directory publishers or have established sales relationships with incumbent directory publishers. Industry sources estimate that 71% of 2004 IYP revenues were generated by print publishers sales operations. Publishers have increasingly bundled online advertising with their traditional print offerings while applying some notional value to the online product. We expect IYP usage to continue to steadily grow in support of overall directory usage.  
  Markets and Directories   
 In 2005, we published sixteen directories, including yellow pages, white pages and other specialty directories, and distributed approximately 3.4 million copies, including 2.4 million yellow pages and 1.0 million white pages directories, to businesses and residences primarily in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area, which includes local communities and counties surrounding Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky. Our directories are generally well-established in their communities and cover contiguous geographic areas to create a strong local market presence and to achieve selling efficiencies. The following table shows yellow pages directory services revenue and other data for the year ended December 31, 2005 for our directories in each area in which we operate:  

(1)  
  Excludes non-print related directory services revenue and white pages, which represented less than 1% of directory services revenue and included a total circulation of 1,029,000  
  (2)  
  Circulation based on initial and planned secondary delivery over life of publication.  

10 

Products   
 Our main product is printed directories, which generated approximately 95.2% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. We also operate an internet-based directory, and offer audiotext and other direct marketing services.  
   Printed directories    
 In 2005, we published sixteen printed directories, consisting of:  
     
  Fourteen directories that contained a combination of yellow pages, business and/or residential white pages for the areas served, as well as display and other paid forms of advertisements;   
     
  One business-to-business directory (the Work Book) that contained yellow pages and business white page listings for select business-to-business and commercial businesses in the Cincinnati-Hamilton and Dayton regions, as well as display and other paid advertisements; and   
     
  One directory that contained only white pages, listing the names, addresses and phone numbers of residences and businesses in the area served, as well as limited paid advertising.  This directory is a contractual obligation with Cincinnati Bell Telephone and does not contribute revenues or expenses to CBD Media except for a fee charged to Cincinnati Bell Telephone for our services.   
 Our directories are designed to meet the advertising needs of local and national businesses and the informational needs of consumers. The diversity of our advertising products enables us to create customized advertising programs that are responsive to specific needs and financial resources of small and medium-sized businesses. Our yellow pages and white pages directories are also efficient sources of buying information for consumers, featuring a comprehensive list of businesses in the local market that are conveniently organized under approximately 2,600 topical directory headings.  
  Yellow pages directories.     We offer every business a basic listing at no charge in the relevant edition of our yellow pages directories. This listing includes the name, address and telephone number of the business and is included in alphabetical order in the relevant business classification. We maintain a database of these listings, which is derived from data supplied daily from Cincinnati Bell Telephone. This database is supplemented with additional information acquired by our sales representatives and customer service employees.  
 For the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 95.2% of our total revenue from the sale of advertising in our yellow pages directories. A full range of paid advertising products are available in our yellow pages directories, as set forth below:  
       
   Listing options.      An advertiser may enhance its complimentary listing in several ways. It may pay to have its listing highlighted or printed in bold or superbold text, which increases the visibility of the listing. An advertiser may also purchase extra lines of text to convey additional relevant business information such as hours of operation or a more detailed description of its business.  
       
   In-column advertising options.      For greater prominence on a page, an advertiser may expand its basic alphabetical listing by purchasing advertising space in the column in which the listing appears. The cost of in-column advertising depends on the size and type of the advertisement purchased. In-column advertisements may include such features as bolding, special fonts, color and graphics.  
       
   Display advertising options  .    A display advertisement allows businesses to include a wide range of information, illustrations, photographs and logos. The cost of display advertisements depends on the size and type of advertisement purchased. Display advertisements are placed at the front of a classification, and are ordered first by size and then by advertiser seniority. This process of ordering provides a strong incentive to advertisers to renew their advertising purchases from year-to-year and to increase the size of their advertisements to ensure that their advertisements receive priority placement. Display advertisements range in size from a quarter column to as large as two pages (a  double truck  advertisement).  

11 

Awareness products.      Our line of  awareness products  allows businesses to advertise in a variety of high-visibility locations on or in a directory. Each directory has a limited inventory of awareness products, which provide high value to advertisers and are priced at a premium to in-column and display advertisements. Our awareness products include:  
   o   
   Cover  .    Premium location advertisements are available on the inside front and back cover and the outside back and front cover of a directory.  
   o   
   Spine  .    Premium location advertisements are available on the spine of select yellow and white pages directories.  
   o   
   Tabs  .    A full-page, double-sided, hardstock, full-color insert that is bound into and separates key sections of the directory. These inserts enable advertisers to achieve awareness and increase the amount of information displayed to directory users.  
   o   
   Tip-On  .    Removable paper or magnet adhered to the front of the directory.  
   o   
   Banners  .    A banner ad sold at the bottom of any page in the Community or Government sections of the print directory.  
   o   
   Ride-Alongs  .    Promotional inserts that are packaged and distributed along with the directories during initial and secondary deliveries.  
   o   
   Talking Yellow Pages  .    An Audiotext product that is bundled and sold as sponsorships at select high usage headings.  
   o   
   Delivery Bag  .    Up to two customers can advertise on the bag used in the initial delivery of all print directories.  
  White pages directory .    State public utilities commissions require Cincinnati Bell Telephone, as the local exchange carrier in its local service area, to publish and distribute a white pages directory to serve the local service area. In March 2002, we entered into a White Pages Publication and Distribution Agreement with Cincinnati Bell Telephone whereby we were appointed Cincinnati Bell Telephone s exclusive agent to sell advertising, manufacture and distribute their white pages directory. By virtue of this agreement, we provide a white pages listing to every residence and business in a given area that sets forth the name, address and phone number of the residence or business in question unless they have requested to be a non-published or non-listed customer. Under this agreement, we also solicit and sell advertising to be included in the white pages directory. This agreement is effective until March 2012 at which time it is ren
ewable at our discretion for a period of an additional ten years.  
  Internet-based directory and electronic products   
 Although we remain primarily focused on our printed directories, we also market an internet-based yellow pages directory (IYP), www.cincinnatibellyellowpages.com, to our advertisers. We believe that cincinnatibellyellowpages.com is the leading internet yellow pages directory in our market. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our internet-based directory services generated approximately 5% of our total revenue and had an average of 370,000 monthly yellow pages searches. All of the listings in our printed directories also appear in our internet-based directory, which is available to users at no additional charge to our advertisers. The content we create for our printed directories, which we also post on our website, as well as the unique content within our semi-custom websites, our packaging of search engine marketing programs, and traffic-generating distribution relationships makes us competitive on the internet.  
 As in our printed directories, businesses may pay to enhance their listings or enhance their listing placement on  cincinnatibellyellowpages.com and for other premium advertising products.  Options that are available on our website include pay per click placements on National search engines, semi-custom web sites, category sponsorships, keyword advertising enhanced listings, replicated print advertisements, website links, banner ads and traffic packages on affiliate IYP platforms. We view our internet-based directory as a complement to our print product rather than as a stand-alone business. We believe that increased usage of internet-based directories will continue to support overall usage of the directory business.  At this time leveraging the key assets of the sales channel and products as a single solution continues to make strategic sense at this time. 

12 

To promote future usage of our internet-based directories, we continue to bundle our internet products with our print advertising products as a single source solution to increase the customer value proposition while supporting rate increases. We also deliver our yellow pages content electronically, including through CD-ROMs and soon through wireless platforms, and will continue to explore new means to gather and deliver our content to consumers to best meet their needs.  
  Sales and Marketing   
 The marketing of directory advertisements is primarily a direct sales business that requires both maintaining existing customers and developing new customers. Renewing customers comprise our core advertiser base, and a large number of these customers have advertised in our directories for many years. In 2005, we retained over 81.5% of our local advertisers from the previous year. We believe that this high renewal rate reflects the importance of our directories to our local customers, for whom yellow pages directory advertising is, in many cases, the primary form of advertising.  
 We have outsourced our direct sales effort to L.M. Berry and Company (a subsidiary of the Bell South Corporation), which we believe to be one of the most experienced sales forces in the U.S. directory advertising industry. Our directory advertising and marketing agreement with L.M. Berry expires in August 2009. L.M. Berry is a sales agency dedicated to the selling of local yellow pages advertising on behalf of incumbent local telephone companies across the United States and currently has offices in 39 states. L.M. Berry handles the sale of local advertising for our yellow and white pages directories, manages our national advertising sale process for these directories and is responsible for all yellow and white pages  pre-press  services.  
 We conduct two major sales campaigns each year, selling both print and internet-based directory advertising to our customers. The first campaign consists of two Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area directories, a Cincinnati city edition and a Northern Kentucky edition, as well as neighborhood underlay directories. The metropolitan campaign delivers its books in June and typically contributes 75% of revenue. The second campaign consists of suburban market directories and a business-to-business directory. The suburban campaign delivers its books in November and typically contributes 25% of our revenue. Each of these campaigns consists of an extended marketing plan, sales canvass and sales campaign.  
 As our exclusive local advertising sales agent, L.M. Berry is required to employ an adequate sales force and support staff to sell our directory advertising and provide customer support to our local advertisers. L.M. Berry provides sales management, clerical and sales support staff to provide these services, as well as artists and graphic designers who are responsible for assisting advertisers to create art copy to be included in their print and internet yellow pages advertisements. L.M. Berry also prepares credit and billing information for us, assists us with the collection of delinquent accounts, and prepares presentations and reports that update us on its sales progress and other marketing information.  
 In addition to our locally-based sales personnel, L.M. Berry manages a separate sales channel to serve our approximately 1,200 national advertisers. National advertisers are typically national or large regional chains, such as rental car companies, insurance companies and pizza delivery businesses, that purchase advertisements in many yellow pages directories in multiple geographical regions. In order to sell to national advertisers, we retain the services of third-party certified marketing representatives, or CMRs. CMRs design and create advertisements for national companies and place those advertisements in yellow pages directories nationwide. Some CMRs are departments of general advertising agencies, while others are specialized agencies that focus solely on directory advertising. The national advertiser pays the CMR, which then pays us after deducting its commission. We have relationships with approximately 200 CMRs and employ one national sales manager to ma
nage our selling efforts to national customers. For the national sales function, L.M. Berry manages order processing, updates and maintains advertising rates, supports CMR relationships and generates sales reports and analyzes national advertising sales performance.  
 With respect to pre-press services, L.M. Berry provides services including ad design and production, page layout, pagination, advertising inventory control, customer acknowledgement preparation and mailing, quality review of final page proofs, production scheduling and provisioning and forwarding of completed directory products to the printer.  

13 

L.M. Berry is compensated for its services on a commission basis, consisting of a base commission and incentive commission. In addition, we pay L.M. Berry an annual prepress fee. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we paid L.M. Berry approximately $15.4 million for its services to us. L.M. Berry s performance is measured through a system of key performance indicators, which monitor our revenue growth, advertiser contact and satisfaction and production cycle time, among other things. Based on the annual results of these key performance indicators, we may terminate the agreement or L.M. Berry may earn additional compensation for exceeding performance levels. In addition, during the term and for one year following the expiration or termination of the agreement, L.M. Berry and its parent company, BellSouth Advertising and Publishing Company, and all of its majority owned subsidiaries may not compete with us in the service area covered by the agreement.  
  Billing and Collection Services   
 In connection with the purchase of the directory publishing assets of Cincinnati Bell Directory from Cincinnati Bell Inc., we entered into a billing and collection services operating agreement with Cincinnati Bell Telephone, the local exchange carrier subsidiary of Cincinnati Bell Inc. Pursuant to this billing and collections services operating agreement, Cincinnati Bell Telephone continues to bill and collect, on our behalf, amounts owed by our customers in connection with our directory services and sweeps cash to us on a daily basis. For customers for whom Cincinnati Bell Telephone is the provider of local telephone service, Cincinnati Bell Telephone bills the customer on the same billing statement that it bills the customer for its local telephone service. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we paid Cincinnati Bell Telephone approximately $1.1 million for its services to us. In addition, Cincinnati Bell Telephone has agreed not to provide similar services to
 any of our competitors during the term of the agreement. This billing arrangement will continue until March 2012, with an automatic renewal for a subsequent ten-year period unless we elect to terminate the agreement prior to the end of the initial term. Either party may also terminate this agreement if the other party commits a material breach that is not cured within sixty days of written notice of the breach. As part of the agreement, Cincinnati Bell Telephone also agreed to meet certain service level requirements with the goal of ensuring high quality service under objectively agreed upon standards. If Cincinnati Bell Telephone fails to meet these service level requirements, we may have the right to receive credits towards the fee payments that we owe under the agreement. Cincinnati Bell Telephone prepares a regular monthly report summarizing its collections and settlements effort and service performance, including service level requirement statistics.  
  Printing, Paper and Distribution   
   Quebecor Agreement    
 Quebecor World Directory Sales Corporation prints all of our directories. Our directories are typically printed two months before delivery. Our current contract with Quebecor began in January 1999 and expires on December 31, 2011, at which time the contract may be extended by mutual agreement for up to two additional years. Under the agreement, Quebecor provides us with printing services, including white pages and miscellaneous photocompilation, plating, presswork, binding and other services for each of our directories. Small size directories are produced by Quebecor in its Waukee, Iowa facility, while full to midsize directories and photocompilation are primarily manufactured at Quebecor s Hazleton, Pennsylvania facility. Quebecor s services are performed in accordance with specifications set forth in the agreement, which we may change upon written notice to Quebecor provided the changes do not materially adversely affect its business and we provide a 
reasonable time to effect the changes. We have the opportunity to access Quebecor s facilities during work hours to review its quality systems and to make observations. Quebecor also agrees to host semi-annual sessions to target quality improvement. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we paid Quebecor approximately $7.3 million for its services to us. Quebecor agreed to indemnify us for third-party intellectual property infringement and certain other claims related to the printing services, including a certain amount of losses or expenses arising out of our customers  claims of errors or omissions in the directories caused by Quebecor.  
   DDA Agreement    
 We have entered into a directory delivery agreement with Directory Distributing Associates, Inc. (DDA), under which DDA distributes our printed directories and other collateral advertising material to consumers in our service territories, including Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana, by hand or mail delivery. The distribution typically commences each May and October of a given year for the June and November sales campaigns, respectively. This agreement which originally expired on December 31, 2005, has been mutually extended for the two (2) one-year extension  

14 

terms as provided for in the Agreement.  The new effective expiration date is December 31, 2007.  We may terminate all or part of the agreement if DDA fails to deliver the directories within the specified time frame or upon a breach of another term, condition or provision of the contract not cured within ten days of receipt of notice of breach. We may also terminate at our convenience upon payment of any amount due to DDA for services provided and costs incurred. During the term, DDA may not distribute any other directory to our customers. As part of its directory distribution services, DDA is responsible for hiring, training, compensating and terminating personnel or contractors used to perform the services, as well as other matters related to such persons or businesses, organizing delivery stations in each delivery area, coordinating shipping and shipping instructions, having and being responsible for delivery equipment, trucks and labor and conductin
g telephone quality checks to monitor performance.  
 We reimburse DDA for direct expenses indicated in the agreement and pay DDA an additional annual fixed fee (negotiated at the beginning of each calendar year) for each metropolitan and suburban distribution. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we paid DDA $1.4 million for their services to us. To measure DDA s performance and ensure that we receive quality service, we have established a system of performance measures, including delivery timing benchmarks, customer satisfaction, claimed possession, delivery quality and delivery packaging that are measured each year. Based on the results of these performance measures, we may grant DDA a contract extension, award it a bonus or terminate the agreement.  
  Customers   
 In 2005, more than 15,000 local businesses purchased advertising in our printed directories. Approximately 80% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 was generated by the sale of advertising in our printed directories to local businesses, which are generally small and medium-sized enterprises.  
 We do not depend to any significant extent on the sale of advertising to a particular industry or to a particular advertiser.  The diversity of our customer base reduces exposure to adverse economic conditions that may affect particular geographic regions or particular industries and provides additional stability in operating results. The table below, which sets forth 2005 information relating to our largest directory headings, demonstrates the diversity of our customer base:  

We enjoy high local advertiser retention rates. From 2000 to 2005, our average annual customer retention rate remained stable at approximately 84%, including the loss of advertisers as a result of business failures, which equaled approximately 5% in 2004. We believe this retention rate compares favorably to the retention rates of our competitors. The loss of advertisers was partially offset by the addition of new customers. Increases in total advertising spending and average dollars spent per advertisement also partially offset any net loss of advertisers.  
 We believe that this low level of turnover reflects a high level of satisfaction among our customers. The training that L.M. Berry and we provide to L.M. Berry s sales representatives emphasizes the fostering of long- term relationships between sales representatives and their customers, and our blend of salary and incentive-based compensation structure with L.M. Berry is more customer-focused by equitably rewarding customer growth and  

15 

new customer acquisition. In addition, our customers often do not reduce or eliminate directory spending during difficult economic periods because the failure to advertise cannot be remedied until the replacement directory is published, usually one year later. Moreover, most directory publishers, including us, give priority placement within a directory classification to long-time advertisers. As a result, businesses have a strong incentive to renew their directory advertising purchases from year-to-year, even during difficult economic times, so as not to lose their placement within the directory.  
  Competition   
 The U.S. directory advertising industry is competitive. We compete with many different advertising and other media, including newspapers, radio, television, the internet, billboards, direct mail and other yellow pages directory publishers. In total, there are five directory publishers we compete against, and we estimate that we have the dominant market share with over 85% of the market revenue.  We compete with these publishers on value, quality, features, distribution and brand.  Additionally, a new competitor, Verizon Information Services (SuperPages brand), entered the Cincinnati marketplace in 2004.  Verizon published two directories in 2004 that overlay our coverage.  While we understand their interest in the Cincinnati market has been sold, we do not know the intentions of the new ownership.   
 In connection with the acquisition, we entered into a licensing agreement and a non-competition agreement with Cincinnati Bell Inc., formerly the sole shareholder of Cincinnati Bell Directory, and a white pages publishing agreement with Cincinnati Bell Telephone. Under the license agreement, we have the exclusive right to the trademark  Cincinnati Bell Directory  in the conduct of our directory business in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area until 2022. We believe the brand recognition afforded to us under the incumbent telephone company s brand differentiates our directories from our independent competitors and provides a competitive advantage that leads to broader distribution, higher usage of our directories by end-users and long-term relationships with our customers.  
 Under the non-competition agreement, which remains in effect until 2012, Cincinnati Bell Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates are contractually prohibited from competing with us in the directory publication business in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area until March 2012. This prohibition extends to our entire telephone directory business in that territory, whether conducted in written or electronic form, or displayed on the Internet or other dissemination device, including all primary, metro and suburban, business to business and underlay; all products and services related to the foregoing; and all Internet initiatives, websites, web hosting, web design and similar activities relating to the foregoing which existed when we acquired the business from Cincinnati Bell Inc.. In addition, if Cincinnati Bell Inc. or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates engages in the directory publishing business (as was conducted immediately prior to our acquisition in Mar
ch 2002) in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area at any time after the expiration of the non-competition agreement in March 2012 or upon any termination of that agreement prior to that time, Cincinnati Bell Inc. is obligated, under the terms of the asset purchase agreement, to pay us 85% of all revenues resulting from such business through the earlier of 2022 or the termination of our license agreement pursuant to its terms. See  Risk Factors The loss of any of our key agreements with Cincinnati Bell Inc. or its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cincinnati Bell Telephone, could have a material adverse effect on our business.   
 Under the white pages publication agreement, we are the exclusive publisher of, and distributor and sales agent for, the white pages directories for Cincinnati Bell Telephone. The agreement commenced in March 2002 and will remain in effect until March 2012 at which time it will automatically renew for an additional ten-year term at our discretion.  
 The internet has emerged as a new medium for consumers and advertisers. Although advertising on the internet still represents a small part of the total advertising market, as yellow pages references migrate to the internet, it will become increasingly important to the directory advertising medium. Most major yellow pages publishers operate an internet-based directory business. We compete through our primary internet site, cincinnatibellyellowpages.com, with these other publishers, with internet portal and search engine sites providing classified directory information, such as Yahoo!, Google and America Online, with other independent IYP s such as Switchboard.com, YellowPages.com and with vertical players, such as Citysearch.com and Zagats.com, some of which have entered into affiliate agreements with other major directory publishers. As a result of the acquisition, we also acquired  

16 

sixteen other relevant domain names which could be used in the conduct of our business. Cincinnati Bell Inc. s prohibition against competing with our business also includes the internet and other dissemination devices.  
  Intellectual Property   
 In 2002, we entered into an agreement with Cincinnati Bell Inc. that allows us to use the widely-recognized Cincinnati Bell directory marks in the conduct of our business in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area. Under this agreement, in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area we have an exclusive (even as to Cincinnati Bell Inc., its parent, subsidiaries and affiliates), royalty-free license to use the trademark and service mark  Cincinnati Bell Directory  and a royalty-free, non-exclusive right to use all of the other trademarks, trade names and service marks which were licensed to Cincinnati Bell Inc. in the 1980s under a set of agreements relating to the December 31, 1983 divestiture of the Bell companies by AT T. The agreement commenced in March 2002 and will remain in effect until March 2012 at which time it will automatically renew for an additional ten-year term at our discretion. Under the agreement, Cincinnati Bell Inc. has the oblig
ation to take all actions reasonably necessary to enforce the marks described in the license agreement.  
 We are also party to a non-exclusive agreement with Cincinnati Bell Telephone Company, whereby we are granted a worldwide, irrevocable license to use Cincinnati Bell Telephone s subscriber list information and subscriber list information updates, for the purposes of publishing directories in any format (electronic or otherwise), and to display the subscriber list information and the subscriber list information updates on any website or other internet or wireless dissemination device, for a scheduled fee plus costs. The agreement commenced in March 2002 and will remain in effect until March 2012 at which time it will automatically renew for an additional ten-year term at our discretion.  
 We believe that the phrase  yellow pages  and the walking fingers logo are in the public domain in the United States.  
  Employees   
 As of December 31, 2005, we employed eleven full-time employees. We consider relations with our employees to be good. 
  Item 1A.  Risk Factors  
 According to a report produced by the Kelsey Group dated March 17, 2004, from 1995 through 2003, the overall usage of printed yellow pages directories in the United States declined, while usage stabilized between 2001 and 2003.  We believe factors such as the increased usage of Internet-based directories and the proliferation of wireless devices offering yellow pages-like content have caused these declines and that these factors may cause further declines in usage, possibly at accelerated rates.  We currently derive substantially all of our revenues from our printed yellow pages directories.  A decline in the usage of our printed yellow pages directories could: 

impair our ability to maintain or increase our advertising prices;  

cause businesses that purchase advertising in our yellow pages directories to reduce or discontinue those purchases and  

discourage businesses that do not purchase advertising in our yellow pages directories from doing so.  
   
 Any of these consequences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, a decline in the number of businesses that purchase advertising from us, whether as a result of the factors described above or other factors, could affect our revenues.  In the past we have experienced such declines and may continue to do so in the future.  We cannot assure you that further declines will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

17 

Our significant dependence on third-party service providers could materially and adversely affect us.  
   
 Substantially all of our operations are outsourced to third-party service providers, and we are dependent upon the performance of third parties for the following key components of our operations: 

sales of advertising;  

printing of directories;  

distribution and delivery of directories; and  

billing and collection  
   
 We must rely on the information and other systems of our third-party service providers, their ability to perform key operations on our behalf in a timely manner and in accordance with agreed levels of service and their ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to perform our work.  A failure in the systems of our third-party service providers or their inability to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts or to retain sufficient qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  For example, L.M. Berry and Company is, and since 1996 has been, our exclusive sales agent for local advertising.  As our exclusive sales agent for local advertising, L.M. Berry expends significant resources and management time in identifying and training its sales representatives and is required to employ an adequate sales force and support staff to sell our directory advertising and to provide c
ustomer support to our local advertisers.  L.M. Berry s ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel depends, however, on numerous factors, including factors that we cannot control.  A loss of significant number of experienced sales representatives would likely result in reduced sales of advertising in our directories and could materially adversely affect our business.  In addition, we are a party to a contract with Quebecor World Directory Sales Corporation for the printing of our directories which expires on December 31, 2011.  Because of the large print volume and specialized binding of directories, there are only a small number of companies in the printing industry that could service our needs.  Accordingly, the inability or unwillingness of Quebecor to provide services to us on acceptable terms or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
   
 While we are parties to long-term contracts with the third partiers who provide key operational services to us, we may not be able to maintain our current relationships with these or any other third-party service providers.  If we were to lose the services of any of our key third-party service providers, we would be required either to hire sufficient staff to perform the provider s services in-house or to find an alternative service provider.  In some cases, such as the printing of our directories, it would be impracticable for us to perform the function internally.  Even when practicable, in the event we were required to perform any of the services that we currently outsource, we may not be able to perform them on a cost effective basis.  In each case, there are a limited number of alternative third-party service providers, if any. 
   
  The loss of any of our key agreements with Cincinnati Bell Inc. or its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cincinnati Bell Telephone Company, could have a material adverse effect on our business.  
   
 In connection with the acquisition of our business from Cincinnati Bell Inc., we entered into a series of contracts with Cincinnati Bell Inc. and Cincinnati Bell Telephone, including, but not limited to, a trademark license agreement, a non-competition agreement, a subscriber list information license agreement, a white pages publication and distribution agreement, a billing and collection services agreement.  An affiliate of Cincinnati Bell Inc., Cincinnati Bell Inc. Holdings, retains a 2.5% equity interest in CBD Holdings.  Under the trademark license agreement, Cincinnati Bell Inc. has granted us a royalty-free, exclusive right to the trademark and service mark  Cincinnati Bell Directory  in our publication area.  In addition, Cincinnati Bell Inc. has granted us a royalty-free, non-exclusive right to use other trademarks, trade names and service marks in our publication area.  The agreement commenced in March 2002 and will remain in effect until March 201
2, at which time it may be automatically renewed for an additional ten-year term at our discretion.  We consider the  Cincinnati Bell  name to have substantial branding value in our publication area.  If we were to lose our right to the  Cincinnati Bell  brand under the license agreement, it could have a material adverse effect on the usage of our directories and on our ability to sell advertising either of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial  

18 

condition.  In addition, the loss of our right to use the  Cincinnati Bell Directory  trademark could constitute an event of default under the senior credit facility. 
   
 Under the non-competition agreement, Cincinnati Bell Inc. has agreed that neither it nor its subsidiaries or affiliates will own, manage, join, operate or control or participate in the ownership, management, operation or control of, or be connected as a director, officer, employee, partner consultant or advisor with, or permit their names to be used by, any business that competes with our business as constituted at the time of the acquisition in our publication territory.  This agreement commenced in March 2002 and will expire in March 2012.  We are entitled to injunctive relief should Cincinnati Bell Inc. breach its obligation not to compete with us.  If Cincinnati Bell Inc. were to breach this agreement and our remedies prove inadequate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
   
 Under the billing and collection services agreement, Cincinnati Bell Telephone bills our customers on our behalf and collects payments from them.  Our contract with Cincinnati Bell Telephone commenced in March 2002 and continues until March 2012, with an automatic renewal for a subsequent ten-year period unless we elect to terminate the agreement prior to the initial term.  If Cincinnati Bell Telephone were unable or unwilling to provide billing and collection services and we were unable to promptly transition to a new billing system or to an alternative service provider, we may not be able to collect our unpaid receivables which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow.  We believe our collection efforts are enhanced because Cincinnati Bell Telephone collects on our behalf and therefore our inability to use Cincinnati Bell Telephone would have a material adverse effect on our business. 
   
 Under the white pages publication agreement, we are the exclusive publisher of, and distributors and sales agent for, the white pages directories for Cincinnati Bell Telephone.  The agreement commenced in March 2002 and will remain in effect until March 2012 at which time it will automatically renew for an additional ten-year term at our discretion.  If Cincinnati Bell Inc. were to breach this agreement and our remedies prove inadequate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
   
 If Cincinnati Bell Inc. or Cincinnati Bell Telephone were to seek protection under the U.S. bankruptcy laws, our agreements with Cincinnati Bell Inc. or Cincinnati Bell Telephone, as the case may be, could adversely affected.  For example, Cincinnati Bell Inc. or Cincinnati Bell Telephone could seek to reject their respective agreements with us as executory contracts under U.S. bankruptcy law.  If the bankruptcy court were to hold that any such contract was executory, Cincinnati Bell Inc. or Cincinnati Bell Telephone, as the case may be, could void its obligations under the contract.  While we might have a claim for damages against Cincinnati Bell Inc. or Cincinnati Bell Telephone in this circumstance, such damages, if any, may not be sufficient to compensate us for the loss of any rejected contract.  Moreover, in the case of the license agreement and the non-competition agreement, our inability to enforce our rights under those agreements could cause irreparable dam
age to our business.  Our collection of cash under the billing and collection services agreement also could be adversely affected if a bankruptcy court, in a case involving Cincinnati Bell Telephone as a debtor, were to rule that amounts collected on our behalf by Cincinnati Bell Telephone became property of Cincinnati Bell Telephone prior their payment to us.  In that event, the bankruptcy could determine that (1) any amounts (a) billed but not collected prior to the commencement of the bankruptcy case, or (b) collected but not remitted to us prior to the commencement of the bankruptcy case were property of Cincinnati Bell Telephone for which we would have only an unsecured claim and (2) any amounts paid to us by Cincinnati Bell Telephone during the 90-day period prior to the bankruptcy could be recovered from us as a preference.  In addition, we could experience delays in obtaining payment of amounts that Cincinnati Bell Telephone collects on our behalf after such a bankruptcy filings. 
   
  We focus exclusively on the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area, and consequently we may be subject to greater business risk than more geographically diversified directory publishers.  
   
 Our directory publishing services are concentrated in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area, and we do not expect that we will expand our operations in the foreseeable future.  As a result, we will likely continue to be entirely dependent upon our Cincinnati-Hamilton operations for all of our cash flow.  Because our operations focus on a single market, we may be subject to greater risks than a geographically diversified directory publishing company as a result of: 

19 

a downturn in local or regional economic conditions;  

an increase in competition in our area;  

changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations; and  

natural and other disasters in our area  
   
  Competition from other directory publishers and other forms of advertising media could materially and adversely affect us.  
   
 We derive substantially all our revenues from the sale of advertising which is placed in our printed directories, our electronic directories on CD-ROM or on  www.cincinnatibellyellowpages.com , our Internet-based directory.  In the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area, we compete with a number of independent directory publishers, including Yell Group plc.  Our Internet-based directory competes with other yellow pages publishers  Internet-based directories, Internet portal sites providing classified directory information, such as Yahoo!, Google and America Online, with pure-play independent Internet-based yellow pages such as Switchboard.com and Yellowpages.com and with vertical players such as Citysearch.com and Zagat.com some of which have entered into affiliate agreements with other major directory publishers.  In the future, other directory publishers could elect to publish directories in the Cincinnati market and other competitors to our Internet-based dire
ctory could emerge.  A new competitor, Verizon Information Services (SuperPages brand), began selling print advertising in the Cincinnati marketplace during the first quarter of 2004.  They published two directories in September 2004 that overlay our coverage area.  While we understand their interest in the Cincinnati market has been sold, we do not know the intentions of the new ownership.  We may not be able to compete effectively with any of our existing or future competitors, may of which will have greater resources than we do.  In addition, we also compete against other media, including newspapers, radio, television, the Internet, billboards and direct mail, for advertising, and we may not be able to compete successfully against these and other media for such advertising. 
   
  A decline in the dominance of Cincinnati Bell Telephone Company could adversely affect our business.  
   
 The Telecommunications Act of 1996 effectively opened local telephone markets to increased competition.  Consequently, Cincinnati Bell Telephone may not remain the dominant local telephone service provider in its local service area.  If Cincinnati Bell Telephone were no longer the dominant local telephone service provider in its local service area, we may not realize some of the anticipated benefits under our trademark license agreement, subscriber list information license agreement and billing and collection services agreement with Cincinnati Bell Telephone.  A decrease in the benefits we realize from these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
   
  Fluctuations in the price of paper could adversely affect our cost of revenue, results of operations and cash flows.  
   
 The principal raw material used in producing our printed directories is paper.  For the year ended December 31, 2005, paper costs comprised approximately 4.9% of our net revenue and 12.9% of our cost of revenue.  We obtain our supply of paper through Quebecor under our agreement with it for the printing and binding of our directories, although we retain the right to purchase paper from other providers.  Under the Quebecor agreement, we have the option to purchase paper at prevailing spot market prices or lock in a fixed price for a two-year period.  As of December 31, 2005 we had elected to purchase paper at prevailing spot market prices.  We do not engage in hedging activities to limit our exposure to paper price increases.  The price of paper may fluctuate significantly in the future.  Changes in the supply of, or demand for, paper could affect delivery times and prices.  We may not be able to continue to purchase paper at reasonable prices and 
any increases in the cost of paper may have a material adverse effect on our cost of revenue, results of operations and cash flows. 
   
  Our practice of extending credit to small and medium-sized businesses may result in sales adjustments and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  
   
 For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 83% of our net revenue was generated through the sale of advertising to local businesses, which are generally small and medium-sized businesses.  In the ordinary course of 

20 

our directory operations, we extend credit to these customers for advertising purchases.  As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 15,000 customers to which we extended credit with an average amount due per customer of approximately $644.  Full collection of delinquent accounts can take many months or may never occur.  For the year ended December 31, 2005, sales adjustments for our customers amounted to $3.5 million, or approximately 4% of our revenue.  Small and medium-sized businesses tend to have fewer financial resources and higher rates of failure than do larger businesses.  Although our historical sales adjustments have been approximately 4.4%, our practice of extending credit to small and medium-sized businesses may result in significantly higher sales adjustments in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 
   
  Our sales of advertising to national accounts is coordinated by third parties that we do not control.  
   
 Approximately 16% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 was derived from the sale of advertising to national or large regional chains, such as rental car companies, automobile repair shops and pizza delivery businesses, that purchase advertising in several of our directories.  We sell advertising to these accounts through approximately 220 certified marketing representatives, or CMRs.  CMRs are independent third parties that act as agents for national companies, design their advertisements, arrange for the placement of those advertisements in directories and provide billing services.  Our relationships with our national and large regional advertisers depend significantly on the performance of these third-party CMRs whom we do not control.  Any decline in the performance of the CMRs with whom we contract could harm our ability to generate revenue from our national and large regional accounts and could have a material adverse effect on our results of 
operations. 
   
  Given our limited number of employees, the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business due to their specific knowledge associated with CBD Media the yellow pages industry.  
   
 Our current management team has over 50 years combine experience.  Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers, Douglas A. Myers, John P. Schwing and David D. Miller, each of whom has served in the management of our business for many years and has relationships with one or more of our strategic partners.  We believe that the loss of one or more of these individuals could have material adverse effect on our business.  While these key individuals each have a five-year employment agreement, effective March 7, 2002 in the case of Mr. Myers and March 8, 2003 in the cases Messrs. Schwing and Miller, they do represent three of eleven employees, or 27% of the Company s workforce. 

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  
 The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved.  
  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
 The table below provides a summary of our leased facilities as of December 31, 2005. Currently, we do not own any real property.  

We consider our properties to be in good condition generally and believe that our facilities are adequate to meet our anticipated requirements.  

21 

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
 From time to time, we are a party to litigation matters arising in connection with the normal course of our business. In many of these matters, plaintiffs allege that they have suffered damages from errors or omissions or improper listings contained in directories published by us. Although we have not had notice of any such claims that we believe to be material, any pending or future claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or cash flows.  
 In addition, we are exposed to defamation and breach of privacy claims arising from our publication of directories and our methods of collecting, processing and using personal data. The subjects of our data and users of data that we collect and publish could have claims against us if such data were found to be inaccurate, or if personal data stored by us was improperly accessed and disseminated by unauthorized persons. Although we have not had notice of any material claims relating to defamation or breach of privacy claims to date, we may become party to litigation matters that could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
    ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITIES HOLDERS   
 No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005. 
    PART II   
    ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
 There is no established public trading market for CBD Media s membership units, and it is not expected that such a market will develop in the future. As of December 31, 2005, CBD Media had 24,046 membership units issued and outstanding.  All of the issued and outstanding equity interests of CBD Media LLC are owned by CBD Holdings. CBD Investor, which is owned by certain affiliates of Spectrum Equity Investors, owns membership interests in CBD Holdings that represent approximately 95% of the economic interests of CBD Holdings (assuming full vesting of the issued and outstanding Class C units) and 100% of the voting power of CBD Holdings. The remainder of the membership interests in CBD Holdings are owned by an affiliate of Cincinnati Bell Inc., Douglas A. Myers, John P. Schwing, David D. Miller and other members of our management. CBD Media is the sole stockholder of CBD Finance, Inc.  
 Distributions on CBD Media s membership units are governed by the Limited Liability Company Agreement.  
    ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
 The following table sets forth for the periods indicated selected historical consolidated financial data for the Company. The following selected historical consolidated financial data is qualified by the more detailed consolidated financial statements of the Company and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report and should be read in conjunction with such consolidated financial statements and notes and the discussion under  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  included elsewhere in this annual report.  
 The consolidated statement of operations data for the periods ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, and March 7, 2002, and balance sheet data as of December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, and March 7, 2002 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements.  

22 

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
  Overview   
  The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations covers periods prior and subsequent to our acquisition of the directory publishing business assets of Cincinnati Bell Inc.. We have operated as a stand-alone company since our acquisition of these assets on March 8, 2002. The acquisition has been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.   
 We are the twelfth largest directory publisher in the United States, based on 2004 revenue, and are the exclusive directory publisher for Cincinnati Bell branded yellow pages. We service the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area, which is the 23 rd  largest metropolitan area in the country according to the most recent U.S. Census. We believe our directories captured an 87% share of the 2005 total directory advertising spending in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area. In 2005, we published fifteen yellow pages directories and distributed over 2.4 million yellow pages directories to businesses and residences. We also offer integrated internet-based directory services to our consumers through the cincinnatibellyellowpages.com web site. In addition, we publish the white pages for Cincinnati Bell Telephone, the incumbent local exchange carrier in the Cincinnati-Hamilton metropolitan area for over 100 years, for whom we distributed 1.0 million copies in 2
005. We generate our revenue primarily through the sale of advertising, and in 2005 had more than 15,000 local advertising customers consisting primarily of small and medium-sized businesses, as well as approximately 1,200 national advertisers.  
 We acquired our directory publishing business in March 2002 from Cincinnati Bell Inc., the owner and operator of Cincinnati Bell Telephone. The acquisition has been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.  Our acquisition of the assets and certain liabilities of the directory publishing business from Cincinnati Bell Inc. is referred to herein as the  acquisition.  
   
 In June 2003, we completed a recapitalization which we refer to as the  2003 recapitalization,  which consisted of the following transactions: 

On June 13, 2003, we entered into a new senior credit facility providing for borrowings in an aggregate principal amount of up to $165.0 million, including a tranche B term loan facility of $160.0 million and a revolving credit facility providing for borrowings of up to $5.0 million.  The tranche B term loan facility was subsequently refinanced in February 2004;  

On June 13, 2003, we issued $150.0 million of 8-5/8% senior subordinated notes due 2011;  

On June 13, 2003, we repaid all of the outstanding borrowings under our former credit facility and terminated that facility;  

23 

On June 16, 2003, we paid approximately $2.9 million to terminate an interest rate swap related to our former credit facility; and  

We made aggregate distributions to our sole equity holder, CBD Holdings, of approximately $128.3 million.  
   
 In February 2004, the Company refinanced its tranche B term loan to adjust its interest rate, maturity date, and eliminate the annual principal reduction requirement.  Prior to the refinancing, we made a principal payment of $8.6 million thereby reducing the outstanding principal balance of the B term loan. 
   
 In October 2004, our parent, CBD Media Holdings LLC ( CBD Holdings ) completed a recapitalization, which we refer to as the  2004 recapitalization .  CBD Holdings issued and sold $100.0 million of 9  % senior notes due 2012 which we refer to as the  senior notes .  In connection with the 2004 recapitalization, we amended the senior credit facility by replacing the existing $130.0 million tranche C term loan with a $153.0 million tranche D term loan.  We distributed approximately $7.0 million of cash on hand and the proceeds of the increased term loan to CBD Holdings.  CBD Holdings then distributed such funds, along with the net proceeds of the senior notes, to its equity holders. 
  Financial Statement Presentation   
  Net Revenue .    We derive over 95% of our net revenue from the sale of advertising in our printed directories, which we refer to as directory advertising revenue. We also provide related services, including internet-based directory advertising, and the production and distribution of the Cincinnati Bell White Pages and the related sale of advertising for Cincinnati Bell Telephone. Growth in advertising revenue is affected by several factors, including growth in the number of advertising customers, increases in the price of advertising, increases in the quantity of advertising purchased per customer and the introduction of additional products that generate incremental revenues. Advertising revenue also may increase through the publication of newly-introduced printed directories.  
 Our financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the amortization method, meaning revenue and expenses are recognized ratably over the life of each directory (a twelve month period), commencing in the month of delivery. We deliver 76% of our directories, constituting approximately 75% of our annual advertising revenue, in June of a given year, and deliver 24% of our directories constituting approximately 25% of our annual advertising revenue in November of a given year. Revenue from internet advertisements is recognized ratably over the twelve-month period we commit to carry the advertisement.  
 Adjustments to revenue are primarily for estimated losses due to claims resulting from publication errors, omissions in customer advertising, customer early terminations or other customer complaints.  They are accrued over the time period for which the associated revenues are billed.  
  Cost of Revenue .    Cost of revenue consists of direct costs associated with the publication of print directories, including sales commissions, paper, printing, transportation, distribution and pre-press production and employee costs relating to each of the foregoing as well as costs of advertising, promotion, marketing, customer billing and collection and internet expenses. Direct costs associated with the publication of print directories are recognized ratably over the life of each directory. Costs not directly associated with the publication of print directories are recognized in the period in which they are incurred.  
 Cost recognition begins in the month of directory delivery and continues on a pro rated basis over the estimated twelve-month life of each directory and is accounted for under the amortization method. Accordingly, our cost of revenue recognized in a given period consists of (1) cash expenditures incurred in the given period and recognized in the given period, such as advertising, promotion and marketing and customer billing and collection expenses; (2) cash expenditures incurred in a prior period, a portion of which are amortized and recognized in the given period; and (3) cash expenditures incurred in the given period, a portion of which are amortized and recognized in the given period and the balance of which are deferred until future periods. Consequently, there will be a difference between the cost of revenue recognized in any given period and the cash costs incurred in the given period, which difference may be significant.  

24 

Cincinnati Bell Telephone is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cincinnati Bell Inc., which, through an affiliate, holds an approximately 2.5% equity interest in CBD Holdings. Cincinnati Bell Telephone provides us with billing and collection services pursuant to a contract. Under this contract, we paid Cincinnati Bell Telephone $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. We had a payable to Cincinnati Bell Telephone of $0.1 million as of December 31, 2005.  For additional information about this contract, see  Business Billing and Collection Services.   
  General and Administrative Expense .    Our general and administrative expense consists of the costs of administrative staff, real estate, information technology, finance, human resources and corporate management and a consulting fee paid to Applegate   Collatos, Inc., an affiliate of Spectrum Equity Investors. All of our general and administrative expense is recognized in the period in which it is incurred.  
  Depreciation and Amortization Expense .    Our depreciation and amortization expense consists primarily of the amortization of intangible assets and, to a lesser degree, the depreciation of property and equipment. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over periods ranging from 10 to 30 years, their estimated useful lives for financial accounting purposes. Property and equipment are depreciated over estimated useful lives of three to five years.  
   Comparison of Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004    
  Net Revenue.    Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $86.8 million, consisting of $68.4 million of local advertising, $14.1 million of national advertising and $4.3 million in internet advertising.  Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $87.7 million, consisting of $70.4 million of local advertising, $13.5 million of national advertising and $3.8 million in internet advertising.  The decrease is due to lower local revenue in 2005.  The lower local revenues were partially offset by an increase in national and internet revenue. 
  Adjustments   Adjustments to revenue for estimated losses due to claims resulting from publication errors, omissions in customer advertising, customer early terminations or other customer complaints were $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.  Adjustments as a percentage of total revenue were 4% for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to 4.5% for the year ended December 31, 2004.   
  Cost of Revenue  Cost of revenue was $32.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $34.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.  Cost of revenue represented 37.7% of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 39.5% of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004.  The decrease is due in part to $1.0 million in lower printing costs as a result of lower revenues.  In addition, in 2004 there were higher marketing costs incurred as management instituted an aggressive advertising program to retain revenue against a new competitor, Verizon, in the market place.  We also incurred $0.9 million of expense relating primarily to a management payout associated with the 2004 recapitalization and certain tax distributions to personnel that are included in the cost of revenue expense classification. 
  General and Administrative Expense  General and administrative expense was $4.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.  The decrease of approximately $2.8 million relates primarily to a management payout associated with the 2004 recapitalization and certain tax distributions to personnel that are included in the general and administrative expense classification.  In addition, we incurred $1.1 million of professional fees in 2004 in connection with the examination of alternative capital structures. 
  Depreciation and Amortization Expense  Depreciation and amortization expense was $25.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $25.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.  The decrease is due to the accelerated amortization method for advertiser related intangible assets. 
  Interest Expense   Interest expense was $23.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $20.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.  The increase is related to higher interest rates. 

25 

Net Income (Loss)  Net Income was $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to net loss of $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.  The increase in net income was the result of lower expenses in cost of revenue and general and administrative costs as previously mentioned.     
   Comparison of Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003    
  Net Revenue   Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $87.7 million, consisting of $70.4 million of local advertising, $13.5 million of national advertising and $3.8 million in internet advertising.  Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $86.3 million, consisting of $70.2 million of local advertising, $12.7 million of national advertising and $3.4 million in internet advertising.  The increase is due to higher internet revenue in 2004.  In addition national revenue in the June 2004 publication was greater than in 2003. 
  Adjustments   Adjustments to revenue for estimated losses due to claims resulting from publication errors, omissions in customer advertising, customer early terminations or other customer complaints were $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.  Adjustments as a percentage of total revenue were 4.5% for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to 4.6% for the year ended December 31, 2003.   
  Cost of Revenue  Cost of revenue was $34.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and $33.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.  Cost of revenue represented 39.5% of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 38.7% of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2003.  The increase is due to higher incremental costs, approximately $0.3 million, associated with increased electronic yellow page revenue.  In addition, there were higher marketing costs incurred as management instituted an aggressive advertising program to retain revenue against a new competitor, Verizon, in the market place.  We also incurred $0.9 million of expense relating primarily to a management payout associated with the 2004 recapitalization and certain tax distributions to personnel that are included in the cost of revenue expense classification. 
  General and Administrative Expense  General and administrative expense was $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.  The increase of approximately $3.6 million was the result of $2.0 million relating primarily to a management payout associated with the 2004 recapitalization and certain tax distributions to personnel that are included in the general and administrative expense classification and an increase of $0.7 million in the management fee.  In addition, we incurred $1.1 million of professional fees in connection with the examination of alternative capital structures. 
  Depreciation and Amortization Expense  Depreciation and amortization expense was $25.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and $26.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.  The decrease is due to the accelerated amortization method for advertiser related intangible assets. 
  Interest Expense   Interest expense was $20.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and $25.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.  The decrease is related to lower interest rate, approximately 1%, on the bank facility which was repriced in February, 2004.  In addition, we continued to lower our outstanding bank facility throughout 2004, until we issued a dividend to our parent in October, 2004. 
  Net Loss  Net loss was $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to net loss of $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.  The decrease in net loss is primarily related to the decrease in interest expense as a result of the lower rate on the senior credit facility and the reduction of the outstanding balance on the senior credit  facility through October offset by higher general and administration expenses.  
  Liquidity and Capital Resources   
 Our principal source of liquidity has been cash flow generated from operations.  The timing of our cash flows throughout the year is reasonably predictable, as our customers typically pay for their advertisements in equal payments over a twelve-month period.  The payment of our material expenses is based on our contractual arrangements and occurs predictably at set times during the year.  Our primary liquidity requirements have been for debt service on the senior credit facility, the senior subordinated notes and related party notes payable and for  

26 

working capital needs.  We have historically generated sufficient cash flow to fund our operations and capital expenditures and to make required debt service payments.  
 Our management believes that cash flow generated from operations will be sufficient to continue to fund our interest and principal payment obligations, working capital requirements and future capital expenditures.  The revolving credit facility provides an additional source of capital to fund these obligations, subject to the restrictions contained in the senior credit facility and the indentures governing the senior notes and senior subordinated notes.  Any future acquisitions may require additional capital, which may be financed through borrowings under the revolving portion of the senior credit facility, the issuance of additional indebtedness or, issuance of equity securities of us or CBD Holdings, net cash provided by operations, other third-party financing or a combination of these alternatives.  Such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. 
   
 Total capital expenditures were $133,000 and $74,000 in 2005 and 2004, respectively.  We anticipate that the amount of capital expenditures will remain at historical levels and will not significantly increase for the foreseeable future. 
   
  Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operations .  Net cash provided by operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, was $27.1 million as compared to $27.3 million for the same period in 2004.  The difference is primarily related to the increase in cash paid for interest of $3.7 million and the $0.5 million decrease in the related party payable due to a payment to Cincinnati Bell Telephone, offset by payments of approximately $2.9 million for a management payout associated with the 2004 recapitalization and certain tax distributions, and approximately $1.1 million in professional fees in connection with the examination of alternative capital structures.  Net cash provided by operations for the year ended December 31, 2004, was $27.3 million as compared to $28.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.  The difference is primarily related to the $0.6 million increase in deferred revenue due to the timing of payments from national advertisers, payments of appr
oximately $2.9 million for a management payout associated with the 2004 recapitalization and certain tax distributions, and approximately $1.1 million in professional fees in connection with the examination of alternative capital structures, offset by the $2.9 million payment made in 2003 to terminate the interest rate swap and the $1.0 million management payout associated with the 2003 recapitalization.  
   
  Net Cash Provided by (Used in)   Financing Activities .  Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2005, was $28.8 million as compared to $36.0 million for the same period in 2004.  The net cash used in financing activities for the 2005 period was the result of pre-payments of $21.0 million on the senior credit facility and distributions to our equity holder of $8.3 million offset by contributions from our equity holder of $0.5 million.  The net cash used by financing activities in the 2004 period was the result of pre-payments of $28.6 million on the senior credit facility, distributions to our equity holder of $29.3 million and proceeds from new borrowings of $23.0 million.  Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $36.0 million, as compared to $38.7 million year ended December 31, 2003.  The net cash used in financing activities in 2003 related primarily to th
e 2003 recapitalization in June, including the repayment of $211.4 million under our former credit facility, distributions to our equity holder of $128.3 million and proceeds from new borrowings of $310 million.  Other components included $10.1 million of debt issuance costs related to the 2003 recapitalization.  
  Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities.  Net cash used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was insignificant.   
  Indebtedness.  In connection with our acquisition of the directory publishing business we incurred indebtedness of $220.0 million under our former credit facility, which was repaid and terminated on June 13, 2003 in connection with the 2003 recapitalization.  On June 13, 2003, we entered into the senior credit facility providing for borrowings in an aggregate principal amount of up to $165.0 million and issued the senior subordinated notes.  The senior credit facility contains financial, negative and affirmative covenants and requirements affecting CBD Holdings, us and our subsidiaries, including the maintenance of ratios measuring consolidated total leverage and consolidated senior leverage to EBITDA (as defined in the senior credit facility) as well as EBITDA (as defined in the senior credit facility) to consolidated interest expense.  The senior credit facility also includes interest rate and similar arrangements that we may enter into with the lenders under the 
senior credit facility and/or the affiliates of those lenders.  In the February 2004 refinancing, we amended the senior credit facility whereby the $160.0 million tranche B term loan facility was replaced with a $150.0 million tranche C term loan facility.  In connection with the  

27 

2004 recapitalization, we executed an amendment to our senior credit facility that, among other things, (i) increased the size of the term loan portion of the senior credit facility by $23.0 million; (ii) replaced the $150.0 million tranche C term loan facility with a $153.0 million tranche D term loan facility; (iii) permitted CBD Holdings to issue the senior notes; (iv) permitted us, so long as there was no default or event of default under the senior credit facility, to make distributions to CBD Holdings necessary to make regularly scheduled payments of interest in respect of the senior notes; (v) so long as there was no default or event of default under the senior credit facility, set aside funds for the distribution to CBD Holdings  equity holders of an amount not to exceed $130 million; (vi) deleted from the senior credit facility the requirement that we maintain a  fixed charge coverage ratio  and modified other financial ratios that we were required to maintain; a
nd (vii) made other amendments and modifications to the senior credit facility related to the issuance of the senior notes by CBD Holdings. 
   
 In connection with the 2003 recapitalization, on June 16, 2003, we paid a breakage fee of approximately $2.9 million to cancel a fixed interest rate swap agreement related to our former credit facility and substantially increased our leverage and significantly increased our liquidity requirements, primarily due to increased debt service obligations.  
   
 In June 2003, also as part of the 2003 recapitalization, we issued the senior subordinated notes.  Interest is payable on the senior subordinated notes on June 1 and December 1 of each year and the senior subordinated notes will mature on June 1, 2011.  The senior subordinated notes were issued pursuant to an indenture containing financial, negative and affirmative covenants and requirements affecting us and our affiliates, including limits on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay distributions or dividends or make other types of restricted payments, sell assets, consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets, enter into transactions with affiliates, create liens and enter into new lines of business. 
   
  Liquidity.   Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, and to fund our working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future.  This, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.  Our liquidity could also be impacted by a decline in usage of printed yellow page directories.  While in the short term any impact could be offset by price increases, in the long term any such impact could limit our ability to meet our financial obligations. 
   
 In June and July 2003 as part of the 2003 recapitalization, we made to CBD Holdings, and correspondingly CBD Holdings made to its equity holders, aggregate distributions of approximately $128.3 million.  As part of the 2004 recapitalization, we made distributions to CBD Holdings of approximately $30.0 million, including $7.0 million from available cash.  CBD Holdings paid a distribution to its equity holders of approximately $127.0 million, consisting of the aforementioned $30.0 million received from us together with the net proceeds from the offering of the senior notes.  Employee equity holders received distributions as follows: 50% (approximately $1.3 million) was paid at closing and the remaining 50% (approximately $1.3 million) escrowed subject to time vesting of three years.  In October 2005, approximately $0.4 million or 33% of the escrowed amount was paid to employee equity holders.  In 2005, we made aggregate distributions of $8.3 million to CBD Holding
s in connection with their annual interest payments on the senior notes.  As a result of these distributions, a significant amount of cash is unavailable to make payments on our indebtedness or on the senior notes.  We have had, and expect to continue to have in the future, limited cash and cash equivalents on hand.  Our primary source of liquidity is, and is expected to continue to be, cash flow generated from operations as well as our ability to borrow up to $5.0 million under the revolving portion of the senior credit facility. 
   
 Based on our current levels of operations, we believe that our cash flow from operations and available borrowings under the senior credit facility will be adequate to meet our liquidity for the foreseeable future.  We cannot assure you, however, that in the long-term our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.  To the extent that such sources were not adequate to fund our liquidity needs, we would need to raise additional capital, restructure our indebtedness or cut costs in order to lower our liquidity needs.  If we consummate an acquisition, our debt service requirements could increase.  We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness
 on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  We will require a significant amount of cash to service our debt, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. 

28 

The following tables outline the required financial ratios for CBD Media to be in compliance with the financial covenants of the term loan facility and CBD Media s ratio as of December 31, 2005: 

Advisory agreement .  We are a party to an advisory agreement dated March 7, 2002 and further amended on June 13, 2003, with a related party, Applegate   Collatos, Inc., or ACI.  This advisory agreement requires us to make quarterly payments of $500,000 to ACI and reimburse ACI for its reasonable expenses.  Pursuant to a letter of instruction effective October 1, 2003, ACI directed us to make quarterly payments to CBD Holdings (capped at $500,000) and without additional payments for reimbursements of expenses.  Such quarterly payments were received by CBD Holdings for the period from October 1, 2003 until September 30, 2004, and then paid by CBD Holdings to ACI.  The letter of instruction has been withdrawn and, pursuant to the advisory agreement, we make quarterly payments of $500,000 to ACI directly and will reimburse ACI for reasonable expenses, effective October 1, 2004. 

29 

Contractual Obligations  
   
 The following table is a summary of our contractual obligations (including interest) as of December 31, 2005: 

__________ 
 (1)  The Company does not believe it has the ability to accurately predict the future interest rate for the variable rate debt.  The Company has presented the anticipated interest at 6.99%, its interest rate at December 31, 2005.  As a portion of our debt bears a variable interest rate, changes in market rates for interest rates can impact our interest expense.  For example, holding the amount of senior credit facility debt outstanding constant, a one percentage point increase in the interest rate would have caused an estimated increase in interest expense of $1.3 million.  Failure to comply with our financial covenants, scheduled interest payments, scheduled principal repayments or any other items of our credit facility could result in the acceleration of the maturity of outstanding debt. 
   
 (2)  We have outsourced our direct sales effort to L.M. Berry and Company (a subsidiary of Bell South Corporation).  Our directory advertising and marketing agreement with L. M. Berry expires in August 2009.  As the required as specified under the contract are variable, we have estimated future payments based on actual payments made to L. M. Berry during the year ended December 31, 2005. 
   
 (3)   We entered into a billing and collection services operating agreement with Cincinnati Bell Telephone, the local exhange carrier subsidiary of Cincinnati Bell Inc.  This operating agreement will continue until March 2012, with an automatic renewal for a subsequent ten-year period unless we elect to terminate the agreement prior to the end of the initial term.   As the required payments as specified under the contract are variable, we have estimated future payments based on actual payments made to Cincinnati Bell Telephone during the year ended December 31, 2005.   Estimated future payments assume the automatic renewal provision as stated in the agreement.  
   
 (4)  Quebecor World Directory Sales Corporation prints all of our directories.  Our current contract with Quebecor expires on December 31, 2011, at which time the contract may be extended by mutual agreement for up to two additional years.  As the required payments as specified under the contract are variable, we have estimated future payments based on actual payments made to Quebecor during the year ended December 31, 2005.    
   
 (5)  We have entered into an advisory agreement with a related party for management services provided to the Company.  We have assumed renewal of the agreement which contemplates annual payments of $2 million.  The annual payments expected have not been disclosed in the table for periods beyond five years. 

30 

(6) 
 We have entered into a directory agreement with Directory Distributing Associates, Inc. to distribute our printed directories and other collateral advertising material in our service territories.  The agreement will continue until December 31, 2007.  As the required payments as specified under the contract are variable, we have estimated future payments based on actual payments made to DDA during the year ended December 31, 2005. 
   
 (7) 
 CBD Media intends to make distributions to CBD Media Holdings in a sufficient amount to allow CBD Media Holdings to make their annual interest payments of $9.25 million on the $100 million of 9  % senior notes due 2012.   
  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   
 Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The application of these principles requires that in certain instances we make estimates and assumptions regarding future events that impact the reported amount of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Predicting future events is inherently an imprecise activity and as such requires the use of judgments. On an ongoing basis, we review the basis for our estimates and will make adjustments based on historical experience, current and anticipated economic conditions, accepted actuarial valuation methodologies or other factors that we consider to be reasonable under the ci
rcumstances. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates.  
 We consider the following policies to be important in understanding the judgments involved in preparing our financial statements and the uncertainties that could affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  
  Revenue recognition .    The sale of advertising in telephone directories published by us is our primary source of revenue. We recognize revenues ratably over the life of each directory using the deferral and amortization method, with revenue recognition commencing in the month of delivery.  
 Revenue from internet advertisements is recognized ratably over the twelve-month period we commit to carry the advertisement.  
  Cost of revenue .    Direct costs related to the publication of print directories, including sales commissions, paper, printing, transportation, distribution and pre-press production and employee costs relating to each of the foregoing are recognized ratably over the life of each directory under the deferral and amortization method, with cost recognition commencing in the month of delivery.  
  Allowance for sales adjustments .   Adjustments to revenue are primarily for estimated losses due to claims resulting from publication errors, omissions in customer advertising, customer early terminations or other customer complaints.  They are accrued over the time period for which the associated revenues are billed.  
  Vendor incentives .    We have long-term contracts with certain vendors under which the vendors pay cash incentives to us for entering into the contracts. These incentives are recorded as deferred income and amortized as a reduction of cost of revenue over the related contract terms. The amount of deferred vendor incentives that are expected to be amortized within one year are recorded as a current liability within other current liabilities. The remaining portion of deferred vendor incentives are recorded within other long-term liabilities.  
  Goodwill and other intangible assets .    Recorded goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at least annually. All other finite lived intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives and are reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144.  

31 

Forward-Looking Statements  
   
 This annual report on Form 10-K includes  forward-looking  statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.  All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this report that address activities, events or development that we expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements give our current expectations and projections relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business.  You can identify there statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.  These statements may include words such as  anticipate,   believe,   could,   estimate,   expect,   intend,   may,   plan,   predict,   project,  and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with an
y discussion of the timing or nature of future operating or financial performance or other events. 
   
 These forward-looking statements are based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us.  Factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by us in those statements include, among others, the following: 

a declining or stagnating usage of printed yellow page directors or a decrease in the number of businesses that advertise with us;  

our ability to maintain relationships with third-party service providers;  

our relationship with Cincinnati Bell Telephone;  

our lack of geographic diversity;  

the effect of competition in local telephone service on Cincinnati Bell Telephone s current dominant position in the local market;  

a decline in the dominance of Cincinnati Bell Telephone;  

any fluctuations in the price of paper;  

the effect of extending credit to small and medium-sized businesses;  

a decline in the performance of third-party certified marketing representatives;  

our ability to maintain assets sufficient to satisfy our creditors  outstanding claims;  

the retention of key employees;  

any national and local economic and business conditions that affect advertising expenditures by businesses and individuals as well as consumer trends in the usage of our principal product; and  

the divergence of the interest of Spectrum Equity Investors and our other investors.  
   
 Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that we will attain these expectations or that any deviations will not be material.  Except as otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation or undertaking to publicly release any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained in this annual report on Form 10-K to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. 

32 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK   
   Our former credit facility required us in specific instances to hedge the interest rate portion of our variable rate debt.  
   
 Interest on the senior subordinated notes issued is charged at a fixed rate. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 53% of our total outstanding debt has a fixed interest rate. Interest rate changes generally do not affect the market value of floating rate debt but do impact the amount of our interest payments and our future earnings and cash flows. Conversely, for fixed rate debt, interest rate changes do not impact future cash flows and earnings, but do impact the fair market value of such debt.  As a portion of our debt bears a variable interest rate, changes in market rates for interest can impact our operating results and cash flows.  For example, holding the amount of senior credit facility debt outstanding constant, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have caused an estimated decrease in annual pre-tax earnings and cash flows of $1.3 million. 
  ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
   The Financial Statements and Supplementary Data required by this item is filed as part of this Form 10-K.  See Index to Financial Statement Information at page F-1 of this Form 10-K. 
  ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
 Not applicable. 
  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  
 The management of CBD Media is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.  CBD Media's internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Company's management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.   
   
 All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitation.  Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.   
   
 An internal control material weakness is a significant deficiency or aggregation of deficiencies, that does not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that material misstatements in financial statements will be prevented or detected on a timely basis by employees in the normal course of their work.  An internal control over financial reporting significant deficiency, or aggregation of deficiencies, is one that could result in a misstatement of the financial statements that is more than inconsequential.   
   
 The management of CBD Media assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and this assessment identified the following material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting.  
   
 The Company determined that the accounting, auditing, control, and oversight functions regarding its financial statements and financial reporting obligations was too centralized to provide adequate and effective controls.  Because of the over-centralization of these functions, the Company determined that the possibility of material misstatements going undetected was greater than a relatively low level.  In order to address this weakness, management will review de-centralizing the preparation and review of its financial statements and reports.   
   
 Because of the material weakness described in the preceding paragraph, management believes that as of December 31, 2005, the Company's internal control over financial reporting was not effective.  

33 

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION  
 None. 
    PART III   
    ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CBD MEDIA  
 The following table sets forth certain information with respect to each of our executive officers and directors.  
         
    Name  
    Age  
 As of 12/31/05 
    Position  
  
   Douglas A. Myers            
   45 
   President and Chief Executive Officer and Director 
  
   John P. Schwing           .. 
   49 
   Vice President Finance and Administration and 
Chief Financial Officer 
  
   David D. Miller           ... 
   45 
   Vice President Sales and Operations 
  
   Brion B. Applegate          . 
   52 
   Director 
  
   Benjamin M. Coughlin          
   33 
   Director 

Douglas A. Myers  became our President and Chief Executive Officer in March 2002. Previously, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of our predecessor, Cincinnati Bell Directory, from February 1999 until March 2002, and also served as Vice President Business Market Operations for Cincinnati Bell Telephone and Cincinnati Bell Inc. from November 2000 to March 2002. Additionally, he served as Vice President Sales   Marketing and Director Marketing   Operations with Cincinnati Bell Directory from 1992 to 1999 and prior to that, he held a variety of marketing and management positions at Cincinnati Bell Telephone beginning in 1982. Mr. Myers has been a director since the acquisition.  
  John P. Schwing  became our Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer in March 2002. Previously, Mr. Schwing was the Vice President of Finance and Administration for Cincinnati Bell Directory from 1992 through March 2002. Mr. Schwing has also had financial responsibility for Cincinnati Bell Messaging Services from 1994 to 1995, Cincinnati Bell Long Distance in 2000, as well as the Information Technology, Human Resources, Legal, Regulatory Affairs, and Public Affairs operating units for Cincinnati Bell Telephone in 2001.  
  David D. Miller  became our Vice President Sales and Operations in March 2002. Mr. Miller joined Cincinnati Bell Directory in 1989 where he served as Director of Yellow Pages Operations from April 1999 until March 2002. He also served as Director-Print Media and Operations, Senior Manager Manufacturing and Distribution, in addition to other product management and business planning management positions.  
  Brion B. Applegate  co-founded Spectrum Equity Investors in 1993, and serves as general partner of various partnerships affiliated with Spectrum. Prior to forming Spectrum, he began his career in the private equity industry in 1979. Mr. Applegate is currently a director of Nassau Broadcasting Partners, Inc., and prior directorships include American Cellular Corp., H.O. Systems, Inc., and PriCellular Corp. He is also President and a director of CBD Investor and a director of CBD Holdings. Mr. Applegate has been a director since the acquisition.  
  Benjamin M. Coughlin  is a Principal at Spectrum Equity Investors, which he joined in 1997. Prior to Spectrum, Mr. Coughlin worked as an Associate at Apax Partners in Munich, Germany, where he was involved with later-stage and buyout opportunities in the technology and information services industries. Mr. Coughlin serves as a director of Security, Inc. He is also Secretary and a director of CBD Investor and a director of CBD Holdings. Mr. Coughlin has been a director since the acquisition.  

34 

Audit Committee Financial Expert  
 Our Board of Directors has not established an audit committee of the Board.  Our Board has determined that we have at least one  audit committee financial expert  (with the meaning of Item 401(h) of Regulation S-K) serving on the Board of Directors, and that director Benjamin M. Coughlin is such an audit committee financial expert.  Mr. Coughlin is not  independent  (as that is used in Item 7(d)(3)(iv) of Schedule 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). 
  Code of Ethics  
 CBD Media has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its executive officers.  A copy of the code of ethics will be provided to any person without charge.  Requests should be made in writing to Douglas Myers at CBD Media LLC, 312 Plum Street, Suite 900, Cincinnati, OH  45202. 
  ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
 The following table sets forth information with respect to compensation for services in all capacities for the last three fiscal years paid to our President and Chief Executive Officer and our two other most highly compensated executive officers serving as executive officers on December 31, 2005, whom we refer to as the Named Executive Officers.  

(1) 
 The value of perquisites and other personal benefits paid did not, in the aggregate, exceed the lesser of $50,000 or 10% of the total annual salary and bonus reported.  
  COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS   
 The Board of Directors receive no compensation for their duties. 
  MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN  
 In connection with the 2003 recapitalization, CBD Investor, an affiliate of Spectrum, established an incentive compensation program for employees of CBD Media, who held equity interests in CBD Holdings at the time of the prior recapitalization.  Pursuant to the program, CBD Investor agreed to provide an incentive pool to these employees of up to $4,000,000.  This incentive amount is subject to vesting over a five-year period and is not payable unless and until a sale by CBD Media of 50% or more of its assets to a third party, a sale by CBD Investor of 50% or more of its interests in CBD Holdings to a third party, a sale by CBD Holdings of 50% or more of the equity interests in CBD Media to a third party of a sale by affiliates of Spectrum of 50% or more of CBD Media  

35 

purchase such interests (a  Spectrum exit event ).  Additionally, in order for any incentive amount to be payable, the aggregate value of the employees  Class C units of CBD Holdings must equal or exceed a threshold amount, but may not exceed a ceiling amount at the time of the Spectrum exit event.  The amount of the incentive pool actually payable at a Spectrum exit event will be determined by subtracting the total value of the employees  equity from the ceiling amount, but in no event shall the incentive pool exceed $4,000,000 in the aggregate.  The current threshold and ceiling amounts are $8,600,000 and $13,250,000 respectively.  Upon consummation of the offering of the outstanding notes the threshold and ceiling amounts were reduced by the distributions received on the Class C units made upon completion of the offering.  The threshold and ceiling amounts are subject to further reduction in the event distributions 
are made on the Class C units in the future, other than tax distributions.  The incentive pool, if payable, will be allocated among the employees based on their relative percentage ownership in CBD Holdings.  For administrative reasons, such amounts will actually be paid by us and CBD Investor will fund all amounts payable through contributions to CBD Holdings, which in turn will be contributed to us. 
 CBD Investor has also agreed that upon a Spectrum exit event, if the value of the Class C units held by employees is between the threshold and ceiling amounts as described above, then CBD Investor will pay Mr. Schwing an amount equal to $350,000. For administrative reasons, such amounts will actually be paid by us and CBD Investor will fund all amounts payable through contributions to CBD Holdings, which in turn will be contributed to us. 
  RESTRICTIONS ON EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTIONS  
 In connection with the October 2004 recapitalization, holders of the Class C units in CBD Holdings were eligible to receive $2.6 million of distributions, $1.3 million of which was paid immediately.  The holders of Class C units will generally vest in and be paid the remaining distributions over a three-year period on each anniversary of the recapitalization subject to continued employment with CBD Media.  In October 2005, CBD Holdings paid $0.4 million or approximately one-third of the remaining $1.3 million to holders of the Class C units.  Upon termination of employment the holder of Class C units will forfeit any unpaid distributions and the forfeited amount will be allocated among the remaining Class C unit holders.  The holders of Class C units will fully vest in the remaining unpaid distributions upon a change in control.  The amount of the distributions is charged to expense over the vesting period. 
  EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS   
   Douglas A. Myers Employment Agreement    
 Under an amended and restated employment agreement entered into with us in connection with the acquisition and subsequent recapitalization, Mr. Myers was retained to serve as our Chief Executive Officer. Under the agreement, Mr. Myers is entitled to receive a minimum base salary in the following amounts through 2008: $350,000 (2004); $400,000 (2005); $425,000 (2006); $450,000 (2007); and $475,000 (2008).  Mr. Myers is also entitled to a bonus under our incentive bonus compensation plan in the following minimum bonus amounts if certain targets are obtained: $125,000 (2004); $150,000 (2005); $175,000 (2006); $200,000 (2007); and $225,000 (2008). Under the agreement, Mr. Myers is entitled to participate during the term of the agreement in medical, health, retirement, welfare and insurance plans available to our senior executives and is entitled to receive from us a matching contribution to his 401(k) plan and life and disability insurance coverage. Mr
. Myers is also entitled to an allowance for use of an automobile and reimbursement of up to $5,000 a year for personal financial and estate planning services (plus taxes incurred), up to $10,000 in legal fees incurred in the negotiation of the employment agreement and up to $25,000 for his initial membership fees to a country club, as well as certain annual membership dues. Under the agreement, Mr. Myers was granted a 1.25% membership interest on a fully diluted basis in CBD Holdings, subject to a vesting schedule of 25% of the interests per year. The agreement continues until September 2008. We are obligated to make a severance payment to him of up to two times his then-current base salary and target bonus under the terms of the agreement in the event Mr. Myers  employment is terminated without cause or if he resigns for good reason.  
   John P. Schwing Employment Agreement    
 Under an employment agreement entered into with us in connection with the acquisition and subsequent recapitalization, John Schwing was retained to serve as our Vice President Finance   Administration and Chief  

36 

Financial Officer. Under the agreement, Mr. Schwing is entitled to receive a minimum base salary in the following amount through 2008: $200,000 (2004); $225,000 (2005); $240,000 (2006); $260,000 (2007); and $285,000 (2008). Mr. Schwing is also entitled to a bonus under our incentive bonus compensation plan in the following minimum amounts if certain targets are obtained: $63,000 (2004); $75,000 (2005); $88,000 (2006); $100,000 (2007); and $115,000 (2008). Under the agreement, Mr. Schwing is entitled to participate during the term of the agreement in medical, health, retirement, welfare and insurance plans available to our employees and is entitled to receive from us a matching contribution to his 401(k) plan and life and disability insurance coverage. Mr. Schwing is also entitled to an allowance for use of an automobile. Under the employment agreement, Mr. Schwing was granted a 0.276% membership interest on a fully diluted basis in CBD Holdings, su
bject to a vesting schedule of 25% of the interests per year. The employment agreement continues until September 2008. Mr. Schwing is prohibited from competing with us during the term of his employment and for a period of one-year following termination of his employment. We are obligated to make a severance payment to him of up to two times his then-current base salary and target bonus under the terms of the agreement in the event Mr. Schwing s employment is terminated without cause.  
   David D. Miller Employment Agreement    
 Under an employment agreement entered into with us in connection with the acquisition and subsequent recapitalization, David Miller is entitled to receive a minimum base salary in the followings amounts through 2008:  $150,000 (2004); $165,000 (2005); $180,000 (2006); $190,000 (2007); and $200,000 (2008).  Mr. Miller is also entitled to a bonus under our incentive bonus compensation plan in the following amounts if certain targets are obtained:  $63,000 (2004); $75,000 (2005); $88,000 (2006); $100,000 (2007); and $115,000 (2008). Under the agreement, Mr. Miller is entitled to participate during the term of the agreement in medical, health, retirement, welfare and insurance plans available to our employees and is entitled to receive from us a matching contribution to his 401(k) plan and life and disability insurance coverage. Mr. Miller is also entitled to an allowance for use of an automobile. Under the employment agreement, Mr. Miller was granted 
a 0.276% membership interest on a fully diluted basis in CBD Holdings, subject to a vesting schedule of 25% of the interests per year. The employment agreement continues until September 2008. Mr. Miller is prohibited from competing with us during the term of his employment and for a period of one-year following termination of his employment. We are obligated to make a severance payment to him of up to two times his then-current base salary and target bonus under the terms of the agreement in the event Mr. Miller s employment is terminated without cause.  
  401(K) AND PROFIT SHARING PLAN   
 CBD Media currently sponsors a defined contribution benefit plan covering substantially all management and occupational employees.  The company has 100% participation by all employees.  Under the plan, employees may contribute a percentage of their annual compensation to the plan up to a maximum percentage identified in the plan.  The annual dollar contribution by the employees is limited to a maximum amount determined by the Internal Revenue Service.  CBD Media matches a percentage of employee contributions, and those funds are invested by each employee in a variety of investment options with the plan s administrator.  CBD Media contributed its share of matching contributions to the plan amounting to $75,000 in 2005 and $74,000 in 2004. 
  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan  
 Effective January 1, 2004, CBD Media established a supplemental executive retirement plan (SERP), which is a non-qualified deferred compensation plan.  Participants may elect to defer receipt of compensation under the SERP until termination of employment, death, disability, change of control (unless assumed by a successor) or termination of the SERP.  CBD Media contributes a matching contribution equal to 50% of the participant s compensation deferral.  The participants  deferrals and CBD Media s contributions are credited with interest equal to the greater of (1) 5% or (2) the prime rate plus 2%.  The SERP is an unfunded plan, as no assets have been set aside for the benefit of participants.  As a result, participants only have an unsecured unfunded promise to pay and will be treated as general unsecured creditors in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of CBD Media.  The financing transactions did not const
itute a change of control under the SERP.  

37 

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT   
 All of the issued and outstanding equity interests of CBD Media LLC are owned by CBD Holdings. CBD Investor, which is owned by certain affiliates of Spectrum Equity Investors, owns membership interests in CBD Holdings that represent approximately 95% of the economic interests of CBD Holdings (assuming full vesting of the issued and outstanding Class C units) and 100% of the voting power of CBD Holdings. The remainder of the membership interests in CBD Holdings are owned by Cincinnati Bell Inc. Holdings, an affiliate of Cincinnati Bell Inc., Douglas A. Myers, John P. Schwing, David D. Miller and other members of our management. CBD Media is the sole stockholder of CBD Finance, Inc.  The following table sets forth information with respect to the beneficial ownership of the membership units of CBD Holdings as of March 7, 2006, by:  
     
  each person known to own beneficially more than 5% of any class of CBD Holdings  membership units;   
     
  each of our directors and Named Executive Officers; and   
     
  all of our directors and executive officers as a group.   
 Each unitholder possesses sole voting and investment power with respect to the units listed, unless otherwise noted. Unless otherwise noted, the address of each unitholder is c/o CBD Media LLC, 312 Plum Street, Suite 900, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202.  
 
 ____________ 
   
 (1) 
 Holders of Class C units are not entitled to vote with respect to their Class C units. The number of units indicated reflects all issued and outstanding Class C units each of which have vested as of March 7, 2006.  John Schwing was granted 806 Class C units on June 13, 2003.  50% of these units have vested. 
 (2) 
 Spectrum Equity Investors III, L.P., SEI III Entrepreneurs  Fund, L.P. Spectrum III Investment Managements  Fund, L.P., Spectrum Equity Investors IV, L.P., Spectrum Equity Investors Parallel IV, L.P., and Spectrum IV Investment Manager s Fund, L.P. (the  Spectrum Partnerships ) collectively own all of the outstanding shares of CBD Investor.  The address for each of these entities is c/o Spectrum Equity Investors, 333 Middlefield Road, Suite 200, Menlo Park, California, 94025. 
 (3) 
  Mr. Applegate is also a general partner of two of the Spectrum Partnerships and a general partner of each of the general partners of the other four Spectrum Partnerships. He is also President and a director of CBD Investor. Voting and disposition of the membership units owned by CBD Investor is controlled indirectly by the general partners of the Spectrum Partnerships, and requires the approval of two or more individual general partners. In his capacity as general partner, Mr. Applegate may be deemed to share beneficial ownership of the membership units shown as beneficially owned by CBD Investor, but disclaims such beneficial ownership.  
 (4) 
 Mr. Coughlin is also Secretary and a director of CBD Investor. He does not directly or indirectly have or share voting or investment power or have or share the ability to influence voting or investment power over the membership units shown as beneficially owned by CBD Investor.  

38 

(5)   The address for this director is c/o Spectrum Equity Investors, 333 Middlefield Road, Suite 200, Menlo Park, California, 94025. 
    ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   
    Limited Liability Company Agreement of CBD Media Holdings   
 In connection with the acquisition of the directory publishing business of Cincinnati Bell Directory, CBD Investor, Inc. (an entity controlled by the Spectrum entities and of which Brion B. Applegate and Benjamin A. Coughlin are directors), Broadwing Holdings Inc., Douglas A. Myers, John P. Schwing, David D. Miller and our other management employees (who we collectively refer to as  management members ) entered into a limited liability company agreement for CBD Holdings, which is the sole member of our company. The limited liability company agreement of CBD Holdings defines the members  rights with respect to voting, ownership and transfer of their interests in CBD Holdings. The limited liability company agreement allocates the membership interests in CBD Holdings among these parties. CBD Investor and Cincinnati Bell Inc. Holdings both hold interests in two classes of membership units, and management members hold interests in a separate class of un
its. CBD Investor is the only party that is entitled to vote with respect to its units. Approval of actions of CBD Holdings requiring a vote of a group of members must receive a majority vote of the particular class(es) of members entitled to vote. Under this agreement, CBD Investor and Cincinnati Bell Inc. Holdings have made capital contributions to CBD Holdings for which they will not be entitled to receive interest paid on such contributions. Certain amendments of the CBD Holdings limited liability company agreement which adversely and/or disproportionately affect the interests of Cincinnati Bell Inc. Holdings and/or the management members require the consent of Cincinnati bell Inc. Holdings and/or management members.  
 The voting members of CBD Holdings elect three directors to its board. Currently, the directors of CBD Holdings are Brion B. Applegate, Benjamin M. Coughlin and Douglas A. Myers. To date, no independent director has been appointed to CBD Holdings  board.  
 No members of CBD Holdings may transfer their membership interests if the transfer causes a termination of CBD Holdings for income tax purposes, causes CBD Holdings to become a publicly traded partnership under the Internal Revenue Code, subjects CBD Holdings to regulations under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisors Act of 1940 or ERISA laws or violates applicable laws, unless the voting members of CBD Holdings authorize a transfer by majority vote. Unless a transfer is otherwise permitted under the limited liability company agreement, any transfer of membership interests requires approval by the majority vote of the voting members, which approval may be withheld in the sole and absolute discretion of such members.  
   Tag-along and Drag-along Rights    
 If the voting members of CBD Holdings elect to sell some or all of their membership interests to a third-party in a transaction that is not a permitted transfer under the limited liability company agreement, the voting members may require all of the other members to sell an equal proportion of their interests to such third-party on the same terms and conditions and the other members shall have the right to require such third-party to purchase an equal proportion of their interests on these terms.  
   Limited Liability Company Agreement of CBD Media LLC    
 Our limited liability company agreement defines the rights of our sole member, CBD Holdings, with respect to management, distributions (including tax distributions) and indemnification. Our board is composed of three directors, elected by CBD Holdings, who manage all aspects and decisions of our business and affairs. Currently, the directors are Brion B. Applegate, Benjamin M. Coughlin and Douglas A. Myers. Under the agreement we are obligated to make distributions to CBD Holdings at times and in the aggregate amounts determined by our directors. In addition, we are required to make a tax distribution to CBD Holdings in an amount equal to 44% of our theoretical net taxable income for each fiscal year.  
 The agreement limits the liability of all of CBD Media s directors, officers and members to CBD Media and any member of CBD Media for losses incurred on behalf of CBD Media.  In addition, CBD Media is obligated to indemnify any member, officer or director of CBD Media against any liability or loss suffered and expenses  

39 

reasonably incurred on behalf of CBD Media in good faith.  Indemnification under the agreement is to be provided out of and to the extend of CBD Media s assets only, and no member of CBD Media has any personal liability with respect to such indemnity. 
  Advisory Agreement   
 In connection with the acquisition, Applegate   Collatos, Inc., or ACI, a firm co-owned by Brion B. Applegate, one of our directors, was engaged to provide advisory services and financing advice, as well as, financial, managerial and operational advice in connection with our day-to-day operations. Effective as of June 13, 2003, we pay ACI an annual management fee of $2,000,000 for its services, which is payable in quarterly installments, and will reimburse ACI for additional reasonable expenses upon its request.  The agreement is for an indefinite period and may only be terminated or amended by mutual consent of the parties. We agree to indemnify and hold harmless ACI and its affiliates, officers, partners, directors, employees, agents and other controlling persons from losses arising in connection with the acquisition or the engagement to provide advice under the agreement to us. We also agreed that the indemnified persons will not be liable to us or ou
r security holders or creditors as a result of the engagement or the performance of services unless such losses are determined by a judge to have resulted from such person s bad faith or gross negligence.  
 For the year ended December 31, 2005, we paid ACI a management fee of $2,000,000.  
  2004 Recapitalization  
 In October 2004, CBD Holdings and CBD Holdings Finance, Inc. issued the senior notes.  In connection with the issuance of the senior notes, CBD Media amended the senior credit facility by increasing the size of the term loan portion of the senior credit facility by $23.0 million.  CBD Media distributed approximately $7.0 million of cash on hand and $23.0 million of net proceeds of the increased term loan to CBD Holdings, which , in turn, distributed such funds, along with the net proceeds of the senior notes offering of approximately $97.0 million, to its equity holders. 
 In connection with the October 2004 recapitalization, holders of the Class C units in CBD Holdings were eligible to receive $2.6 million of distributions, $1.3 million of which was paid immediately.  The holders of Class C units will generally vest in and be paid the remaining distributions over a three-year period on each anniversary of the recapitalization subject to continued employment with CBD Media.  In October 2005, CBD Holdings paid $0.4 million or approximately one-third of the remaining $1.3 million to holders of the Class C units.  Upon termination of employment the holder of Class C units will forfeit any unpaid distributions and the forfeited amount will be allocated among the remaining Class C unit holders.  The holders of Class C units will fully vest in the remaining unpaid distributions upon a change in control.  The amount of the distributions is charged to expense over the vesting period. 
  ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  
 Aggregate fees billed to us for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 by our principal accounting firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, the member firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, and their respective affiliates (collectively,  Deloitte   Touche ): 
  Audit Fees    Audit fees billed for 2005 and 2004 were $136,000 and $553,000, respectively.  These amounts include fees for the assistance related to the our various filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the issuance of comfort letters and auditor consents. 
  Audit-Related Fees    We had no audit-related fees or services. 
  Tax Fees    Billings for tax services were $22,850 and $46,950 for 2005 and 2004, respectively.  This amount includes fees paid for assistance with federal, state and local tax compliance matters and advisory services with respect to tax implications of the 2004 recapitalization.  All of the work performed in connection with this engagement was performed by full-time, permanent employees of the principal accountant. 

40 

All Other Fees    We had no other fees or services. 
 Our Board of Directors functions as our audit committee.  Our policy is to require our Board of Directors to pre-approve audit and non-audit services. 
    ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
 (a) (1) 
 Financial Statements. 
   
 The Company s financial statements included in this Form 10-K are listed in the Index to Financial Statements on page F-1.  
   
 (a) (2) Exhibits 

41 

42 

SIGNATURES   
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  
   
 CBD MEDIA LLC 

By: 
  /s/ Douglas A. Myers  
 Name: 
 Douglas A. Myers 
Title: 
 President and Chief Executive Officer  
   
 Dated: March 30, 2006 
   
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on March 30, 2006. 
   
   Signature   
   Title   
   
      / s /  Douglas A. Myers 
 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
 ____________________________ 
 (principal executive officer) 
            Douglas A. Myers 

/ s /  John P. Schwing 
 Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer 
 ____________________________ 
 (principal financial and accounting officer) 
         John P. Schwing 

/ s /  David D. Miller 
 Vice President of Sales and Operations 
 ____________________________ 
         David D. Miller 

/ s /  Brion B. Applegate 
 Director 
 ____________________________ 
         Brion B. Applegate 

/ s /  Benjamin M. Coughlin 
 Director and Secretary 
 ____________________________ 
         Benjamin M. Coughlin 

43 

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

F-1 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
 To the Board of Directors and Member of CBD Media LLC 
 We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of CBD Media LLC, (a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBD Media Holdings LLC) and subsidiary (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, member s capital (deficit), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audits. 
 We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting.  Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  Accordingly, we express no such opinion.  An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant est
imates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
 In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
  DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP  
 Cincinnati, Ohio 
 March 31, 2006 

F-2 

CBD MEDIA LLC   
   
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   
  DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004    
  (Dollars in Thousands)   

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

F-3 

CBD MEDIA LLC  
   
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS   
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   
  (Dollars in Thousands)   

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

F-4 

CBD MEDIA LLC  
   
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF MEMBER S CAPITAL (DEFICIT)  
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  
  (Dollars in Thousands)   

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

F-5 

CBD MEDIA LLC  
   
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  
  (Dollars in Thousands)   

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

F-6 

CBD MEDIA LLC  
   
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  
  (Dollars in Thousands)  
   
  1.  
  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES   
   
   Nature of Business   CBD Media LLC (the  Company ) is located in Cincinnati, Ohio. The Company publishes yellow page directories and sells directory advertising and information services in the Greater Cincinnati area, including Northern Kentucky and Southeast Indiana. These services are available to customers in the form of a traditional printed directory, an internet directory website   www.cincinnatibellyellowpages.com   and an electronic directory on CD-ROM.  The Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CBD Media Holdings LLC ( CBD Holdings ). 
   
 On May 21, 2003, the Company formed a wholly-owned finance subsidiary, CBD Finance, Inc. ( CBD Finance ), which is incorporated in the state of Delaware. In June 2003 CBD Finance co-issued senior subordinated notes, joint and severally, with the Company. Separate financial statements for CBD Finance are not provided because CBD Finance does not have independent assets or operations from the Company.  
   
 Substantially all of the Company s operations are outsourced to third-party service providers, and it is dependent upon the performance of third parties for the following key components of its operations: sales of advertising, printing of directories, distribution and delivery of directories, and billing and collection. The Company has executed long-term contracts with these third-parties. A change in these suppliers could cause a disruption in the Company s business due to the time it would take to locate and qualify an alternate supplier for these services.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents   Cash and cash equivalents represent cash on hand and demand deposits with banks and short-term, highly liquid investments.  
   
   Property and Equipment   Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives ranging from three to five years.  
   
   Goodwill and Intangible Assets   At inception the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standard No. ( FAS ) 142  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  Recorded goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter. Other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance with FAS 144  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  All other intangible assets except for advertiser related assets are amortized using the straight-line amortization method. Advertiser related assets are amortized using an accelerated amortization method that matches the expected benefit derived from the advertisers. The accelerated amortization method used is a method that allocates amortization expense in proportion to each year s expected revenues to the total expected revenues over the thirty year life of the 
Company s advertisers. Based on the Company s experience, advertiser attrition is more rapid in the earlier years of the life of the Company s advertisers.  A summary of intangible assets is as follows:  

F-7 

CBD MEDIA LLC  
   
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)  
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003  
  (Dollars in Thousands)  

Amortization of identifiable intangible assets for the next five years as of December 31, 2005 is as follows:  

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2005 are as follows: 

Deferred Directory Costs   Direct costs incurred related to directories published in June and November of each year are deferred and amortized over the life of the directory, generally twelve months. Primary directory costs include sales commissions paid to sales agents and printing and distribution costs associated with the directory publications.  
   
   Debt Issue Costs   The costs related to the issuance of debt are capitalized and amortized to interest expense over the life of the related loans using the effective interest method. On June 13, 2003, the Company successfully completed a recapitalization, in which the existing credit facility was terminated and the Company entered into a new $165,000 senior credit facility, and issued and sold $150,000 of 8   5  / 8 % senior subordinated notes. The Company incurred debt issuance costs of approximately $10,050 related to the recapitalization.  Existing debt issuance costs related to the Term A and Term B loans of approximately $6,242 (and accumulated amortization of approximately $1,357) were written off and charged to interest expense in conjunction with the termination of such debt.  In February 2004, the Company refinanced the tranche B term loan of its senior credit facility with a 
tranche C term loan (see Note 6).  In connection with the refinancing the Company capitalized financing fees of approximately $600.  In October 2004, the Company replaced the existing tranche C term loan with a $153,000 tranche D term loan (see Note 6).  In connection with the refinancing the Company capitalized financing fees of approximately $254.  Amortization of approximately $1,536, $1,482, and $6,143 (including $4,885 related to the write-off of existing debt issuance costs) has been charged to expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 
   
   Vendor Incentives   The Company has long-term contracts with certain vendors under which the vendors pay cash incentives to the Company for entering into the contracts. These incentives are recorded as deferred income and amortized as a reduction of cost of sales over the related contract terms. The amount of deferred vendor incentives that are expected to be amortized within one year are recorded as a current liability within other current liabilities. The remaining portion of deferred vendor incentives are recorded within other long-term liabilities. Total deferred vendor incentives were approximately $1,684 and $2,218 at December 31, 2005, and 2004, respectively.  
   
   Fair Value of Financial Instruments   The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other accrued expenses approximate their fair values due to the short-term nature of these financial instruments. The fair value of the Company s long-term debt, including current maturities, is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on the incremental borrowing rates currently available to the Company for similar debt with similar terms and maturity.  

F-8 

CBD MEDIA LLC  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   
  (Dollars in Thousands)   
   
   Concentration of Credit Risks   Financial instruments which potentially expose the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of accounts receivable. Management believes its credit policies are prudent and reflect normal industry terms and business risk. The Company does not anticipate non-performance by its customers and, accordingly, does not require collateral.  
   
 A roll forward of the allowance for sales adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is as follows: 
   
 Balance, December 31, 2002 
 $2,627 
 Charged to revenue 
  4,136 
 Write-offs 
  (1,888)  
 Balance, December 31, 2003 
   4,875 
 Charged to revenue 
   4,113 
 Write-offs 
  (4,468)  
 Balance, December 31, 2004 
   4,520 
 Charged to Revenue 
   3,506 
 Write-Offs 
  (3,339)  
 Balance, December 31, 2005 
 $4,687 

Revenue Recognition   Revenue is primarily the result of selling advertising that is subsequently placed in the Cincinnati Bell Yellow Pages. Revenues related to publishing directories are recognized using the  amortization method  under which revenues are recognized over the lives of the directories, generally twelve months. Deferred revenue relates to the sale of advertising to national advertisers which is billed in advance and recognized over the lives of the directories. Adjustments to revenue include primarily estimated sales adjustments for estimated losses due to claims resulting from publication errors, omissions in customer advertising, customer early terminations or other customer complaints. The estimated sales adjustments are determined based on historical experience, current knowledge of customers with disconnected phone service, and customer complaints received.  
   
   Income Taxes   No provision for federal taxes is required because the Company has elected to be taxed as a limited liability company; accordingly, each member s respective share of income is included in its federal return. The Company has provided for certain state and city taxes which are classified within general and administrative expenses.  State and city taxes resulted in expense of approximately $0 and $59 for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and a benefit of approximately $43 for the year ended December 31, 2003. 
   
   Use of Estimates   The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.  
   
   Reclassifications   For comparative purposes, certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current classifications. 

F-9 

CBD MEDIA LLC   
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   
  (Dollars in Thousands)   
   
  2.  
  RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  
   
 FAS 123 (revised 2004)   Share Based Payments ( FAS 123-R ) was issued in December 2004.  FAS 123-R replaces FAS 123   Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, and supersedes APB 25   Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.  FAS 123-R requires compensation expense associated with share-based payments to employees to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values.  FAS 123-R is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005.  Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material effect on the Company s financial statements. 
   
 Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Interpretation No. ( Interpretation ) 47-Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations   an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, was issued in March 2005.  Interpretation 47 clarifies the timing of liability recognition for legal obligations associated with the retirements of a tangible long-lived asset when the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event.  This Interpretation became effective for the Company in the fourth quarter of 2005.  The application of this Interpretation did not have a material effect on the Company s financial statements. 
   
 FAS 154   Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, which replaces Accounting Principles Opinion No. 20   Accounting Changes and FAS 3   Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements, was issued in May 2005.  FAS 154 provides guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections.  The standard requires retrospective application to prior period financial statements for changes in accounting principles and the reporting of a correction of an error.  FAS 154 also requires a change in accounting estimate that is affected by a change in accounting principle to be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate.  FAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005.  The Company will apply this guidance for future accounting changes. 
   
 FAS 155   Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140, was issued in February 2006.  FAS 155 provides entities with relief from having to separately determine the fair value of an embedded derivative that would otherwise be required to be bifurcated from its host contract in accordance with FAS 133 along with certain other clarifications and amendments to FAS 133 and FAS 140.  FAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued, or subject to a remeasurement event occurring after the beginning of an entity s first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006.  Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material effect on the Company s financial statements. 
   
 FAS 156   Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets   an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140, was issued in March 2006.  FAS 156 provides some relief for servicers that use derivatives to economically hedge fluctuations in the fair value of their servicing rights and changes how gains and losses are computed in certain transfers or securitizations.  FAS 156 is effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006.  Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material effect on the Company s financial statements. 

F-10 

CBD MEDIA LLC   
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   
  (Dollars in Thousands)   
   
  3.  
  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT    
   
 Property and equipment at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consisted of the following: 

4.  
  DEFERRED DIRECTORY COSTS  
   
 At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company deferred directory costs for directories in the Greater Cincinnati Area which were published in June and November 2005 and 2004, respectively.  Deferred directory costs at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consisted of the following: 

5.  
  LEASES  
   
 The Company leases office space under non-cancelable operating leases.  Rent paid was approximately $277, $267 and $354 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 
   
 Future minimum rent payments are as follows: 
   
 Year ending December 31: 

F-11 

CBD MEDIA LLC   
   
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   
  (Dollars in Thousands)   
   
  6.  
  LONG-TERM DEBT  
   
 Long-term debt at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consisted of the following: 

In conjunction with the recapitalization on June 13, 2003, the Company issued $150,000 of 8 5/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011.  Net of fees and expenses, the issuance generated cash proceeds of $141,442.      
   
 These proceeds, along with the proceeds from a new senior credit facility with a tranche B term loan of $160,000 and cash on hand were used to retire the existing $50,000 Term Loan A and the $160,000 Term Loan B.  As part of the recapitalization in 2003 the Company made distributions of approximately $128,300 to equity holders.  Substantially all assets of the Company are pledged as collateral under the existing debt agreements. 
   
 On June 13, 2003, the Company also entered into a revolving line of credit as part of the same senior credit facility as the $160,000 tranche B term loan, under which the Company may borrow up to $5,000 at the bank s prime rate or LIBOR, plus applicable margins.  The tranche B term loan required annual principal reductions of $1,600 and the balance was due at maturity on December 31, 2008.  The line of credit replaced the existing line of credit, under which the Company could borrow up to $10,000 at the bank s prime rate plus 2.25% or the LIBOR rate plus 3.25%.  There were no borrowings outstanding on the revolving lines of credit at December 31, 2005 or 2004. 
   
 In conjunction with the previous credit facility, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement on October 4, 2002 that effectively converted a portion of the interest on the Term A and B loans to a fixed rate of 6.17%.  In accordance with FAS 133- Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, the Company has classified this interest rate swap agreement as a cash flow hedge.  On June 18, 2003, in conjunction with the recapitalization, the Company paid approximately $2,900 to terminate this interest rate swap agreement which is presented within interest expense on the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. 
   
 In February 2004, the Company refinanced its tranche B term loan with a tranche C term loan to adjust its interest rate, maturity date and eliminate the annual principal reduction requirement.  Prior to the refinancing, the Company made a principal payment of $8,600 thereby reducing the outstanding principal balance. 
   
 In October 2004, CBD Holdings completed a recapitalization in which CBD Holdings issued and sold $100,000 of 9 % senior notes due 2012.  In connection with the recapitalization, the Company amended the senior credit facility by replacing the existing tranche C term loan with a tranche D term loan to borrow an additional $23,000.  As part of the recapitalization in 2004 the Company made distributions of approximately $27,000 to its member. 

F-12 

CBD MEDIA LLC   
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   
  (Dollars in Thousands)   

The fair value of the Company s debt obligations was approximately $283,875 and $311,250 as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 
   
 Under the terms of the loan agreements noted above, certain restrictive covenants exist regarding the Company s ability to enter into new loan agreements, enter into interest rate hedges, buy or sell assets, enter into mergers or acquisitions, affect a liquidation of the Company, pay dividends, or amend the provisions of the Company s bylaws, articles of incorporation or any provision of any material contract.  Other restrictive covenants include leverage restrictions and interest coverage.  At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company was in compliance with all restrictive covenants. 
   
 Scheduled maturities of long-term debt are as follows: 
   
 Year ending December 31: 
 2009 
 $132,000 
 2011 
    150,000  
   
 Total 
 $282,000 
 ======= 
   
  7.  
  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  
   
 Affiliates of Cincinnati Bell Inc., a member of CBD Holdings, provide the Company with billing, collection and distribution services through its affiliate Cincinnati Bell Telephone.  The related party receivable reported on the balance sheet represents cash collected by Cincinnati Bell Telephone that has not been remitted to the Company.  Total fees for such services were approximately $1,112, $1,229 and $1,375 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  In addition, the Company provides Cincinnati Bell Telephone with advertising sales, printing and distribution services.  Total gross fees for such services were $4,933, $4,985 and $5,104 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which had related pass through expenses of $3,334, $3,328, and $3,456 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 
   
 Entities affiliated with CBD Holdings provide management services to the Company under the terms of an advisory agreement.  Total fees for such services were approximately $2,000, $2,000 and $1,300 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  
   
 The Company had an intercompany account with its parent, CBD Holdings in 2004.  This amount primarily related to the funding of debt issuance costs and interest payments relating to CBD Holdings, $100 million of 9  % notes issued in October, 2004.  The amount owed to the Company was due upon demand and carried no interest.  During the first quarter of 2005, the balance of the intercompany account was converted to a distribution. 
   
  8.  
  401(k) PLAN  
   
 The Company has established a 401(k) plan.  Employees who are at least 21 years old are eligible for participation.  Employees may contribute a portion of their annual compensation to the plan subject to Internal Revenue Service limitations.  During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company s discretionary contributions to the 401(k) plan were approximately $75, $74 and $62, respectively. 

F-13 

CBD MEDIA LLC      
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   
  (Dollars in Thousands)   

9.  
  MANAGEMENT UNIT AWARDS  
   
 During 2002, CBD Holdings awarded 23,570 Class C units in CBD Holdings to management of the Company.  During 2003, an additional 806 Class C units were issued.  In 2004, 330 Class C units were forfeited.  The fair value of the Class C units awarded to management of the Company on the date of grant was determined to be less than $3.  The Class C units are subject to various restrictions, including continuous employment over a four year period.  Subsequent to the vesting period, any transfer or sale of the Class C units is subject to the approval of the majority owners of CBD Holdings.  Management believes that the restrictions on liquidation and lack of voting rights make the Class C units subordinate to the other classes of unit holders in CBD Holdings.  Therefore, this arrangement is consistent with the definition of junior stock and is accounted for on its measurement date in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Int
erpretation No. ( FIN ) 38   Determining the Measurement Date for Stock Option, Purchase, and Award Plans Involving Junior Stock.  Compensation expense is not recorded until a measurement date is reached in accordance with FIN 38.  A measurement date will be reached when the restrictions on the Class C units are removed, generally upon a change in control of the Company or approval of the majority owners of CBD Holdings.  At the measurement date, the Company will recognize compensation expense equal to the fair value of the Class C units on that date. 
   
 In connection with the recapitalization in June 2003, CBD Investor, Inc. (parent of CBD Holdings) established an incentive compensation program for the Company s employees who hold the Class C units, under which CBD Investor, Inc. paid these employees as a group, an aggregate amount of approximately $1,000 upon consummation of the recapitalization, which was expensed in July 2003.  Additionally, CBD Investor, Inc. agreed to provide an additional pool to these employees of up to $4,350.  This additional incentive amount is subject to vesting over a five-year period and is payable only upon the occurrence of certain specified events.  Additionally, in order for any incentive amount to be payable, the aggregate value of the Class C units at such event must equal or exceed $8,600 but may not exceed $13,250.  If the total value of the Class C units at the time of such event exceeds $13,250, then no incentive amount is payable.  The incentive a
mount will be paid upon the occurrence of a qualifying event and charged to expense when the incentive payment becomes probable and in accordance with the remaining vesting period. 
   
 In April 2005 and 2004, the holders of the Class C units received aggregate tax distributions from the Company of approximately $36 and $1,555, respectively.  As these distributions were made by the Company without regard to vesting or eventual vesting of the Class C units, such distributions were recorded as compensation expense. 
   
 In connection with the October 2004 recapitalization, the holders of the Class C units received distributions from the Company of approximately $1,326.  As these distributions were made by the Company without regard to vesting or eventual vesting of the Class C units, such distributions were recorded as compensation expense.  In addition, CBD Holdings established an incentive compensation program under which the holders of the Class C units are eligible to receive additional distributions of approximately $1,315.  The holders of Class C units will generally vest in and be paid the incentive compensation over a three-year period on each anniversary of the recapitalization subject to continued employment with the Company.  In October 2005, CBD Holdings paid approximately $438, or approximately one-third, of the remaining $1,315 to holders of the Class C units.  Upon termination of employment the holder of Class C units will forfeit any unpaid in
centive compensation and the forfeited amount will be allocated among the remaining Class C unit holders.  The holders of Class C units will fully vest in the unvested incentive compensation upon a change in control.  The amount of the incentive compensation is charged to expense over the vesting period.  Compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was approximately $730 and $134, respectively. 

F-14 

CBD MEDIA LLC     
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)  
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003   
  (Dollars in Thousands)   

10.  
  SUMMARIZED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited)  
   
 Summarized financial information is as follows (in thousands): 

F-15 

Exhibit 12.1  

CBD Media LLC  
  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges  

Exhibit 31.1   
   
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   
   
 I, Douglas A. Myers, Chief Executive Officer of CBD Media LLC certify that:  

1. 
   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of CBD Media LLC;  

2. 
   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3. 
   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4. 
   The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:  

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by other within those entities, particularly during the period in which the report is being prepared;  
   
 b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  
   
 c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting; and  

5. 
   The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  
   
 b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting.  

Date:                March 31, 2006 

By: 
     
      /s/ Douglas A. Myers  

Name: 
     
   Douglas A. Myers 

Title: 
     
   Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 31.2   
   
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER   
   
 I, John P. Schwing, Chief Financial Officer of CBD Media LLC certify that:  

1. 
   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of CBD Media LLC;  

2. 
   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3. 
   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4. 
   The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:  

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by other within those entities, particularly during the period in which the report is being prepared;  
   
 b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  
   
 c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting; and  

5. 
   The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  
   
 b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting.  

Date:                March 31, 2006 

By: 
     
      /s/ John P. Schwing  

Name: 
     
   John P. Schwing 

Title: 
     
   Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 32.1   
   
  CERTIFICATION OF PERIODIC REPORT   
   
 The undersigned officers of  CBD Media LLC  hereby certify pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that:  

1. 
   the annual report on Form 10-K of CBD Media LLC for the period ended December 31, 2005 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

2. 
   the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of CBD Media LLC  

Date:                March 31, 2006 

By: 
     
      /s/ Douglas A. Myers  

Name: 
     
   Douglas A. Myers 

Title: 
     
   Chief Executive Officer 

Date:                March 31, 2006 

By: 
     
      /s/ John P. Schwing  

Name: 
     
   John P. Schwing 

Title: 
     
   Chief Financial Officer 

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely to accompany the Report pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, and is not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.  
   
 A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request 

<EX-10>
 2
 cbdexhibit10.htm

AMENDMENT NO 

AMENDMENT NO.6  
   
 This Amendment is made effective as of November 16, 2005, by and between CBD Media, LLC ( Buyer ), and Quebecor World Directory Sales Corporation ( Assignor ) and Quebecor World Hazleton Inc. ( Assignee ), amends the Printing and Binding Agreement entered into by and between the Buyer and the Assignor on July 23,1998, as amended by an Amendment No.1 dated as of December 22,1999, an Amendment No.2 dated as of November 20, 2001, an Amendment No.3 dated as of December 10, 2004 and an Amendment No.4 dated as of March 18, 2004, and Amendment No.5 dated as of January 1, 2005 (as so amended, the  Agreement ). 
   
 Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the respective meaning ascribed to them in the Agreement. 
   
 In consideration of the promises of the parties set forth in the Agreement and hereinafter set forth and made part of the Agreement, the parties agree as follows: 
   
 1. 
 Buyer hereby expressly consents to the assignment by Quebecor World Directory Sales Corporation of all of its rights and obligations under the Agreement to Quebecor World Hazleton Inc. and Quebecor World Hazleton Inc. hereby agrees to become a party to the Agreement, as amended, and to be bound by its terms. All references to  Seller  in the Agreement shall be deemed a reference to the Assignee. 
   
 2. 
 The notice addresses of the Seller is replaced with the following and the clause entitled  Notices  is hereby amended accordingly: 
   
 Senior Vice President Sales 
 Quebecor World Directory Group 
 10481 Yonge Street 
 Richmond Hill, Ontario Canada  L4C 3C6 
   
 cc: 
 Vice president, Legal Affairs 
 Quebecor World Inc. 
 612 St.Jacques Street 
 Montreal, Quebec Canada  H3C 4M8 
   
 6. 
 This Amendment No.6 shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties on the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all other written or oral communication, proposals, drafts, amendments, agreements and representations between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof. Except as specifically amended herein the Agreement is in all respects ratified and confirmed. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties have caused this Amendment No.6 to be executed by their respective representatives thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written. 

CBD MEDIA, LLC  
  QUEBECOR WORLD DIRECTORY SALES CORPORATION  
   
 By:  
  /s/ Douglas A. Myers  
 By:        /s/ Kevin J. Chandler  
   
 Name:  
  Douglas A. Myers  
 Name:    Kevin J. Chandler  
   
 Title:  
  President   CEO  
 Title:   President, Book   Directory  
   
 Date:  
  11-29-05  
 Date:       12-12-05  

QUEBECOR WORLD HAZLETON INC.  
   
 By:       /s/ Kevin J. Chandler  
   
 Name:   Kevin J. Chandler  
   
 Title:  President, Book   Directory  
   
 Date:      12-12-05  

AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT BETWEEN CBD MEDIA, LLC   
   
  AND  
   
  QUEBECOR WORLD HAZLETON INC.   
  FOR PRINTING AND BINDING OF DIRECTORIES  

This Agreement is made as of November _____ 2005 by and between CBD Media, LLC., (hereinafter  Buyer  or  CBD ), a Delaware limited liability company with principal offices located at 312 Plum Street, Suite 900, Cincinnati, OH 45202, and  Quebecor World Hazleton Inc.  (hereinafter  Seller ), a Delaware corporation with principal offices located at Rt924 South, Hazleton Industrial Park RR #1 BOX 409Z Hazleton, PA 18201.   
   
   PREAMBLE   
   
 WHEREAS Quebecor World Directory Sales Corporation (formerly Quebecor Printing Directory Sales Corporation) and CBD Media, LLC (formerly Cincinnati Bell Directory Inc.) have entered into an agreement for the printing and binding of directories dated as of July 23, 1998 ( 1998 Agreement  
   
 WHEREAS the 1998 Agreement was amended as of December 22, 1999, November 20, 2001, December 10, 2002, March 18, 2004, January 1, 2005, and November 16, 2005 ( Amendments  
   
 WHEREAS on November 16, 2005 the Buyer gave its written consent in accordance with the 1998 Agreement for Quebecor World Directory Sales Corporation to assign its rights and obligations under the 1998 Agreement, as amended, to Quebecor World Hazleton Inc.; and 
   
 WHEREAS the parties now wish to restate and further amend the 1998 Agreement and its Amendments, which shall be replaced and superseded by this Agreement; 
   
 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises of the parties set forth in the 1998 Agreement and its Amendments and hereinafter set forth, the parties agree as follows: 

1.  
   DEFINITIONS   
   
 Capitalized terms used herein which are not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in Attachment V   DEFINITIONS. 
   
  2.  
   SUBJECT   
   
 Buyer agrees to purchase and Seller agrees to sell the Printing Services described in this Agreement in accordance with the terms and conditions stated herein. 
   
  3.  
   CONTRACT PERIOD   
 This Agreement shall become effective on January 1, 1999 and shall continue through December 31, 2011. 
   
 This Agreement may be extended by mutual agreement for single year terms for a period of two consecutive years, 2012 and 2013.  Buyer shall indicate its intention to renew this Agreement by July 1, 2011 for year 2012, and by July 1, 2012 for year 2013. Pricing for extension year(s) will be negotiated at the time of renewal notice. 

Upon receipt of a timely intention to renew, Seller shall have thirty (30) days in which to notify Buyer that Seller will not renew.  If Seller does not notify Buyer within that thirty (30) days period, this Agreement will be renewed for the term specified by Buyer. 
   
 This Agreement shall automatically extend to cover any Printing Services in progress at its expiration.  Buyer reserves the right to change the interval between issues of any of the directories at any time. 
   
  4.  
   PRINTING SERVICES   
 This Agreement covers the following services (herein referred to as  Printing Services  that Seller will be rendering to Buyer: 
   
 Plating, Presswork, Binding and further miscellaneous services: 
   
 Full Size Directories (8-7/8  x 10-7/8  and 9-5/8  x 10-7/8 ) 
 Midi Size Directories (6-7/8  x 7-3/4 ) 
 Small Format Directories (5-15/16  x 9 ) 
   
 Buyer can source alternate print suppliers for inserts, on-serts, tabs and other specialty printing requirements.  If Buyer requests Seller to supply such other specialty printing requirements and Seller accepts, the pricing for the supply of such other specialty printing requirements by Seller will be negotiated separately with Buyer. In all events, Seller shall have the right to match any third party supplier price provided to Buyer on specialty printing requirement items and have a priority right to provide such item(s) to the Buyer at such price. Should Seller chose not to supply an item or match a third party supplier price, Buyer may supply such items using third party suppliers. All products supplied by Buyer s third party suppliers will adhere to the Seller s specifications. If any non-conforming materials result in additional costs to Seller, then Buyer will reimburse Seller for the actua
l additional costs incurred by Seller. Seller will advise Buyer of any such additional cost before they are incurred. Subject to the above, all binding prices related to specialty printing requirements included in the attachments hereto will remain in effect, whether these requirements are supplied  by Seller or by a third party supplier. 
 Seller will confirm quantities of materials received from Buyer s third party suppliers within a reasonable time after receipt. If the quantity received is materially under the required amount, Seller will notify Buyer in writing within two (2) business days of receipt so that Buyer and Seller can agree on the appropriate corrective action.   
   
  5.  
   PRICE   
 Manufacturing unit prices (excluding paper) are contained in Attachment I   PRICE SCHEDULE, including Section A (Plating, Presswork and Binding of Full Size Directories dated January 1, 2005), Section B (Plating, Presswork and Binding of Midi Size Directories dated January 1, 2005) and Section C (Plating, Presswork and Binding of Small Format Directories dated January 1, 2005). Such prices shall become effective January 1, 2005, without a CPI adjustment for 2005, and will be adjusted as of January 1st of each year thereafter, with the exception of 2008, by 75% of the CPI-W. In addition, effective January 1, 2008 these prices will be reduced in such a way as to reduce the annual manufacturing billing by $100,000 using the 2006 volume and unit prices as a base for establishing the $100,000 annual manufacturing reduction. Seller will provide Buyer written notice of annual manufacturing price increase, if applicable, accompa
nied by all source documents used to establish basis for price increase. 
 For the purposes of this Agreement, CPI-W shall mean the percentage change in the August US Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, US City Average, all items index (1984=100) from the prior year s August Consumer Price Index. 
 At the end of 2005, the parties will ensure that the 2005 manufacturing reductions (using the 2003 print volumes) as built in the new PRICE SCHEDULE effective as of January 1, 2005 have been achieved by comparing: (i) the total volume of the 2005 actual print volumes charged by Seller to Buyer using the new unit pricing effective as of January 1, 2005 to (ii) what would have been the total value of the 2005 actual print volumes using the unit pricing in force in 2004. 
   
 In addition, based on the methodology employed to calculate the 2005 manufacturing savings (using 2003 print volumes), both parties agree to verify the cost reductions by applying new unit pricing to actual print volumes.  In the event, the agreed manufacturing reductions are not achieved for any reason other than volume changes in page or copy counts from 2003, a one-time unit pricing adjustment will be made to the pricing set forth in the PRICE SCHEDULE to compensate for the difference and ensure that applicable savings are achieved.  The revised manufacturing unit pricing will become the new baseline for future annual price adjustments according to this Agreement. The same pricing verification method described in this paragraph will also be used for the 2008 manufacturing pricing reduction calculation (using the 2006 print volumes), again for any reason other than volume changes in page or copy counts from 2006. 
 In addition to the prices found in the PRICE SCHEDULE, the Seller will offer to the Buyer on an annual basis four (4) shifts each of pre-press, press and bindery for a total of ninety-six (96) hours (4 shifts X 3 manufacturing operations X 8 hours per shift) at no charge for the exclusive designation of developmental/experimental use. The total manufacturing hours that the Buyer may use in any one calendar year shall not exceed the above-stated ninety-six (96) hours which are not transferable from year to year. The Buyer will be responsible for paper and materials to be invoiced by the Seller at the rates currently in effect at the time of use. 
 Twice per year, the Seller shall make available to the Buyer the Seller s facility, training staff and support material for the sole purpose of education and ongoing training on matters relating to directory printing and its affiliated services. These events shall consist of up to two (2) days time with an attendance per session of twelve (12) individuals. Subject and contents are to be mutually agreed and developed between the Buyer and the Seller. 
  6.  
   PAYMENT TERMS   
 Buyer agrees to make payments of undisputed amounts to Seller for Printing Services ordered hereunder on the following terms:  
 Net 30 days from date of invoice.  Buyer may exercise a 1.5% pre-payment discount on amounts due hereunder, exclusive of sales taxes, by remitting payment for a Seller prepared proforma invoice by the established first copy date of each directory.  The first copy date is defined as the scheduled receipt date for the element of any given directory, be it cover, alpha, class, etc. 
  7.  
   PRODUCTION LOCATIONS AND FREIGHT EQUALIZATION   
 Printing Services for Full Size Directories (8-7/8  x 10-7/8  and 9-5/8  x 10-7/8 ) and Midi Size Directories (6-7/8  x 7-3/4 ) as provided under the terms of this Agreement shall be rendered in Seller s principal manufacturing facility located in Hazleton, PA, or other location(s) pre-approved in writing by Buyer.  Printing Services for Small Format Directories (5-15/16  x 9 ) as provided under the terms of this Agreement shall be rendered in Seller s principal manufacturing facility located in Waukee, IA.  Buyer shall be responsible for outbound transportation costs on the completed directories to their location.  Should Seller, at Seller s convenience, produce any of this work, either in whole or in part, at a facility other than its principal facility, Seller shall be responsible for any excess inbound and outbound transportation costs resulting from a 
change in manufacturing locations.  
 However, when a change in Buyer s requirements (as identified under the clause entitled SCHEDULES) warrants that any of the work must be performed at a manufacturing location other than the principal facility, and strictly for the purpose of accommodating Buyer s revised requirements, then Buyer shall be responsible for all inbound and outbound transportation costs associated with such change.   
  8.  
   QUALITY STANDARDS   
 At Buyer s option, Buyer s representatives shall have access to Seller s plant at any reasonable time during working hours to review Seller s quality system or to make observations on material in process or final products to be furnished to Buyer.  No such site visits shall release Seller from any responsibilities under this Agreement. 
   
 To further the common cause of quality, Seller shall host two sessions per year, one day of duration, targeted on Quality Improvement.  These sessions can alternate between main offices of Buyer and Seller or fully reside in Seller s office.  Seller shall commit the attendance of all staff resources deemed necessary by Buyer to attend these sessions.  The sessions format and contents will be mutually established prior to the session. 
 Seller will make a formal Quality Assurance presentation to Buyer after the completion of the annual manufacturing cycle.  Presentation to include annual quality metrics for Buyer s work at each printing location, compared to previous year and the entire plants annual performance for all work produced in the same facilities. Both Buyer and Seller agree on the need for continuous quality improvements.  Seller agrees that the work will be performed in a good and workmanlike manner, and agrees to achieve commercially acceptable quality subject to the limitations of the Specifications, the materials furnished and the software and equipment used for the particular work.  This warranty is the only warranty made by Seller and all other warranties, express or implied, are hereby specifically excluded, including but not limited to the warranty of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. 
   
  9.  
   SPECIFICATIONS   
 Seller agrees to provide the PRINTING SERVICES and perform any other work under this Agreement in accordance with Buyer s specifications set forth in Attachment IV attached to this Agreement which is incorporated herein by this reference. 
  10.  
   CHANGES   
 Buyer reserves the right to change Buyer s specifications in any respect upon written notice to Seller provided that any such changes do not have a materially adverse effect on Seller s operations and provided that Seller shall have a reasonable period of time in which to make any such change.  Seller shall advise Buyer of the cost impact of the proposed change, if agreed to, Buyer shall then compensate Seller for any increased costs or Seller shall make allowance for any decreased costs incident to such changes.  Otherwise the specifications shall remain unchanged and the remuneration provided in this Agreement shall not be altered. 
  11.  
   PRINTING SPECIFICATIONS   
 Inserts, Pasters and Labels 
 No inserts, pasters or labels shall be inserted or pasted on any directory except as directed by Buyer. 
 Type, Arrangement and Dimensions 
 Directory Trim Size 
    9 5/8  X 10 7/8      8-7/8  x 10-7/8       6-7/8  x 7-3/4      5-15/16  x 9  
 No. of columns per page 
 3/4/5 
     3/4/5 
       3/4/5                      2/3 
 
 Image Areas of overall page: 
 Width (picas) 
 54.5 
    49.5 
         37  
         31  
 Depth (picas)  
  62 
      62 
       42 
        50 
   
 Margins (picas): 
 Top 
    2 
       2 
       2 
        2 
 Bottom 
    2 
       2 
       2 
        2 
 Outside 
    2 
       2 
       2 
        2 
 Inside 
    2 
       2 
       2 
        2 
   
  Furnished Copy Specifications - All Sizes  
   
 Copy will be submitted as digital files in PDF or Post Script format , those files will meet Seller s published specifications, as outlined in Attachment IV   Section B for digital file submissions. 
   
 Paper 
   
  Section  
               
  Color               Grade   
  Basis Weight  
   
 Community 
 White  
          Directory 
               
 24  x 36    22.1#/500 
 Alphabetical 
 White  
          Directory 
         
 24  x 36    22.1#/500  
 Blue 
 White 
          Directory                                         24  x 36    22.1#/500 
 Classified 
 White  
          Directory                                   
 24  x 36    22.1#/500 
 Cover 
 White 
          Directory                                   
 24  x 36  - 122#/500 

Ink Density Standards  
 Mutually agreed standards, which shall be similar to the standards in CBD s current directories, shall be used by the Seller for evaluation and control of production. 
   
  Inks  
 The type of inks used are the responsibility of the Seller.  All inks must comply with CONEG regulations for heavy metal content and toxicity and Yellow Pages Association (YPA) recycling guidelines.  Buyer will provide sample color swatches to insure color visually matches standards.  The ink must not be subject to offsetting, smudging and must minimize show through on the reverse side of the page. 
   
  Copy and Proofs  
 The supplied copy for the full size directories shall be furnished to the Seller at the rate of 168 pages per working day, and the remaining directories in 128 page increments per working day.  Buyer will supply one set of approved page proofs, digital or hard copy, to accompany each set of printing media. 
   
 Following Seller s receipt of the copy, Seller shall notify the Buyer of any media that was received in an unsatisfactory condition.  Once the media is received by the Seller, the Seller shall request any corrected copy within 48 hours.  It is understood that corrected copy shall be forwarded to reach Seller within twenty-four (24) hours or as otherwise mutually agreed.  It is further understood that copy damaged by the Seller during manufacture shall be charged to the Seller at the Buyer s replacement cost plus transportation.  Replacement copy shall reach Seller within twenty-four (24) hours or as otherwise mutually agreed. 
   
 Cover copy shall be forwarded to Seller or its designated service provider following a pre-arranged schedule. 
   
 Copy for multi-colored pages will be provided as digital files. 
   
 All copy (electronic or mechanical) and plate negatives (if applicable) for covers, white pages and yellow pages shall be retained by the Seller for the life of the issue following publication of the directory.  In addition, proof copies, when furnished by the photocompositor, must be retained for the life of the issue. 
   
 Cover proofs will be furnished by Seller as requested by Buyer. 
   
  Binding  
 All directories will be perfect bound on the long dimension as directed by Buyer. 
   
  Binding Method        
  All Sizes  
   
 Perfect Binding 
 64 or more pages, a minimum thickness of 1/16  and a maximum  
 thickness of 3-1/4 . 

Packing - All Sizes  
 Directories shipped by parcel post shall be bundled in corrugated board and wrapped with one sheet of 70 pound kraft wrapper and sealed securely with tape. 
   
 Directories shipped by Express Air freight in less than carload lots, or truck in less than truckload lots, shall be packed in corrugated cardboard cartons. 
   
 Directories designed for mailing will be mailed with furnished pre-sorted Cheshire labels.  Seller or Buyer s designated service provider will bundle the directories to carrier route sort and enter the directories into the U.S. Postal system. 
   
 Directories shipped by rail freight in carload lots, or by truck in truckload lots shall be arranged to meet Buyer s specifications. 
   
  Deliveries  
 The minimum number of directories shipped ranges from 60,000 to 100,000 copies per working day.  When the total print order is less than the minimum, the complete shipment shall be made in one day. 
   
 Directories shall be delivered in first class condition and packed as specified under the section  Packing  included herein or as otherwise specified by Buyer.  For truckload shipments delivered to initial delivery stations, the last two (2) pallets or slip-sheet loads must be stretch-wrapped.  All pallets shipped to Buyer s Delivery Distribution Center (DDC) are to be stretch-wrapped. 
   
 When directories are shipped by railroad freight car or by truck, the number of directories to be loaded in each car or truck (subject to equipment availability) shall be mutually agreed upon in advance of shipment. 
   
 It is understood that the term  working days  excludes Saturdays, Sundays and holidays celebrated by Seller in Seller s plant of manufacture. 
   
 Time is of the essence regarding the delivery schedules. 
   
  12.  
   ASSIGNMENT   
 Neither party shall assign any right or interest under this Agreement nor delegate any Services or other obligation to be performed or owned by the parties under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party, except that the Seller has the right to assign this Agreement to an affiliate of Seller and the Buyer has the right to assign this Agreement, in whole or in part, to its parent, to any subsidiary, or to an acquirer of CBD, in connection with a  Sale , of one or all of Buyer s directories, and except as provided in the Clause entitled   CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP  .  Any attempted ASSIGNMENT or delegation in contravention of the above shall be void and ineffective. 
   
  13.  
   CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP    
   
 If Buyer proposes to sell, dispose of, license or transfer a Publication or the business of publishing the Publication(s), regardless of the form of the sale, disposal, license or transfer, including, without limitation, a sale of assets or stock or a merger or license, and whether or not Buyer is the surviving entity or not (a  Sale ), as soon as reasonably practicable and without breach of confidentiality Buyer shall give Seller written notice of any planned Sale stating the name of the prospective purchaser, the proposed date of Sale and credit information with respect to the prospective purchaser.  At Buyer s request, Seller shall keep such information confidential.  Subject to the prior written consent of Seller, which shall only be withheld in the case where the credit rating of the purchaser is not reasonably acceptable to Seller, Buyer shall cause the purchaser, concurrently with the consummation of suc
h Sale, to assume all of Buyer s rights and obligations under this Agreement by an instrument in writing reasonably satisfactory to Seller.  If Seller does not consent to the assignment of this Agreement by Buyer to such prospective purchaser, this Agreement shall terminate upon the consummation of such Sale subject to payment by Buyer for Work completed to the date of termination, Work in process, Work completed but not billed and Work billed but not paid for and special materials.  Such termination is further subject to the survival of such provisions that by their nature would survive the termination of this Agreement, provided that in the event of the Sale of only a single Publication covered hereby or a portion of the business that publishes the Publication, this Agreement shall terminate only with respect to such portion of the Work sold and Buyer shall have no further obligations as set forth herein only with respect to such portion of the Work so sold. 
   
  14.  
   BUYER S INFORMATION   
   
 All specifications, drawings, sketches, models, samples, tools, computer programs, technical information, confidential business information, directory listing information, intellectual property, or data, written, oral or otherwise  (all hereinafter designated  INFORMATION ) obtained by Seller hereunder or in contemplation hereof shall remain Buyer s property.  All copies of such INFORMATION in written, graphic or other tangible form shall be returned to Buyer upon request.  Unless such INFORMATION was previously known to Seller free of any obligation to keep it confidential or has been or is subsequently made public by Buyer or a third party not in breach of any confidentiality obligations, or is independently acquired or developed by Seller, it shall be kept confidential by Seller, shall be used only in the filling of Orders, or in performing otherwise hereunder, and may be used for o
ther purposes only upon such terms as may be agreed upon in writing by Buyer. 
   
  15.  
   CHOICE OF LAW   
 The construction, interpretation and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the domestic laws of the State of Ohio. 
   
  16.  
   COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS   
   
 Seller shall comply with all applicable federal, state, county and local laws, ordinances, regulations and codes (including procurement of required permits or certificates) in Seller s performance hereunder irrespective of whether or not a specification is furnished. 
   
  17.  
   CONTINGENCY   
   
 Neither of the parties shall be held responsible for any delay or failure in performance hereunder caused by fires, strikes, embargoes, requirements imposed by Government regulations, civil or military authorities, acts of God or by the public enemy or other similar causes beyond such party s control (collectively,   CONTINGENCY ). 
   
 If such CONTINGENCY occurs, this Agreement shall be suspended for the duration of the delaying cause and the party injured may buy or sell elsewhere Printing Services to be bought or sold hereunder, and deduct from any commitment the quantity bought or sold or for which commitments have been made elsewhere and resume performance hereunder once the length of time of the CONTINGENCY has ended. 
   
  18.  
   CONTRACT PAYMENTS   
   
 In consideration of the term of this Agreement and of the terms and conditions set forth herein and the estimated annual volume forecasts provided by Buyer during each year of this Agreement (the  Annual Volume Forecast  is attached hereto as Attachment III and made a part hereof), Seller shall make cash payment to Buyer in the following amounts on the following dates (the  Contract Payments ): 
   
 Payment Date 
 Payment Amount 
   
 June 15, 2005 
 $   100,000.00 
 June 15, 2006 
 $   100,000.00 
 June 15, 2007 
 $   200,000.00 
   
 Seller shall make the Contract Payments to Buyer provided that there is no uncured material breach or anticipatory breach by Buyer under the Agreement as of the payment date (in the event of there being a material uncured breach or anticipatory breach, Seller shall have no obligation to issue such Contract Payment until such breach is cured). 
   
 The parties acknowledge and agree that the Contract Payments are being given in consideration of Seller s production of all the Work contemplated hereby for the full contract period, the Annual Volume Forecast and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof.  Accordingly, in the event that Seller does not have the opportunity to produce the Work for the entire contract period, including without limitation, in the event of the discontinuance of all of the Work, a Sale of the Work and Seller is not retained to produce such Work under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or the earlier termination of this Agreement (excluding termination for cause, as defined herein) (hereinafter collectively referred to as a  Termination Event ), the parties hereby acknowledge that Seller will not recognize the full consideration for which the Contract Payments are being given.  In such case, in addition to 
the other rights and obligations of the parties set forth herein, Seller shall be entitled to and Buyer shall pay to Seller the following cancellation penalty related to the unexpired term of the Agreement:  
 Termination Without Cause on/or Before 
 Cancellation Penalty 
 December 31, 2005 
 $   900,000.00 
 December 31, 2006 
 $   400,000.00 
 December 31, 2007 
 $              0.00 
   
 In the event that buyer rescopes or combines the Work, or sells or discontinues a portion of the Work that results in a material reduction of the estimated volume contemplated hereby (hereinafter collectively referred to as a  Reduction Event ), the parties hereby acknowledge that the Seller will not recognize the full consideration for which the Contract Payments are being given.  In such case, in addition to the other rights and obligations of the parties set forth herein, Seller will be entitled to and Buyer hereby agrees to reimburse Seller, promptly, without set-off or deduction, an amount in cash equal to the unamortized portion of the foregoing Contract Payments as of the effective date of such Reduction Event.  In light of such Reduction Event, Seller shall have the right to reevaluate and recalculate any remaining contract payments to be made on future payment dates based on the revised Annual Volume Forecast, if any, pr
ovided by Buyer. A Reduction Event that occurs after December 31, 2007 shall not give rise to any repayment obligation of Buyer with respect to previously received Contract Payments. 
 For purposes of this Section only, the term  termination for cause  shall mean termination of the Agreement by Buyer due to material breach by Seller under this Agreement or an Insolvency Event of Default by Seller. 
  19.  
   ENTIRE AGREEMENT   
   
 This Agreement as supplemented by its Attachments shall constitute the entire Agreement between Buyer and Seller and shall replace and supersede the 1998 Agreement and its Amendments. This Agreement shall not be modified or rescinded, except by a writing signed by both Buyer and Seller. 
   
  20.  
   EXTRA COPIES   
   
  EXTRA COPIES  of an issue or a section of the directory ordered by Buyer prior to the completion of the printing shall be furnished at the prices provided under this Agreement.  Prices for  EXTRA COPIES  ordered after the printing has been completed may be changed by agreement of the parties to fairly reflect Seller s cost for the production of such EXTRA COPIES.   
   
  21.  
   PROPERTY INSURANCE   
   
 Seller shall maintain, at Seller s expense and with an insurance company satisfactory to Buyer, all risk property insurance on all MATERIAL furnished without charge by Buyer, including all Master Information, Media and directory paper and cover stocks.  Such insurance shall cover the current replacement cost of such property, including the cost of labor to reconstruct and/or replace such property, and the policy shall contain a provision that losses shall be paid directly to Buyer or to Seller, as our respective interests appear.  If the coverage is in the form of an endorsement, it should specify that the full amount of Buyer s loss, without prorating, is payable to Buyer.  Seller shall furnish Buyer with copies of the policy or other satisfactory proof of insurance.  Seller agrees that Seller, Seller s insurer(s) and anyone claiming by, through, under or in Seller s behalf shall have no claim, right of actio
n or right of subrogation against Buyer based on any loss or liability insured against under the foregoing insurance and Seller will obtain from Seller s insurer confirmation that such insurance company has waived an such right of subrogation or right of action. 
   
 Certificates furnished by Seller or its subcontractors shall contain a clause stating that  Buyer is to be notified in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to cancellation of, or any MATERIAL change in, the policy.  
   
  22.  
   FORECAST   
   
 The  FORECAST  Attachment III, which is incorporated herein, contains a list of directories, a forecast of the number of pages per copy and number of copies for the 2005 directories.  A FORECAST for each subsequent year of this Agreement, following the first year, will be furnished by December 1 of each year for Buyer s Spring directories and May 1 of each year preceding production of Buyer s Fall directories.  These FORECASTS do not constitute commitments and Buyer may change the final copy dates and shall confirm such dates with Seller.  Seller shall deliver the directories in accordance with established delivery schedules.  Buyer agrees that Seller shall provide all such Printing Services as set forth elsewhere in this Agreement as Buyer shall from time to time require relative to directories listed in the Forecast, provided that Buyer has the right, unilaterally, but subject to Section 23 hereof, to discon
tinue, combine or rescope said directories and provided that Seller shall be entitled to provide the Printing Services set forth in this Agreement for such combined or rescoped directories.  Nothing in this provision or Agreement shall require Buyer to order a stated number of directory pages or copies, but Seller shall be entitled to provide all of the requirements for directories set forth in the FORECAST as Buyer shall from time to time need. 
   
  23.  
   DISCONTINUANCE; CANCELLATION   
   
 In the event any directory title is discontinued during the term hereof, Buyer shall use its best commercial efforts to notify Seller in writing six (6) months prior to the date of proposed discontinuance and shall in all cases notify Seller at least ninety (90) days in advance of the date of such proposed discontinuance. Buyer s obligations to Seller hereunder with respect to such directory title shall cease, effective with the discontinuance, except to pay for directory titles in process, directory titles completed but not billed, directory titles billed but not paid for and materials ordered or inventoried for Buyer and not otherwise usable by Seller at the plant of production of the affected directory title within a reasonable period of time ( special materials ), and except with respect to any provisions herein that survive any such termination.  If a discontinuance occurs on less than ninety (90) days prior written notice t
o Seller, Buyer shall be liable to Seller for all of the down-time and other direct damages that Seller may suffer as a result of such discontinuance, subject to Seller s duty to mitigate. In the event of any discontinuance, this Agreement shall terminate only with respect to such directory title discontinued, and Buyer shall have no further obligations with respect to such directory title so discontinued.  As used herein, the term  discontinuance  shall be deemed to mean a total, permanent cessation of publishing the directory title by Buyer or any other entity, including, without limitation, any successor, assignee, lessee, licensee, transferee or affiliate of Buyer.  If Buyer (or its assignee or successor in interest hereunder), should thereafter resume publishing the directory title so discontinued at any time during the term of this Agreement, such party shall notify Seller reasonably in advance, in which event Seller shall have the first priority right to produce the directory 
title pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 
   
 If Buyer cancels the printing of any directory title, whether prior to or during the commencement of the printing of such directory title, Buyer agrees to use its best commercial efforts to give Seller six (6) months prior written notice of such an event and shall in all cases provide Seller with at least ninety (90) days advance notice of the date of such cancellation.  If a cancellation occurs on less than ninety (90) days prior written notice to Seller, Buyer shall be liable to Seller for all of the down-time and other direct damages that Seller may suffer as a result of such cancellation, subject to Seller s duty to mitigate. In any event, regardless of the period of notice, Seller will be liable for directory titles in process to date of cancellation, directory titles completed but not billed, directory titles billed but not paid for and special materials. 

24.  
   INFRINGEMENT OF PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE SECRETS OR COPYRIGHTS   
   
 Seller agrees to defend at Seller s own expense all suits against Buyer, for INFRINGEMENT of any PATENT, TRADEMARK, COPYRIGHT, TRADE SECRET, or any other proprietary right of any third party by any Printing Services covered by this Agreement and will indemnify or will save Buyer harmless from all reasonable expense of defending any such suit and all payments by final judgment assessed on account of such INFRINGEMENT except INFRINGEMENT arising from adherence to copy, specifications or drawings which Seller is directed by Buyer to follow or residing in parts or supplies furnished by Buyer to Seller for use under this Agreement.  Buyer will at its own expense defend all suits against Seller for such excepted INFRINGEMENT and save Seller harmless from all reasonable expense of defending any such suit from all payments by final judgment assessed against Seller on account of such INFRINGEMENT.  In acquiri
ng other material for use under this Agreement, Seller agrees to use reasonable care to protect Buyer with respect to claims of INFRINGEMENT.  Each party agrees to give the other prompt written notice of suits for INFRINGEMENT for which the other assumes responsibility under this Agreement and full opportunity and authority to assume the sole defense including appeals, and, upon such other s request and at its expense, to furnish all INFORMATION and assistance available to it for such defense.  If either party assumes responsibility for any such suits against the other party, then such party will not settle or compromise any such suit without the other party s prior written consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld.  
   
  25.  
   INVOICE   
 Seller s INVOICE shall be rendered after shipment of all directories and shall be payable as set forth in this Agreement.  The original INVOICE shall be sent to: 
   
 Mr. John Schwing 
 CFO   VP Finance   Administration 
 CBD Media, LLC 
 312 Plum Street, Suite 900 
 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 
   
  26.  
   LIABILITY, INSURANCE, INDEMNITY   
   
 All persons furnished by Seller, including any subcontractors, shall be considered solely Seller s employees, agents or subcontractors and not employees, agents or subcontractors of Buyer; and Seller shall be responsible for full compliance with all laws, rules and regulations involving, but not limited to, employment of labor, hours of labor, working conditions, payments of wages and payment of taxes, such as unemployment, social security and other payroll taxes, including applicable contributions from its employees, agents or subcontractors when required by law. 
   
 Seller agrees to indemnify and save Buyer harmless from any liabilities, claims or demands (including the costs, expenses and reasonable attorney s fees on account thereof) that may be made: (1) by any third person for injuries, including death to persons or damage to property, including theft, resulting from Seller s negligent or otherwise wrongful acts or omissions, or those of Seller s employers, agents or subcontractors; (2) by any third person for injuries, including death to persons or damage to property, caused by any directories supplied by Seller hereunder in a defective or dangerous condition; or (3) under Worker s Compensation, or similar employer-employee LIABILITY acts, against Buyer by Seller s employees, agents or subcontractors; or (4) by Buyer s subscribers or any third party by reason of any errors or omissions caused by Seller in media or Directories furnished by Sel
ler. Seller agrees to defend Buyer at Buyer s request, against any such LIABILITY, claim or demand.  The foregoing indemnification shall apply whether Seller or Buyer defends such suit or claims and whether the death, injury or property damage is caused by the sole acts or omissions of Seller or by the concurrent acts or omissions of Buyer and Seller hereunder.  Buyer agrees to notify Seller promptly of any written claims or demands against Buyer for which Seller is responsible hereunder.  If either party assumes responsibility for any such suit against the other party, then such party will not settle or compromise any such suit without the other party s prior written consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld. 
   
 Seller shall maintain, during the term hereof, all INSURANCE and/or bonds required by law, or otherwise, in each case with insurance companies rates not less than A-IX by A.M. Best (or a comparable rating by another nationally recognized rating agency), including but not limited to: 
   
 (1) 
 Worker s Compensation insurance as required by the State(s) in which the contract 
     
 is to be performed. 
   
 (2)  
       Employer s Liability insurance with limits of not less than $500,000 per occurrence. 
   
 (3) 
 Comprehensive or Commercial General Liability insurance, Occurrence Basis, including  
     
 but not limited to premises-operations, broad from property damage, products/completed 
 operations, contractual liability, independent contractors, personal injury with limits of at  
 least $1,000,000 combined single limit for each occurrence. 
   
 (4) 
 Automobile Liability, Comprehensive Form, with limits of at least $1,000,000 combined single limit for each occurrence. 
   
 (5) 
 Excess Liability, in the Umbrella Form and on an Occurrence Basis, with limits of at least 
 $5,000,000 combined single limit for each occurrence. 
   
 Seller agrees that Seller, Seller s insurer(s) and anyone claiming by, through, under or in behalf of Seller shall have no claim, right of action or right of subrogation against Buyer or Buyer s customers based on any loss or LIABILITY insurable under the foregoing INSURANCE and Seller will obtain from Seller s insurer confirmation that such insurance company has waived any such right of subrogation or right of action. 
   
 Seller shall also require its subcontractors, if any, who may enter upon Buyer premises to maintain similar INSURANCE and to agree to furnish Buyer, if requested, certificates or other adequate proof of such INSURANCE.  Certificates furnished by Seller or its subcontractors shall contain a clause stating that  Buyer is to be notified in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to cancellation of or any material change in policy . 
   
 Buyer and Seller will review on an annual basis on whether the level of coverage should increase at a minimum of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the Philadelphia Metropolitan area. 
   
  27.  
   LICENSES   
   
 No LICENSES, express or implied, under any patents, copyrights, trademarks, tradenames or proprietary property or information, are granted by Buyer to Seller under this Agreement.   
   
  28.  
   FEATURES FUND    
   
 Seller will create a features fund ( Features Fund ) of $100,000 for each of 2005, 2006, and 2007. The Features Fund will be available for use against the manufacturing costs of the Warren County Directory for years 2005, 2006, and 2007. Should any part of the $100,000 be remaining in 2005, 2006 or 2007, Buyer would be able to use it to cover up to 100% of the cost to convert 6  X 9  titles from two color to four color in 2005, and up to 50% of that ongoing cost in 2006, and up to 25% of that ongoing cost in 2007. The rolling-over or application as a pure manufacturing credit of these funds is prohibited. 
   
  29.  
   NEW AND CHANGED METHODS, PROCESSES AND EQUIPMENT   
   
 Seller agrees to keep abreast of major developments in the graphic arts and data processing industries and to promptly advise Buyer of any developments which might affect the production of the directories. 
   
 If during the term of this Agreement, Seller s costs are reduced by using improvements from either the a) adoption of new production methods, processes, techniques or materials, or b) use of additional, new or different equipment or facilities, then prices shall be reduced by agreement of the parties to fairly reflect such reduction, and after fully taking into account Seller s costs of developing, implementing and starting up such new methods, processes, techniques or materials. 

30.  
   NON-WAIVER   
 Buyer s failure at any time to enforce any of the provisions of the Agreement or any right or remedy available hereunder or at law or equity, or to exercise any option herein provided will in no way be construed to be a waiver of such provisions, rights, remedies or options or in any way affect the validity of this Agreement.  The exercise by Buyer of any rights, remedies or options provided hereunder or at law or equity shall not preclude or prejudice the exercising thereafter of the same or any other rights, remedies or options. 
   
  31.  
   NOTICES   
 Any notices to be sent will be addressed as follows: 
   
 Senior Vice President-Sales 
 President 
 Quebecor World Directory Group 
 CBD Media, L.L.C. 
 10481 Yonge Street 
 312 Plum Street, Suite 900 
 Richmond Hill (Ontario) 
 Cincinnati, Ohio  45202 
 L4C 3C6 
 cc:   
 cc: 
 Vice President, Legal Affairs 
 Vice President, Finance   Administration, CFO 
 Quebecor World 
        
 CBD Media, L.L.C. 
 612, rue Saint-Jacques 
        
 201 East Fourth Street 
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada  H3C 4M8 
 Suite 102-620 
                     
 Cincinnati, Ohio  45202 
   
  32.  
   ORDERS   
   
 ORDERS applying against this Agreement may be sent to Seller by Buyer, or such of their present or future affiliates as are identified in writing by Buyer. 
   
 The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply to all ORDERS placed by Buyer for the Printing Services described herein, and Buyer s failure to identify the contract number of this Agreement on any ORDER shall in no manner affect the applicability of these terms and conditions. 
   
  33.  
   OVERRUNS AND UNDERRUNS   
 The actual number of copies delivered under this Agreement may because of OVERRUN or UNDERRUN vary from the number ordered as set forth in the schedule below.  A directory containing both alphabetical and  classified sections shall be considered as one directory.  If an alphabetical section of a directory is used in other directories accompanied by different classified sections, the allowable OVERRUN or UNDERRUN for each directory shall be based on such classified runs rather than on the total run for the main alphabetical section. 
   
  Number of Copies Ordered  
      Allowable Overrun or Underrun  
   
   1,000 and under 
 2.50% 
   1,001 through     5,000 
 25 Copies or 1.25%(whichever is greater) 
   5,001 through   15,000 
 65 Copies or 1.00%(whichever is greater) 
    
  15,001 through  25,000 
            150 Copies or .75%(whichever is greater) 
  25,001 through  50,000 
            190 Copies or .50%(whichever is greater) 
  50,001 through 100,000 
            250 Copies or .40%(whichever is greater) 
             100,001 through 200,000 
            400 Copies or .35%(whichever is greater) 
 200,001 through 500,000 
            700 Copies or .25%(whichever is greater) 
 500,001 and over 
         1,250 Copies or .15%(whichever is greater) 
   
  34.  
   PAPER   
 The Seller shall purchase and store paper for the work hereunder in weights and grades sufficient to meet immediate requirements and provide for reasonable contingency supply. Starting as of January 1, 2009, Buyer shall have the right to supply its own paper under this Agreement. Paper supplied by the Buyer shall meet or exceed the specifications set forth in this Agreement, shall be delivered FOB Seller s facilities where the directories are being printed and shall be subject to any other terms and conditions as may be agreed by the parties. 
   
 Paper supplied by Seller shall be billed to Buyer upon completion and shipment of the directory in accordance with the appropriate paper factors found in the PRICE SCHEDULES (Attachment I, Sections B through D) contained in this Agreement.  Seller is responsible for and will pay all freight and shipping charges in connection with the delivery of Seller supplied paper to any of Seller s or its subcontractor s facilities.   
   
 For the period between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2008, Seller will purchase paper for the Buyer s directories to be produced under this Agreement from the Katahdin Mill. Such paper will meet or exceed all paper specifications set forth in this Agreement. The price for paper in 2006 will be $675.00/short ton and will be firm until December 31, 2006. 
   
 In December of 2006, Seller will provide Buyer with a copy of the Katahdin Mill notice of increase in the paper price, if any. If the mill announces an increase in the paper price, this increase shall be passed through to Buyer as of the effective date of such increase, provided that for 2007, such increase shall not exceed $40/short ton. If there is no price increase by the mill, then the paper price for the first half of 2007 will remain at $675/short ton. In June of 2007, Seller will provide Buyer with a copy of the Katahdin notice of increase in paper price for the second half of 2007, if any. In no event will the cost for Buyer s paper compared to the price in effect in 2006 go up by more than a cumulative amount of $40/short ton for all of 2007. If there is no price increase for the second half of 2007, the price for paper for the second half of 2007 will remain at the same price as was set for the first half of 2007. 
   
 In December of 2007, Seller will provide Buyer with a copy of the Katahdin notice of increase in the paper price, if any. If the mill announces an increase in the paper price, this increase shall be passed through to Buyer as of the effective date of such increase, provided that for 2008, such increase shall not exceed $30/short ton. If there is no price increase by the mill, the price for paper for the first half of 2008 will remain at the same price as was set for the second half of 2007. In June of 2008, Seller will provide Buyer with a copy of the Katahdin notice of increase in paper price for the second half of 2008, if any. In no event will the cost for Buyer s paper go up more than a cumulative amount of $30/short ton for all of 2008. If there is no price increase for the second half of 2008, the price for paper for the second half of 2008 will remain at the same price as was set for the first half of 2008. 
   
 If the Katahdin Mill issues a price increase notice and then later withdraws any portion of any such increase in the market place, paper price to Buyer will be reduced accordingly. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the price of paper supplied by Seller under this Agreement at any time during the term be reduced to an amount lower than the base price of $675/short ton. 
   
 Subject to Buyer s right to supply its own paper, the price for paper supplied by Seller after December 31, 2008 shall be as mutually agreed by the parties. 
   
  35.  
   PROCESSING MEDIA   
 The term  PROCESSING MEDIA  (hereinafter referred to as  MEDIA ) includes tapes, discs, positives, negatives, film plates, or any other product used or developed by Seller to produce the directories in its final form.  MEDIA does not include software.  Seller shall, without extra charge and in a manner satisfactory to Buyer, (1) store and maintain MEDIA in a logically organized and good condition, (2) replace worn or damaged MEDIA as required, and (3) store plate-ready film flats of any issue of a subscriber directory or yellow pages directory until the delivery of the next issue of  that subscriber or yellow pages directory.  
   
  36.  
   PUBLICITY   
 Seller agrees to submit to Buyer all advertising, sales promotion, press releases and other PUBLICITY matters relating to the Printing Services furnished by Seller under this Agreement wherein Buyer s names or marks are mentioned or language from which the connection of said names or marks therewith may be inferred or implied; and Seller further agrees not to publish or use such advertising, sales promotion, press releases, or PUBLICITY matters without Buyer s prior written approval. 
   
  37.  
   QUALITY COMMITMENT   
 Quality is conformance to customer s requirements and general industry standards.  Seller agrees that its commitment to Quality and the processes it has in place to fulfill this commitment with respect to each service and material provided by Seller are primary and material requirements of this Agreement.  In addition to any other rights or remedy available to Buyer under this Agreement, Buyer reserves the right to assure, throughout the term of this Agreement, Seller s continued commitment to Quality and Seller agrees to take appropriate steps, as noted by Buyer, to improve Seller s commitment to Quality. 
   
 Seller will demonstrate commitment to a Quality Improvement Process by providing to Buyer on an annual basis: 
   
 1.  
 A published statement of its quality policy signed by an officer of the company; 
   
 2.  
 An established means of measuring and reporting customer satisfaction; 
   
 3.  
 A quality training and awareness program; 
   
 4.  
 A continuous quality Improvement Process; 
   
 5.  
 An established means of monitoring conformance to requirements for products; and 
   
 6.  
 An established in-coming Material Quality Inspection Program. 
   
  38.  
   RECORD AND AUDIT   
   
 Seller shall maintain complete and accurate RECORDS of all amounts billable to and payments made by Buyer hereunder in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices.  Seller shall retain such RECORDS for a period of three (3) years from the date of final payment for Printing Services covered by this Agreement.  Seller agrees to provide reasonable supporting documentation concerning any disputed amount of invoice to Buyer within thirty (30) days after Buyer provides written notification of the dispute to Seller.   
   
  39.  
   REJECTIONS   
   
 If Buyer rejects any or all of the directories, Buyer may exercise the following remedies: (1) return rejected directories for full credit at the price charge plus transportation charges from Seller s plant and return; and (2) accept a conforming part of any shipment and rejected directories replaced by Seller at the purchase price stipulated in this Agreement if Buyer has not previously paid for those directories and at Seller s expense if Buyer has previously paid for the directories. The above rejection options are in addition to any and all recourse Buyer wishes to take regarding termination for non-performance under the TERMINATION clause. 
   
 Seller agrees that in the event Buyer rejects any or all directories, Seller will, if requested by Buyer, use its best efforts to replace said directories immediately or as soon as practical. 
   
  40.  
   REPRINT   
 If the Buyer decides to reprint the title, Seller must reprint the required quantity for that title.  Seller must reprint the directory within a reasonable time and at the prices found in the PRICE SCHEDULES, Attachment I, Sections A through D. 
   
 Seller will reduce MAKEREADY prices by 33% for all reprints.  If Seller is allowed a reasonable time to reprint any title, Seller will guarantee no overtime premium charges. 

41.  
   SCHEDULES   
   
 To assist Seller in providing for Buyer s requirements Buyer shall submit SCHEDULE requests, in a form similar to Attachment II   SCHEDULE, on December 1st of each year of the Agreement for the Spring production and on May 1 st  for the Fall production of the succeeding year, indicating Buyer s total requirements for the work hereunder, including Buyer s total quantities, number of pages, number of colors to be printed, special section requirements, in a form similar to Attachment III   FORECAST, and directory ship dates for each issue.  These SCHEDULE requests shall be used by Seller to devise a final production SCHEDULE which specifies the work flow and method of manufacture for each directory.  
   
 If an individual SCHEDULE request or print order changes the date upon which final copy is due, compared to the due date in the previous year, or increase the number of printed pages or bound directories in excess of 10% over the last actual printed page count or bound directories in the preceding year for that directory, it may become necessary to revise, by mutual agreement, the production SCHEDULE and manufacturing plan for that directory. 
   
  42.  
   SEVERABILITY   
 In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein shall, for any reason, be held to be unenforceable in any respect, such unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of this Agreement, but this Agreement shall then be construed as if such unenforceable provision or provisions never had been contained herein. 
   
  43.  
   SURVIVAL   
 All obligations hereunder on Seller s part incurred prior to the cancellation, termination, or expiration of this Agreement or any order placed hereunder by Buyer shall survive such cancellation, termination, or expiration. 
   
  44.  
   TAXES   
 Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Buyer shall reimburse Seller only for the following Tax Payments and returns with respect to transactions under this Agreement, Federal Manufacturers  and Retailers  excise taxes, state and local sales taxes and use taxes, as applicable.  Taxes payable by Buyer shall be billed as separate items on Seller s invoices. 
   
 The cost of Federal Insurance Contribution Act and Federal and State Unemployment Insurance Taxes are not included in the prices set forth in Attachment I - PRICE SCHEDULES, Section B only.  Rates currently in effect are reflected on Attachment VI and are hereby incorporated into this Agreement.  In the event of any increase or decrease in such rates or in the percentage of Seller s payroll subject to such taxes occasioned by legislative changes or changes in Seller s experience rating or in the event the Seller is required to pay any additional payroll tax on account of any work or act performed under this Agreement, the prices set forth in Attachment I - PRICE SCHEDULE, Section B only, and the Social Security Tax Factors set forth in Attachment VII shall be adjusted to reflect any such new, increased or decreased tax. 
   
 If the Seller is required to pay an excise, privilege, processing, gross receipts or similar tax not now imposed on account of any act required for the performance of this Agreement, the cost of such new or increased tax shall be added as an extra charge. 
   
 In no event shall Buyer be obligated to make to Seller any payment for or reimbursement of taxes or other levies on Seller based upon or measured by Seller s net income. 
   
  45.  
   TERMINATION   
 In addition to the expiration of this Agreement as provided herein, and in addition to the parties  rights of termination specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement, this Agreement may be terminated as set forth below: 
   
 (1) 
 Termination for Breach 
   
 In the event that Seller breaches any material obligation hereunder, including without limitation any of its obligations with respect to quality, specification, or delivery schedules (for which time is of the essence), Buyer shall give Seller written notice specifying in reasonable detail the breach and requesting that the breach be cured (the  CURE NOTICE ).  If Seller fails to cure the specified breach within five business days of receipt of the Cure Notice, Buyer shall have the right to terminate this Agreement effective immediately upon the giving of written notice of termination to Seller. 
   
 (2) 
 Insolvency 
   
 Upon the occurrence of an Insolvency Event of Default (as defined below), the other party may, at its option, terminate this Agreement effective immediately upon the giving of written notice of termination.  The occurrence of any one or more of the following events shall constitute an  Insolvency Event of Default : a party admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally or makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; an affirmative act of insolvency by a party of any partition or action, under any bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency arrangement, liquidation, dissolution or moratorium law, or any other law or laws for the relief of, or relating to debtors; or the subjection of a material part of a party s property to any levy, seizure, assignment or sale for or by any creditor, third party or governmental agency. 
   
 (3) 
 Additional Rights 
   
 The rights of termination set forth above shall be in addition to any other rights and remedies the terminating party may have hereunder or at law or in equity. 
   
  46.  
   THIRD PARTY CLAIMS   
   
 Seller shall reimburse Buyer for any loss or expense arising out of claims made by subscribers or advertisers by reason of any errors or omissions in subscriber or yellow page directories caused by Seller or any subcontractor of Seller.  Seller s LIABILITY shall be limited to $1,500 for each such claim based on such error or omission.  Seller agrees to acknowledge or to disavow Seller s responsibility for a claim within thirty (30) days of Buyer s written notification to the Seller. 
   
  47.  
   TITLE   
   
 TITLE to the directories shall vest in Buyer when the directory has been loaded on the transport vehicle at  Seller s loading dock.  In any event, and regardless of which party holds formal title, Seller agrees to insure all directories and other materials while those materials are in Seller s facilities.  Seller agrees to pay to Buyer any insurance proceeds it receives in connection with, or relating to, any directories or other property of Buyer located at Seller s premises. 
   
  48.  
   TRANSPORTATION   
 Directories shipped by Seller via common carrier and according to routing instruction shall be shipped F.O.B. Origin, Freight Collect with instructions to the carrier to forward the original freight bill and copy of bill of lading to Seller which in turn will charge Buyer for such costs without additional mark-up of any kind.  Directories shipped by Seller via U.S. Mail shall be delivered to  the Post Office in the same city of Seller at no extra charge to the Buyer.  Postage shall be prepaid by Seller and invoiced to Buyer as a separate item accompanied by receipts.  Seller agrees to ship all initial distribution quantities out of plant via U.S. Mail. 
   
  49.  
   USE OF INFORMATION   
 All INFORMATION in written, printed, graphic or other form furnished to Seller under this Agreement or in contemplation of this Agreement remains Buyer s property, shall be kept confidential by Seller and shall be returned to Buyer at Buyer s request.  Seller agrees that such INFORMATION shall be used solely for the production of the directories and that Seller shall not use or permit others to use such INFORMATION or any part thereof, printed or otherwise, for any other purpose unless so directed in writing by Buyer.  Seller shall keep confidential and safeguard all INFORMATION covered by this Agreement now and hereafter in Seller s possession and prevent their use by any other person or persons.  Seller shall promptly destroy all extra proofs and copies of any of the directory or portion thereof. 
   
  50.  
   WARRANTY   
 Seller warrants that the Printing Services furnished will be free from defects in material and workmanship and will conform to the specifications, drawings, samples and instructions.  Seller also warrants that the Printing Services will be performed in a first class, workmanlike manner.  All warranties shall survive inspection, acceptance and payment. 
   
  51.  
   WORK DONE BY OTHERS   
 If any part of the Printing Services performed by Seller under this Agreement is dependent upon work done by others (including but not limited to plating, presswork, and binding material composed or furnished by Buyer or another supplier), Seller shall inspect and promptly report to Buyer any defect that renders such other work unsuitable for Seller s proper performance.  Seller s silence shall constitute approval of such other work as fit, proper and suitable for Seller s performance of the Services under this Agreement. 
   
  52.  
   EXECUTION   
 Authorized representatives of Buyer and Seller hereby execute this Agreement including the Attachments and/or appendices attached hereto and made a part hereof. 

QUEBECOR WORLD HAZLETON INC. 

By:  
  /s/ Kevin J. Chandler  
   
 Name:     
  Kevin J. Chandler  
   
 Title:  
  President, Book   Directory  

CBD MEDIA, LLC 

By:   
  /s/ Douglas A. Myers  
   
 Name:    
  Douglas A. Myers  
   
 Title: 
  President   CEO  

[INSERT ATTACHMENTS HERE] 

</EX-10>

<EX-10>
 3
 cbdmedia.pdf

</EX-10>

