<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_912241_0000936392-06-000298_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1318133</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>404321</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>27434</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>560219</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>75</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000936392-06-000298.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331162859
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000936392-06-000298
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PROGRESSIVE GAMING INTERNATIONAL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000912241
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES [3990]
		IRS NUMBER:				880218876
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NV
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-22752
		FILM NUMBER:		06729281

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		920 PILOT ROAD
		CITY:			LAS VEGAS
		STATE:			NV
		ZIP:			89119
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7028963890

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		920 PILOT ROAD
		CITY:			LAS VEGAS
		STATE:			NV
		ZIP:			89119

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MIKOHN GAMING CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19930920

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CvfW3I5jC8bgBArW/dr5egGkSShpVxnkPpwdtNZ3alBLCnlfyhGj/BR5MSv0SEXu
 X79CDrIlESKRq24IC40opA==

 0000936392-06-000298.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a18352e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

For The Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005 

OR 

For the transition period from                      to                      . 

Commission File No. 0-30989 

Progressive Gaming International Corporation 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  (702) 896-3890 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 NONE 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, $.10 par value  
(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. 
Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer  and  large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
     Large accelerated filer
    Accelerated filer     Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2). 
     Yes     No    

The aggregate market value of the common stock of the registrant as of June 30, 2005 held by
non-affiliates was $343,549,219.

The
number of shares outstanding of the registrant s common stock
was 34,367,416 as of
March 28, 2006.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Portions of the registrant s Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection with the 2006
Annual Meeting of Stockholders incorporated herein by reference into Part III of this Report. Such
Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed with the Commission not later than 120 days after December
31, 2005.

CAUTIONARY NOTICE 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include the words  may,   will,   estimate, 
 intend,   continue,   expect,  or  anticipate,  and other similar words. Statements expressing
expectations regarding our future (including pending gaming and patent approvals) and projections
relating to products, sales, revenues and earnings are typical of such statements.

All forward-looking statements, although reasonable and made in good faith, are subject to the
risks and uncertainties inherent in predicting the future. Our actual results may differ materially
from those projected, stated or implied in these forward-looking statements as a result of many
factors, including, but not limited to, overall industry environment, customer acceptance of the
Company s new products, delay in the introduction of new products, the further approvals of
regulatory authorities, adverse court rulings, production and/or quality control problems, the
denial, suspension or revocation of privileged operating licenses by governmental authorities,
competitive pressures and general economic conditions, the Company s financial condition and debt
service obligations. These and other factors that may affect our results are discussed more fully
in  Competition ,  Risk Factors ,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  and elsewhere in this Annual Report.

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Readers are warned that we
undertake no obligation to update or revise such statements to reflect new circumstances or
unanticipated events as they occur, and are urged to review and consider disclosures we make in
this and other reports that discuss factors germane to our business. See particularly our reports
on Forms 10-K, 10-K/A, 10-Q, 10-Q/A and 8-K filed from time to time with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.

PROGRESSIVE GAMING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE 
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PART I 

1 

Item 1. Business 

1 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

15 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

28 

Item 2. Properties 

28 

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 

28 

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

29 

PART II 

29 

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Stock, Related Security Holder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

29 

Item 6. Selected Financial Data 

31 

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

32 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

38 

Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

39 

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 

71 

Item 9B. Other Information 

74 

PART III 

74 

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

74 

Item 11. Executive Compensation 

74 

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

74 

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

74 

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

74 

PART IV 

74 

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

74 

EXHIBIT 10.11    
     EXHIBIT 10.12    
     EXHIBIT 10.19    
     EXHIBIT 21.1    
     EXHIBIT 23.1    
     EXHIBIT 31.1    
     EXHIBIT 31.2    
     EXHIBIT 32.1    
     EXHIBIT 32.2    

Table of Contents   

PART I 

Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We develop, acquire and distribute innovative table and slot game content as well as software
products to meet the needs of gaming operators worldwide. Our products include the following:

Table and Slot Games.  We develop, acquire, license and distribute
proprietary branded and non-branded table and slot games. Our
proprietary game content is designed to provide casino patrons an
entertaining and enjoyable gaming experience and thereby generate
greater revenues for customers than other games available in the
market. Our table game products include Caribbean Stud , Texas Hold Em
Bonus  poker (also available with World Series of Poker  branding
through agreement with Harrah s), Two-Card Joker poker, Progressive
Blackjack, Progressive Baccarat, and several other blackjack and poker
derivatives. Our slot game content library includes licensed branded
game offerings based upon popular brands such as Ripley s Believe It
or Not! , Clue , Dick Clark  Rock, Roll and Remember, Trivial
Pursuit , Garfield , KISS , the Beach Boys, Celia Cruz, Tito Puente,
Ed McMahon, and Wink Martindale. In addition, we offer other
non-branded games and mystery concepts such as Flip It , Graveyard
Bash , Office Daze , Kazoingo  and Liberty Ball . 

Management and Progressive Jackpot Software Systems.  Under the
umbrella of CasinoLink  Enterprise Edition, we offer a modular,
comprehensive and fully integrated suite of software products that
enables casinos to track the wagers placed by both table and slot
players as well as accurately account for the performance of each
table and slot game. Our customers utilize this data to increase the
productivity of their marketing programs and enhance the security of
each game, which in turn helps increase their operating efficiency and
profitability. With CasinoLink  Enterprise Edition, gaming operators
can also implement their own progressive jackpots and bonusing to
increase the appeal of games through the opportunity to win larger
prizes to provide real-time marketing at each game station. 

We were incorporated in Nevada in May 1986.

Recent Developments 

During 2005 we introduced the Texas Hold Em Bonus  poker game, a new proprietary table game with
patented side bet technology that is installed in leading casinos such as The Borgata, Caesars
Palace Atlantic City, Hilton Atlantic City, Ameristar Casinos Kansas City, the Rio, Flamingo
Hilton, Silver Legacy, Bally s, Paris, and Harrah s Rincon, and at many properties on the Las Vegas
Strip and throughout Nevada. We received approval for this game in all major U.S. jurisdictions,
including Nevada, in 2005. In addition, in 2005 we announced our plans to introduce an enhanced
version of this game with the World Series of Poker  brand, and as of March 2006, regulatory
approval has been received in all major U.S. jurisdictions except Mississippi, where approval is
pending. Under an agreement with Harrah s Licensing Company, LLC, owner of the World Series of
Poker , we have begun to introduce the new game at Harrah s properties nationwide and the
properties of other casino operators.

Rapid Bet Live   is our new real-time sports wagering system that allows patrons to place live,
real-time wagers while a game is being played. On March 4, 2006, Rapid Bet Live   commenced a 30
day field trial at the Palms Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas.

On November 28, 2005, we acquired EndX, a global gaming management systems software company
headquartered in the United Kingdom, for approximately $29.2 million in cash, including transaction
costs. EndX had been one of our key strategic partners for over three years. The EndX Intelligence
product suite is currently installed in over 175 gaming centers in approximately 20 countries
worldwide, including centers operated by the three major gaming operators located in the United
Kingdom. The EndX product has been integrated as a part of CasinoLink  Enterprise Edition. The
modules of EndX include cage and cash management, player marketing, table games accounting, and
surveillance and alerts monitoring. In addition, we and EndX previously created a version of
TableLink  for the international market. Significant North American multi-site installations that
have been completed or are in the process of being installed include 17 sites for the British
Columbia Lottery Corporation and four sites for the Saskatchewan Indian Gaming Authority.

To support what we expect will be an eventual shift from traditional, stand-alone slot games to
central server-based gaming, we acquired VirtGame in October 2005. VirtGame was a provider of open
architecture gaming software primarily focused on the delivery of central-server based slot games
and centrally managed sports betting.

In June 2005, to provide our customers with the next generation of radio frequency identification,
or RFID, technology in our table systems products, we entered into a worldwide exclusive license,
for the life of the subject patents, with Magellan, a developer of

- 1 -

Table of Contents   

advanced, high-speed, ISO-compliant RFID systems. Through this technology we are now able to offer
casinos 13.56-megahertz high-frequency technology that utilizes thin flat antennas which our
internal testing indicates is significantly faster than the technology we previously offered
casinos. We licensed, on an exclusive basis, Magellan s rights to its RFID reader, tag and related
intellectual property for any gaming applications and have also purchased a minority equity
position in Magellan.

In June 2005, we also entered into initial strategic agreements with IGT and Shuffle Master to
create a comprehensive Intelligent Table System  or ITS. This system combines our TableLink 
software module which provides RFID bet recognition capability, with IGT s table management
systems, including TableTouch tm , and Shuffle Master s automatic shufflers, IBR optical
card reading shoes and other accessories. We and IGT will be responsible for selling and
distributing the Table Manager  and Chip Manager  portions of the ITS suite of products and any
other products developed by us under the definitive agreements. Shuffle Master will become our
preferred vendor for automatic card shufflers, IBR optical card shoes and other key accessory
products. We are working towards definitive agreements relating to the development and sale of the
ITS, but can provide no assurances as to when such agreements will be entered into or if such
agreements will be entered into at all.

During the second quarter of 2005, we commenced the process of repositioning our existing slot
platform, which includes a focus on developing content through third-party developers. Our goal is
to leverage our existing installed base and transition from the existing model to slot games
delivered in a central server-based environment.

During the second quarter of 2005, we completed the sale of our interior signage division. With
the completion of this sale and the repositioning of the business to be content and technology
focused, the Company has revised its segment reporting to more closely reflect the manner in which
the business is managed.

During the first quarter of 2005, we completed our acquisition of the table games management
system, PitTrak , including its existing customer base. PitTrak  has similar functionality as
TableLink  and provides us with an existing installed base of over 400 tables and access to sell
its management solutions worldwide.

During 2005 we entered into several arrangements to develop and license slot content. We continue
to increase our pipeline of new slot game content to replace legacy slot brands as they expire or
decline in popularity. In December 2005 our license arrangement with Hasbro for the Yahtzee  and
Battleship  brands expired. However, we have recently introduced new brands such as KISS , the
Beach Boys  and Ed McMahon as well as 34 non-branded slot titles. We expect our revenues from
legacy brands to decline but anticipate an increase in revenues from this new pipeline
of slot content during 2006.

Industry Overview 

Global Gaming Industry   Market Size 

In North America, based on estimates provided by Casino City Press, gaming revenues have
increased from approximately $43.3 billion in 2001 to approximately $54.1 billion in 2004,
representing a 7.7% compound annual growth rate. Such figures include gaming revenues from
commercial casinos, Native American casinos and card rooms and exclude gaming revenues from cruise
ships, sports books, pari-mutuel wagering, charity bingos and lotteries. We believe the continued
growth in the gaming industry will help drive an increase in demand for gaming products. In 2004,
there were approximately 49,000 table games and 2,143,000 gaming machines (excluding electronic
bingo and amusements with prizes) installed worldwide, of which an estimated 26,000 table games and
850,000 gaming machines were installed in North America. Gaming activities are currently legal in
38 states in the United States and 10 provinces and territories in Canada.

Growth of the Gaming Industry 

We believe consumer demand in the gaming industry has been and continues to be driven by
several trends, including:

Rising social acceptability and popularity of gaming as a leisure
activity.  The gaming industry has grown with the rising popularity and
social acceptability of gaming as a leisure activity. According to the
American Gaming Association, more than one in five Americans (21%) has
developed a more favorable view of casino gaming over the past five to
ten years. We believe the proliferation of poker television
programming and poker tournaments has also contributed to the
continued increase in consumer spending on gaming. 

Improvement in the breadth and quality of gaming offerings. 
Technological advancements have played a critical role in expanding
the breadth and improving the quality of gaming offerings. Advanced
audio and video capabilities have made slot games more appealing by
enabling innovative game content and multi-line, multi-denomination
game play, while secondary events, such as progressive jackpots and
other bonusing features, have increased the overall entertainment
value by providing players the chance to 

- 2 -

Table of Contents   

win additional prizes. Patron
convenience has also been improved with developments in cashless
technology and the use of ticketing with bill validators. We believe
that effective promotion of patron loyalty programs by gaming
operators has caused patrons to increase their number of annual visits
and in turn, increase their gaming and non-gaming expenditures. With
the potential regulatory approval of central server-based and
downloadable technologies, which will allow players to access a number
of different games and other features from one machine, we believe
there will be additional growth and replacements in the slot machine
sector. Similarly, we believe recent technological breakthroughs and
innovations in table game management, including player, chip and game
tracking capabilities that enable gaming operators to accurately
analyze and reward patrons, may lead to similar increased player
appeal for table games. 

Legalization of gaming in several U.S. States.  Since the beginning of
2004, the legislatures or gaming authorities of several U.S. states,
including those in Pennsylvania, Florida, Oklahoma and Maine, have
permitted for legalization or expansion of gaming activities within
their respective states. Other state legislatures, such as that of
Massachusetts, are considering gaming legislation to generate
additional tax revenue and stimulate economic development. 

Proliferation of Native American casino gaming.  Native American gaming
represents the fastest growing segment of the North American gaming
industry. Gaming revenues from Native American casinos have increased
from $12.7 billion in 2001 to $19.0 billion in 2004, representing a
14.2% compound annual growth rate. As of 2005, there were 581
federally recognized Native American tribes, many of which operate
gaming facilities, and 161 Native American tribes who have applied for
federal recognition. 

International expansion.  Internationally, we anticipate further growth
and expansion in regions such as Macau, Russia, the United Kingdom and
the Baltic states. We expect Macau to become the largest gaming
market, by revenue, in the world, and growth is expected to continue
under its efforts to redevelop the island of Cotai into a Las
Vegas-like gaming and entertainment destination market. 

Products 
Table and Slot Games Segment 

Our proprietary game content is designed to provide casino patrons an entertaining and enjoyable
gaming experience and thereby generate greater revenues for customers than other games available in
the market.

Table Games.  We are a leading developer and distributor of proprietary table game content with an
installed base of 906 revenue producing games as of December 31, 2005. We have a library of
proprietary poker and blackjack derivative table game content that features well-recognized brands,
secondary bets and progressive jackpots to enhance player appeal. Our key games include, among
others, Caribbean Stud , Texas Hold Em Bonus  poker and Progressive Blackjack . Our exciting
 Progressive Jackpot  feature for table games lets players set aside separate wagers for a chance
to win a single, ever-growing, casino-wide or single table jackpot.

In October 2002, we signed an agreement with Rank Group Gaming, to debut what to our knowledge was
the world s first operational wide-area progressive jackpot system for table games. Operating on
our CasinoLink  Jackpot Station module, the Super Stud Poker wide-area progressive operates in
nearly all of Rank s 30 casinos in the United Kingdom.

Our Caribbean Stud  franchise is one of the most popular proprietary table games in the world. As
of December 31, 2005, approximately 660 of our Caribbean Stud  tables were in service worldwide. In
2005, we introduced a new table game titled Caribbean Stud    Diamond Edition. Through the use of
wide area progressive technology, Caribbean Stud    Diamond Edition offers players the opportunity
to win a multi-site  progressive  jackpot.

With the increasing popularity of poker, we recently introduced the Texas Hold Em Bonus  poker
game, a new proprietary table game that is installed in leading casinos such as The Borgata,
Caesars Palace Atlantic City, Hilton Atlantic City, Ameristar Casinos Kansas City, the Rio,
Flamingo Hilton, Silver Legacy, Bally s, Paris, and Harrah s Rincon, and at many properties on the
Las Vegas Strip and throughout Nevada. The Texas Hold Em Bonus  poker game with its patented side
bet technology, brings a new level of excitement to table game poker rooms and pit areas. Two cards
are dealt to each player; two cards to the dealer; and five community cards are dealt face-up in
the center for both players and dealers to use in any combination (three, four or all of the five
community cards) to form the highest-ranked poker hand. All wagers (ante, bonus, flop, turn and
river) are made by the players before receiving and viewing the cards, each step of the way. An
optional bonus jackpot wager (side bet) is based on a player s starting hand, and allows players to
win based on the posted pay table. We received approval for this game in all major U.S.
jurisdictions, including Nevada, in 2005. In addition, in 2005 we announced our plans to introduce
an enhanced version of this game with the World Series of Poker  brand under an agreement with Harrah s Licensing
Company, LLC, owner of the World Series of Poker , and as of March 2006,
regulatory approval has been received in all major U.S. jurisdictions except Mississippi, where
approval is pending. We believe that the similarities between the Texas Hold Em Bonus  poker game
and the non-proprietary game

- 3 -

Table of Contents   

will help contribute to its success, and we are encouraged by the initial success of this game. As
of December 31, 2005, we had an installed base of approximately 145 Texas Hold Em Bonus  poker
games.

Slot Games.  Our slot game content library includes branded game offerings based upon popular brands
such as Ripley s Believe It or Not!  , Clue , Dick Clark  Rock, Roll and Remember, Trivial
Pursuit , Garfield , KISS , the Beach Boys, Celia Cruz, Tito Puente, Ed McMahon, and Wink
Martindale. We also continue to offer additional non-branded games and mystery concepts such as
Flip It , Graveyard Bash , Office Daze , Liberty Ball  and Kazoingo .

In 2003, we shifted our slot game focus to the development and licensing of game content for
deployment in our markets through outsourcing partnerships with third party manufacturers and
distributors of slot machines. To access leading technology and enhance our operating margins, we
have entered into strategic alliances to develop our proprietary game content on our alliance
partners  systems and technology. Accordingly, we receive revenue not only from the existing fixed
rental payments or revenue participation from gaming devices that we have placed in casinos, but
also from license fees for game content provided to multiple third parties for use on their game
hardware. In these arrangements, our alliance partners typically provide any hardware and/or
ongoing maintenance. We also have certain development contracts whereby other suppliers have
agreed to incorporate our intellectual property and game content into their slot platforms or other
proprietary products.

During the second quarter of 2005, we commenced the process of repositioning our existing slot
platform, which includes a focus on developing content through third-party developers. Our goal is
to leverage our existing installed base and transition from the existing model to slot games
delivered in a central server-based environment.

To facilitate the use of our slot game content, we developed a Ticket-In Ticket-Out, or TITO,
feature to be incorporated into our owned slot games. TITO is an alternative payment method to coin
handling on the casino slot floor. Gaming operators can program a slot machine to pay a slot
payout, or a portion thereof, with a ticket. The ticket can then be reinserted into another TITO
slot machine, be exchanged for cash at a cashier s station or held by the player and used at a
later time. We received approval in all major jurisdictions for TITO in 2004 except Nevada, where
approval is still pending.

In August 2004, we signed a license and development agreement with IGT to license segments of our
patent portfolio of technology and to develop video slot games based on our content, for a term
continuing until the last to expire of the patent rights under the agreement. The new games are to
be developed on IGT s game platform and distributed by us. Pursuant to this agreement, IGT also
licenses aspects of its intellectual property to us for its games and we are committed to purchase
from IGT a minimum of 600 slot machines carrying our game content on them over the life of the
agreement. In June 2005, IGT purchased from us a worldwide license, with the right to grant
sublicenses, to certain of the patents subject to the August 2004 agreement. Under this 2005
agreement, we are restricted from further licensing these patents. In addition, pursuant to the
2005 agreement, IGT has the right to convert its worldwide license into a 100% ownership interest
with respect to any or all of the subject patents at any time within 18 months of the agreement.

We lease our table and slot games and license content to customers in exchange for recurring
revenues consisting of (i) fixed periodic fees, (ii) a percentage of the  net win  ( net win 
produced by a gaming device is defined as gross revenues minus all jackpots, payouts and any
approved claims) of the gaming devices for our more popular titles or (iii) license fees for any
proprietary slot game content provided to third parties for use on their game hardware. We also
receive one-time license fees for our table and slot game content.

Systems Segment 

We market our suite of software systems under the CasinoLink  Enterprise Edition umbrella. This
modular, comprehensive and fully integrated suite of software products centralizes gaming
management, including functions such as slots and tables monitoring, reporting and accounting
across all casino properties, improving efficiency, tightening security and surveillance, and
lowering costs. The CasinoLink  Enterprise Edition modules run on an easy-to-use Microsoft Windows 
and SQL Server  platform. Due to its modular design, our customers can elect to integrate a
combination of features or an individual feature into their casino with limited disruption and
compatibility issues with their existing back-end systems. The various CasinoLink  Enterprise
Edition modules are summarized in the following chart:

- 4 -

Table of Contents   

Table Management Modules.  The Intelligent Table System  (ITS) product brings to the table games
sector the benefits of accurate
and automated data collection and player tracking that we believe was previously seen only in the
slot machine sector. ITS is a modular, comprehensive and fully integrated suite of software
products that enables casinos to track player activity, monitor games through chip tracking and bet
recognition, and provide real time accounting for table games. The information can be interfaced
with the casino s main database, such as our CasinoLink    Slot Management module or several other
vendors  management systems, and used for rewarding players, generating marketing information and
enhancing game security. We believe that improved accuracy and player-initiated ratings are very
useful to the casino in identifying and directing complimentary benefits to the customer, and
ultimately improving customer loyalty. We believe this solution also enables casinos to better
secure the chip activity at their tables and also detect counterfeit chips, while allowing them to
redirect supervisor time from administrative to customer-relationship and other tasks.

The Intelligent Table System is available in the following three tiers:

Table Manager   is the base product upon which the Chip Manager  and
Card Manager  product offerings are built. Table Manager  employs
magnetic player identification card readers and touch-screen computer
displays at each gaming table or at the pit stand. Table Manager 
allows dealers to input a player s time and average bets at the tables
for tracking purposes after the player identification card is scanned
by the magnetic card reader. 

Chip Manager   can be utilized in conjunction with Table Manager  for
an even more detailed view of table play. With Chip Manager , manual
inputs to track wagers are eliminated by utilizing sensors located at
each player position at the table that automatically scan RFID casino
chips, which are embedded with microchips that transmit encrypted
radio frequency signals. The use of RFID casino chips enables casinos
to track the amount wagered in real time, detect counterfeit casino
chips and minimize cheating. This real-time data enables our customers
to increase casino patron loyalty by more accurately assigning player
ratings and more effectively directing complimentary benefits. It also
enables casinos to detect counterfeit chips and allows them to
redirect supervisor time from administration to customer-relationship
and other tasks. In addition, through our agreement with Magellan, we
now offer our customers next-generation 13.56-megahertz high-frequency
technology that utilizes thin flat antennas and according to our
internal tests significantly increases the speed of chip recognition.
For example, our internal testing shows that Chip Manager  is now
capable of reading 100 RFID casino chips in approximately 0.2 seconds.
We also believe this technology will support the development of
further RFID products suitable for expanding customer service and
player tracking. 

Card Manager   utilizes Image Based Recognition (IBR) for reading
playing cards as they are dealt and which adds yet another level of
data analysis by allowing for the monitoring of player betting
patterns and the recording of game results. This level of the ITS
product is provided by Shuffle Master. Card Manager  enables gaming
operators to better understand the skill level of their patrons, helps
minimize dealer mistakes and facilitates detection of card-counting
and cheating. 

As of December 31, 2005, our table management systems were installed in over 47 casinos in North
America, Australia, Europe and South Africa, with an installed base of approximately 1,980 tables,
of which approximately 24% use RFID technology to track and measure wagers. We believe that the
adoption of RFID technology will increase significantly with the implementation of Magellan s
technology.

The Company and IGT will be responsible for the sale and distribution of Table Manager  and Chip
Manager , and Shuffle Master will be responsible for the sale and distribution of Card Manager .
Pursuant to our product development agreement with Shuffle

- 5 -

Table of Contents   

Master and IGT, we agreed not to
manufacture or sell intelligent shoe products for a period of three years, although we may
sublicense our IBR patents to third parties. We are working towards definitive agreements relating
to the development and sale of the ITS, but can provide no assurances as to when such agreements
will be entered into or if such agreements will be entered into at all.

Slot Management Modules.  Our Slot Management modules incorporate our existing CasinoLink    Player
Tracking and CasinoLink    Slot Management modules.

CasinoLink      Player Tracking:  CasinoLink    Player Tracking is composed
of micro controller-based printed circuit boards installed within slot
machines, as well as card readers, displays and keypads that provide
casinos with the ability to track player gaming activity and monitor
employee access to slot machines. 

CasinoLink      Slot Management:  Our CasinoLink    Slot Management module
provides gaming operators with robust, highly scalable applications
for accounting and auditing, administration and security and
marketing. This module is comprised of firmware that provides access
to player activity data gathered by the CasinoLink    Player Tracking
module. This system also provides access to slot machine activity,
including security events, revenue, expenses and other financial
reporting metrics. This module is well suited to fulfill the
requirements of large, geographically dispersed gaming operators who
require multi-site capability. 

As of December 31, 2005, our CasinoLink    Slot Management modules have been installed in more than
187 gaming sites worldwide, monitoring approximately 49,700 gaming machines. We have a significant
number of gaming system installations in Canada, including in the multi-site, provincial lottery
corporations of Alberta, British Columbia, Ontario and Saskatchewan. In the European market we have
stand-alone installations in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Ukraine, Finland, Greece and Italy,
as well as multi-site installations in Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, The Netherlands, The Slovak
Republic, Slovenia and Sweden. In the Asia Pacific market, CasinoLink    is installed in Macau and
Australia. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we entered into an agreement with a large gaming
supplier to install our CasinoLink    product in Class II jurisdictions.

Server-Based Gaming Modules.  We are currently developing a suite of centrally managed server-based
gaming modules that include CasinoLink    Game Station  and the CasinoLink    Sports Station modules of
PrimeLine  and Rapid Bet Live .

CasinoLink      Game Station :  The CasinoLink    Game Station  module will
allow patrons to enjoy a variety of software-based casino games,
ranging from slot games to Keno, while sitting at the same gaming
machine. To enhance profitability, gaming operators will be able to
select the game mix and denominations across the casino floor on a
real-time basis. 

CasinoLink      Sports Station s PrimeLine  and Rapid Bet Live :  The
PrimeLine  and Rapid Bet Live  modules will allow patrons to engage in
sports wagering activities, utilizing thin client technology, directly
from a gaming machine or a remote device, including traditional game
outcome wagers, bet-by-event or play wagering, and simulated sports
betting. On March 4, 2006, Rapid Bet Live   commenced a 30 day field
trial at the Palms Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas. 

We believe the utilization of our central server-based gaming modules will allow gaming operators
to minimize game replacement costs, offer greater convenience to patrons and increase flexibility
to reconfigure the gaming machine area. To expedite our central server-based development efforts,
we acquired VirtGame, a gaming software developer primarily focused on central server-based slot
games and centrally managed sports betting, in October 2005. VirtGame was a Nevada Gaming
Commission licensed provider of innovative sports book software systems and server-based, networked
gaming software for regulation gaming applications. VirtGame s technology platform is scalable and
customizable, enabling gaming on any hardware platform including personal computers, hand-held
devices and mobile phones. We are integrating VirtGame s technologies into our CasinoLink   
Enterprise Edition architecture to support what we expect will be an eventual shift from
traditional, stand-alone slot games to central server-based gaming.

CasinoLink      Jackpot Station (CJS) Module.  CJS allows gaming operators to bring a multi-site,
multi-level bonusing and jackpot system in-house and link both slot machines and table games to one
or more progressive jackpots. The CJS system is designed to connect directly to the gaming
operator s existing casino management systems and permits them to adjust the jackpot frequencies
and levels in response to competitive factors in order to increase repeat visits by patrons.

Progressive Jackpot.  To create a jackpot, our CJS system monitors play
on one or more slot machines or table games and accumulates, in
real-time, a predetermined percentage of each bet. This jackpot
increases continuously until won by a player and then can be reset
automatically to accumulate subsequent jackpots. 

Bonusing.  Bonusing technology enables the design and delivery of
bonuses and other promotions directly to players at the point and time
of play, right at their favorite game. A bonusing system provides a
cash bonus, which can be random or preset separate 

- 6 -

Table of Contents   

from the normal
payout for a winning combination, and can be structured to award a
player just for playing, with no winning reel combination or minimum
coin-in required. While bonus amounts are typically lower than the top
progressive payout for the game, the frequency is higher, providing a
valuable marketing tool for stimulating, extending and increasing the
rate of play. 

WagerLink  Cashless Module.  Our WagerLink  Cashless module allows for electronic funds wagering
from a gaming device. This product is currently developed as a module of our CasinoLink    products,
and the first site for this product went live in October 2005 at Casino Municipale di Venezia in
Venice, Italy. The WagerLink  Cashless Module will also be adapted to interface with our central
server-based gaming modules and ITS products. These developments will offer seamless cashless
transactions for each gaming module managed within the CasinoLink    Enterprise Edition product
suite.

Other Products 

Under a licensing agreement with XpertX, Inc., we hold, except in the case of Nevada, the exclusive
worldwide distribution rights to the XpertX Keno system. Key features of this Keno system include:
player tracking, including player account information, player trip history, play and win amounts
and buy-in limits; reporting functions, including customized audit and management reports and
inter-property progressive capabilities; display functions, including in-room television keno
display and advertising options; and built-in diagnostic software and disc mirroring features.

TableMAX    is a table game in video format, to which we hold the exclusive license to distribute in
certain markets. The TableMAX    video table enables multiple players to play simulated versions of
traditional casino card games. We are in the process of installing TableMAX    in various casinos in
the Oklahoma market. In March 2006 we received approval from Gaming Laboratories International to
place the progressive version of TableMAX    in California.

On November 28, 2005, we acquired EndX, a global gaming management systems software company
headquartered in the United Kingdom, for approximately $29.2 million in cash, including transaction
costs. EndX had been one of our key strategic partners for over three years. The EndX Intelligence
product suite is currently installed in over 175 gaming centers in over 20 countries worldwide,
including centers operated by the three major gaming operators located in the United Kingdom. The
EndX product has been integrated as a part of CasinoLink Enterprise Edition s Slot Management
module. The modules of EndX include cage and cash management, player marketing, table games
accounting, and surveillance and alerts monitoring. In addition, we and EndX previously created a
version of TableLink for the international market. Significant North American multi-site
installations that have been completed or are in the process of being installed include 17 sites
for the British Columbia Lottery Corporation and four sites for the Saskatchewan Indian Gaming
Authority.

We also supply a number of accessory products that allow our customers to operate a wider variety
of progressive games, provide promotional messages, animated and graphic displays, and generate
additional statistical and operating information from the slot machines linked to progressive
jackpot systems. Available accessories include controllers and displays, as well as devices to
boost electrical outputs to a large number of displays, cable and fiber-optic connectors, devices
to trigger visual or audio signals when a progressive jackpot is hit, and circuitry for the display
of progressive jackpot amounts on the screens of video slot machines. Our proprietary controllers
are designed to be compatible with the gaming equipment made by the major slot machine
manufacturers. Our controllers are licensed in almost every major U.S. gaming jurisdiction. We
believe that we have the largest installed base of controllers in the industry.

Growth Strategies 

We aim to be the leading developer and supplier of content and technology-based gaming products. To
improve productivity and profitability, we focus our resources on developing, marketing and
distributing higher growth and higher margin products that generate revenues on a recurring basis.
To achieve our objective, we have adopted the following key strategies for growth:

Increase focus on our table management modules.  We believe our table
management modules, with state-of-the-art RFID technology licensed
through Magellan, bring to the table games sector the benefits of
accurate and automated data collection and player tracking previously
seen only in the slot games sector. We believe the enhanced
performance of chip tracking, coupled with decreasing costs to
manufacture RFID-enabled chips, will accelerate the adoption of our
table management products across the approximate 49,300 table games
worldwide. To increase their marketability, we intend to also market
our table management modules as a part of ITS. As a part of the ITS
alliance, IGT will, among other things, also be responsible for
selling and distributing our portion of the ITS suite of products. 

Strengthen our leading proprietary table game franchise.  We intend to
leverage our Caribbean Stud    franchise by introducing newer versions
of this game to maintain and grow its market share. For example, in
2005 we introduced Caribbean Stud      Diamond Edition, which
incorporates our patented progressive betting feature. Additionally,
we believe the Texas Hold Em 

- 7 -

Table of Contents   

Bonus  poker game will be our next
significant table game franchise. 

Market our systems products under the CasinoLink    Enterprise Edition
umbrella.  Although our systems are capable of operating independently
of one another, we believe utilizing multiple modules of CasinoLink   
Enterprise Edition together will enhance the system s functionality.
For example, CJS enables our customers to implement their own
multi-site, multi-level progressive jackpot systems in a
cost-effective manner. When combined with our table and slot
management modules, CJS can create progressive jackpots across the
entire casino floor. We intend to highlight such value propositions in
marketing the CasinoLink    Enterprise Edition products. 

Complete the development and introduce our server-based
wagering
modules.  We are currently developing a suite of server-based gaming
modules to support what we expect will be an eventual shift towards
server-based gaming. Upon completion and approval, we will market Game
Station  and the CasinoLink    Sports Station modules of PrimeLine  and
Rapid Bet Live  as part of CasinoLink    Enterprise Edition. We intend
to utilize recently acquired VirtGame technologies to expedite our
central server-based development efforts. We showcased the
capabilities of server-based gaming at the Global Gaming Expo in
September 2005, with demonstrations of our approximately 35 slot games
for use under the Game Station  architecture. We expect that the
adoption of wireless gaming in various jurisdictions will further
accelerate the adoption of server-based wagering, primarily for
sports and poker applications. 

Continue expanding our strategic alliances.  Our strategic alliances
have allowed us to access key intellectual property and technology
assets in developing our products. We obtained exclusive rights to
next-generation RFID technology through our Magellan license
agreement. We also obtained access to leading gaming machine hardware
platforms through our alliances with IGT and Bally Gaming. We intend
to continue entering into strategic alliances in our efforts to
provide leading technology and content products to our customers. 

Segment and Geographic Information 

Financial information about segments is incorporated herein by reference to Note 19  Segment
Reporting  to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Competition 

The markets for our products are highly competitive. We compete with a number of developers and
manufacturers of table and slot game and casino management systems. Some of these competitors are
larger and have greater access to capital resources than we do. Our future performance may be
affected by numerous factors, including:

the continued popularity of our existing products and our ability to develop and introduce new products that gain
market acceptance and satisfy consumer preferences; 

our ability to maintain existing regulatory approvals and obtain future approvals in order to conduct our business; and 

our ability to protect, maintain and enforce our existing intellectual property rights and to adequately secure and
enforce such rights for new products. 

Substantially all of our products require regulatory approval. We believe that the amount of time
and money consumed in the course of obtaining licenses in new jurisdictions and new product
approvals in multiple jurisdictions constitute significant obstacles to entry or expansion by new
competitors. In addition to regulatory constraints, our intellectual property rights to patents and
trademarks help protect our products. We actively seek patent and trademark protection and
vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights.

Table and Slot Games Competition 

Table Games.  In the area of proprietary table games, we are a leading designer and distributor of
progressive jackpot table games, and we believe our patents significantly limit the ability of
competitors to offer table games with progressive or electronically enhanced side-bet features. A
significant competitor in proprietary table games is Shuffle Master, which markets Let It Ride   ,
Three Card Poker   , Fortune Pai Gow Poker    and Royal Match 21 . We also compete against
non-proprietary games such as blackjack. Our patented side-bet progressive jackpot feature, which
was developed for Caribbean Stud   , has been successfully adapted for Progressive Blackjack   , and is
adaptable for other games, including Two Card Joker Poker  and Texas Hold Em Bonus  poker. Through
the deployment of these games, we believe that we can convert industry-standard non-proprietary
table games, which are in the public domain, to proprietary games capable of producing a recurring
revenue stream for us. We believe that this proprietary feature provides us with a competitive
advantage by facilitating our ability to introduce new table games.

Slot Games.  We believe the success of many of the recent video-based games and the popularity of
many of the themed game

- 8 -

Table of Contents   

introductions is currently dictating the types of slot games being
developed. The current competitive environment is placing increasing demands on content providers,
requiring a strong pipeline of new slot games and the ability to secure rights to popular brand
names and other entertainment-oriented content suitable for adaptation for casino games. Future
growth opportunities in the gaming equipment content will result not only from a strong pipeline of
well-defined branded games, but also from new product developments and technological advancements.

Our proprietary slot games business faces both direct and indirect competition. Manufacturers that
offer proprietary games to casino operators on a lease or participation basis compete directly with
us. Direct competitors typically offer specialty, niche or novelty games. In some cases they offer
casino customers the right to purchase specialty games at premium prices or at a lower price with
ongoing license fees. Manufacturers that sell standard slot machines to casino operators also
compete with us for casino floor space and market share. We believe our new business model of
delivering increasingly more game content on third party game hardware will allow us to gain entry
into various markets and market segments in which we were previously either not present or
underrepresented. Our major slot game competitors include AC Coin   Slot Company, Alliance Gaming,
Aristocrat Leisure Ltd., the Atronic Group, International Game Technology, Konami Gaming
Corporation, Multimedia Games, Inc. and WMS Industries.

Casino Management Systems Competition 

Our CasinoLink    Enterprise Edition competes against systems from Alliance Gaming, Aristocrat,
International Game Technology,
Konami and Atronic. This market is highly competitive. Pricing, product features and functionality,
accuracy and reliability are key factors in determining a provider s success in selling its system.
Because of the high initial costs of installing a computerized monitoring system, customers for
such systems generally do not change suppliers once they have installed a system. We have been
successful primarily with customers in foreign jurisdictions that desire to monitor geographically
dispersed casinos from a centralized control facility.

We believe that our products and patents serve as a significant barrier to entry for potential
competitors. Our entry level ITS Table Manager    version competes with products marketed by Alliance
Gaming and Bravo. To our knowledge, Sensys, in partnership with Chipco International, is also
developing a competing product. We believe that our components for progressive jackpot systems
enjoy high market share and name recognition in the industry. The primary competitors for our
CasinoLink    Jackpot Station components are Aristocrat, Paltronics and IGT. We may, in the future,
face additional competition from other component manufacturers. In the placement of progressive
jackpot bonusing systems, we compete with IGT and the major slot machine manufacturers who have
developed their own proprietary gaming products that incorporate progressive jackpot bonusing
systems into their games.

Manufacturing and Assembly Operations 

In May 2005, we completed the sale of our interior signage and graphics business as part of the
realignment of our business to become a leading global provider of content and technology to the
gaming industry. Prior to the divestiture, all manufacturing activities were solely related to the
interior signage business and located in Hurricane, Utah. Throughout the year, the assembly and
warehousing of our electronic displays and progressive jackpots and systems hardware were conducted
in the same facility. Beginning in January 2006, the Company has entered into a three year
agreement with a third party contract manufacturer with facilities in Las Vegas, Nevada to assume
responsibility for the assembly, warehousing and shipping of our electronics products.

The Company s Las Vegas operation primarily assembles, warehouses and distributes proprietary table
games and slot machines purchased from third party manufacturers.

Nearly all of the components and raw materials we use in our products are available from many
sources. Many suppliers can provide our electronic displays and progressive jackpots and systems
hardware products. Accordingly, we are not dependent in any significant way upon any single
supplier or vendor for components, raw materials or assembly.

In August 2004, we signed a license and development agreement with IGT to license segments of
our patent portfolio of technology and to develop video slot games based on our content, for a term
continuing until the last to expire of the patent rights under the agreement. The new games are to
be developed on IGT s game platform and distributed by us. Pursuant to this agreement, IGT also
licenses aspects of its intellectual property to us for its games and we are committed to purchase
from IGT a minimum of 600 slot machines carrying our game content on them over the life of the
agreement.

Marketing and Distribution 

We maintain facilities to sell and service our products directly to markets throughout the world.
In addition to our headquarters and other facilities in Las Vegas, NV, we have regional sales
offices in Sparks, NV; Egg Harbor, NJ; Biloxi, MS; Lane Cove, Australia;

- 9 -

Table of Contents   

Tallinn, Estonia; Houten,
The Netherlands; Oldham, England; Oxford, England; and Macau. We have third party sales and service
distributors in the Caribbean, Europe, Asia, Australia and Oklahoma. In addition, we have service
centers in Kansas City, MO; Chicago, IL; and Calgary, Canada.

Research and Development 

Our research and development department is dedicated to developing fun and exciting table and slot
games that enhance player entertainment value and to introducing leading, innovative systems
products that increase our customer s revenue stream and facilitates operating efficiencies. Headed
by our Chief Technology Officer, our R D staff of approximately 80 employees possesses significant
experience in software and content design and development. Our current emphasis is on developing
new technologies to expand and improve CasinoLink    Enterprise Edition s functionalities and
developing new game content through third parties to refresh and grow our installed base of gaming
devices.

To expedite the development of new slot games for our Game Station  module, we are concurrently
creating a game development kit, a suite of software tools designed for third-party game developer
partners to quickly expand our content library. At the Global Gaming Expo in September 2005, we
demonstrated approximately 35 new slot games which were designed specifically for our Game Station
module. Ten of these games are also available in a stand-alone slot machine format.

We conduct extensive testing on the products we offer to ensure they meet the key performance and
quality standards as required by gaming regulators. In addition, our R D personnel constantly work
with our customers to respond to their needs and to ensure compatibility with other products
currently available in the market. Moreover, we closely monitor the evolving standards in the
gaming industry so that we are able to respond and address new technologies as they emerge.

We believe our intellectual property rights, patents, trademarks and copyrights are significant
assets. In particular, we own or have license rights to over 40 patents in the area of RFID
technology and related table games system management. This portfolio took over five years to
develop and is expected to be a main focus of our R D resources in 2006 and beyond, and is expected
to continue to evolve as we look towards the next generation of RFID technology s use within table
systems management. In addition to internally developed and acquired emerging gaming technologies,
we also rely on strategic partnerships to obtain access to intellectual property. For example, our
joint development agreements with IGT and Bally provide us with access to technologies related to
leading gaming hardware platforms.

We intend to vigorously protect the investment in our research and development efforts and the
unique features of our products and services by maintaining our intellectual property rights.
However, we cannot ensure that intellectual property rights will not be infringed. Additionally, we
cannot be sure that our pending applications for additional intellectual property rights will be
granted.

During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, we expended approximately $8.1 million,
$6.1 million, and $5.2 million respectively, on research and development activities.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 315 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 26
were in operations and assembly, 59 in sales and marketing, 93 in installation and service, 80 in
research and development and 57 in administration. None of our employees are covered by a
collective bargaining agreement. We believe that we enjoy good relations with our employee work
force.

Government Regulation 

Overview 

We are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in most jurisdictions in which our
products are sold or used by persons or entities licensed to conduct gaming activities. Gaming
regulatory requirements vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and obtaining licenses, findings of
suitability, registrations and/or other required approvals with respect to us, our personnel and
our products are time-consuming and expensive. References in this  Government Regulation  section
to  Progressive,   we,   us  and  our  are to Progressive Gaming International Corporation only,
and not to its subsidiaries.

Generally, gaming regulatory authorities have broad discretionary powers and may deny applications
for or revoke approvals on any basis they deem reasonable. Despite our experience, we may be unable
to obtain or maintain necessary gaming regulatory approvals for us, our products or our personnel.

- 10 -

Table of Contents   

We, either directly or through our subsidiaries, have approvals that enable us to conduct our
business in numerous jurisdictions, subject in each case to the conditions of the particular
approvals. These conditions may include limitations as to the type of game or product we may sell
or lease, as well as limitations on the type of facility (such as riverboats) and the territory
within which we may operate (such as tribal nations). Jurisdictions in which we (together with our
subsidiaries, and specific personnel where required) have authorizations with respect to some or
all of our products and activities include Nevada, South Dakota, Mississippi, Iowa, Missouri,
Oregon, Louisiana, Colorado, Illinois, Washington, Arizona, Connecticut, Montana, New Jersey, North
Carolina, North Dakota, New Mexico, Kansas, Minnesota, Indiana, Michigan, New York, Wisconsin,
California; the Canadian provinces of Alberta, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Quebec, Saskatchewan, British
Columbia and Ontario; the Australian states of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania; the Australian territories of Northern Territory and Australia Capital
Territory; New Zealand; Mpumalanga and Gauteng in South Africa; and Greece.

Certain Native American tribes throughout the United States that have compacts with the states in
which their tribal dominions are located, operate or propose to operate casinos, and these tribes
may require suppliers of gaming and gaming-related equipment to obtain authorizations. We have
worked and will continue to work with these tribes to obtain the necessary authorizations.

During 2004 and 2005, we cooperated with certain state gaming authorities with respect to the
required relicensing of our company in certain jurisdictions, as well as the licensing of our Chief
Financial Officer and related financial controls, policies and procedures, our Chief Technology
Officer and our General Counsel. This process is on-going and the results are not expected to have
a material
adverse effect on us. We continue to cooperate with all gaming regulatory agencies as necessary and
applicable to maintain good standing in all jurisdictions in which we hold a license.

Gaming Devices and Equipment 

We sell or lease products which are considered to be  gaming devices  or  gaming equipment  in
jurisdictions in which gaming has been legalized. Although regulations vary among jurisdictions,
each jurisdiction requires various licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, approvals or
permits to be held by companies and their key personnel in connection with the manufacture and
distribution of gaming devices and equipment.

Associated Equipment 

Some of our products fall within the general classification of  associated equipment.   Associated
equipment  is equipment that is not classified as a  gaming device,  but which has an integral
relationship to the conduct of licensed gaming. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions have
discretion to require manufacturers and distributors to meet licensing or suitability requirements
prior to or concurrently with the use of associated equipment. In other jurisdictions, the
regulatory authorities must approve associated equipment in advance of its use at licensed
locations. We have obtained approval for our associated equipment in each jurisdiction that
requires such approval and in which our products that are classified as associated equipment are
sold or used.

Regulation of Stockholders 

In most jurisdictions, any beneficial owner of our voting securities or other securities may, at
the discretion of the gaming regulatory authorities, be required to file an application for a
license, finding of suitability or other approval, and in the process subject himself, herself or
itself to an investigation by those authorities. The gaming laws and regulations of most
jurisdictions require beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding voting securities to
file certain reports, and may require our directors and executive officers to undergo investigation
for licensing or findings of suitability.

Regulation and Licensing   Nevada 

Gaming.  The manufacture, sale and distribution of gaming devices for use or play in Nevada or for
distribution outside of Nevada, the manufacturing and distribution of associated equipment for use
in Nevada, and the operation of slot machine routes and inter-casino linked systems in Nevada are
subject to (i) the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder and (ii)
various local ordinances and regulations. These activities are subject to the licensing and
regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, and
various local, city and county regulatory agencies, collectively referred to as the Nevada Gaming
Authorities.

The laws, regulations and supervisory practices of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based upon
declarations of public policy with the following objectives:

preventing any involvement, direct or indirect, of any unsavory or unsuitable persons in gaming
or the manufacture or distribution of gaming devices at any time or in any capacity; 

- 11 -

Table of Contents   

strictly regulating all persons, locations, practices and activities related to the operation of
licensed gaming establishments and the manufacturing or distribution of gaming devices and
equipment; 

establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures; 

maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees (including requirements
covering minimum procedures for internal fiscal controls and safeguarding assets and revenues,
reliable recordkeeping and periodic reports to be filed with the Nevada Gaming Authorities); 

preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and 

providing and monitoring sources of state and local revenue based on taxation and licensing fees. 

Changes in such laws, regulations and procedures, depending upon their nature, could have an
adverse effect on our operations. We are registered by the Nevada Gaming Commission as a publicly
traded corporation, or a Registered Corporation, and have been found to be suitable to own the
stock of Mikohn Nevada, which is licensed as a manufacturer and distributor of gaming devices, and
as an operator of a slot machine route. We and Mikohn Nevada have obtained from the Nevada Gaming
Authorities the various
authorizations they require to engage in Nevada in manufacturing, distribution, slot route
operations and inter-casino linked system activities consisting of slot machines. The regulatory
requirements set forth below apply to us as a Registered Corporation and to Mikohn Nevada as a
manufacturer, distributor and operator of a slot machine route.

All gaming devices that are manufactured, sold or distributed for use or play in Nevada, or for
distribution outside of Nevada, must be manufactured by licensed manufacturers and distributed and
sold by licensed distributors. The Nevada Gaming Commission must approve all gaming devices
manufactured for use or play in Nevada before distribution or exposure for play. The approval
process for gaming devices includes rigorous testing by the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, a
field trial and a determination that the gaming device meets strict technical standards set forth
in the regulations of the Nevada Gaming Commission. The Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control
Board must administratively approve associated equipment before it is distributed for use in
Nevada.

As a Registered Corporation, we are periodically required to submit detailed financial and
operating reports to the Nevada Gaming Commission and furnish any other information the Nevada
Gaming Commission may require. No person may become a stockholder of or receive any percentage of
profits from Mikohn Nevada without first obtaining authorizations from the Nevada Gaming
Authorities.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to, or
material involvement with us or Mikohn Nevada in order to determine whether such individual is
suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. Officers, directors
and certain key employees of Mikohn Nevada are required to file applications with the Nevada Gaming
Authorities and may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities.
Our officers, directors and key employees who are actively and directly involved in gaming
activities of Mikohn Nevada may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming
Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for licensing for any cause that
they deem reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing. Both require submission
of detailed personal and financial information, which is followed by a thorough investigation. The
applicant for licensing or a finding of suitability must pay all the costs of the investigation.
Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. In addition to
their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the Nevada Gaming
Authorities have the power to disapprove a change in corporate position.

If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for
licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us or Mikohn Nevada, we would have
to sever all relationships with that person. In addition, the Nevada Gaming Commission may require
us or Mikohn Nevada to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate
applications. Determinations of suitability or of questions pertaining to licensing are not subject
to judicial review in Nevada.

Progressive and Mikohn Nevada are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to
the Nevada Gaming Commission. Substantially all material loans, leases, sales of securities and
similar financing transactions by Mikohn Nevada also are required to be reported to or approved by
the Nevada Gaming Commission.

Should Mikohn Nevada be found to have violated the Nevada Gaming Control Act, the licenses it holds
could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked. In addition, Mikohn Nevada, Progressive and
the persons involved could be required to pay substantial fines, at the discretion of the Nevada
Gaming Commission, for each separate violation of the Nevada Gaming Control Act. Limitation,
conditioning or suspension of any license held by Mikohn Nevada could (and revocation of any
license would) materially adversely

- 12 -

Table of Contents   

affect our manufacturing, distribution and slot operations.

Regulation of Security Holders  .  Any beneficial holder of our voting securities, regardless of the
number of shares owned, may be required to file an application, be investigated, and have his or
her suitability as a beneficial holder of our voting securities determined if the Nevada Gaming
Commission finds reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the
declared policies of the State of Nevada. The applicant must pay all costs of investigation
incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any such investigation.

The Nevada Gaming Control Act requires any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than 5%
of a Registered Corporation s voting securities to report the acquisition to the Nevada Gaming
Commission. It also requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a Registered Corporation s
voting securities to apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within
thirty days after the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board mails a written notice
requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an  institutional investor,  as defined in the
Nevada Gaming Control Act, which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 15%, of the Registered
Corporation s voting securities may apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a waiver of such
finding of suitability if such institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment
purposes only. An institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may, in certain circumstances
hold up to 19% of a Registered Corporation s voting securities for a limited period of time and
maintain the waiver.

An institutional investor is deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes if the voting
securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of its business as an institutional
investor and were not acquired and are not held for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly:
(i) the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Registered
Corporation; (ii) any change in the Registered Corporation s corporate charter, bylaws, management,
policies or operations or those of any of its gaming affiliates or (iii) any other action that the
Nevada Gaming Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the Registered Corporation s voting
securities for investment purposes only. Activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with
holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: (i) voting on all matters voted on
by stockholders; (ii) making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made
by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies
or operations and (iii) other activities the Nevada Gaming Commission may determine to be
consistent with investment intent. If the beneficial holder of voting securities who must be found
suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial
information including a list of beneficial owners. The applicant is required to pay all costs of
investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days
after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Gaming Commission or the Chairman of the Nevada State
Gaming Control Board, may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the
record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder of a
Registered Corporation found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial
ownership in the voting securities beyond such period of time as the Nevada Gaming Commission may
specify for filing any required application may be guilty of a criminal offense. Moreover, the
Registered Corporation will be subject to disciplinary action if, after it receives notice that a
person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with the Registered
Corporation, it: (i) pays that person any dividend on its voting securities; (ii) allows that
person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through securities
ownership; (iii) pays remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise or
(iv) fails to pursue all lawful efforts (including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of said
voting securities for cash at fair market value) to require such unsuitable person to completely
divest all voting securities held.

The Nevada Gaming Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt security of a
Registered Corporation to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt
security of a Registered Corporation if the Nevada Gaming Commission finds reason to believe that
such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada.
If the Nevada Gaming Commission determines that a person is unsuitable to own such security, it may
sanction the Registered Corporation, which sanctions may include the loss of its approvals if,
without the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission: it (i) pays to the unsuitable person
any dividend, interest, or other distribution; (ii) recognizes any voting right of such unsuitable
person in connection with such securities; (iii) pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any
form or (iv) makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption,
conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction.

Progressive and Mikohn Nevada are required to maintain current stock ledgers in Nevada that may be
examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an
agent or by a nominee, the record owner may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial
owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for
finding the record owner unsuitable.

We are also required to render maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial
owners of our securities. The Nevada Gaming Commission has the power to require us to imprint our
stock certificates with a legend stating that the securities are subject to

- 13 -

Table of Contents   

the Nevada Gaming
Control Act. To date, the Nevada Gaming Commission has not imposed such requirement on us.

We may not make a public offering of our securities without the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming
Commission if the securities or proceeds are to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming
facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for such purposes. Such approval,
if given, does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by the Nevada Gaming Commission
or the Nevada State Gaming Control Board as to the accuracy or adequacy of the prospectus or the
investment merit of the offered securities, and any representation to the contrary is unlawful.

Any offer by us to sell our common stock requires the review of, and prior approval by, the Nevada
Gaming Commission. On September 27, 2005, we received prior approval, referred to as the Shelf
Approval, by the Nevada Gaming Commission to make public offerings for a period of two years,
subject to certain conditions, which covers registered common stock issued after the date of the
Shelf Approval. The Shelf Approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the
issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board
and must be renewed at the end of the two-year approval period. The Shelf Approval applies to any
affiliated company that is wholly owned by us, which is a publicly traded corporation or would
thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. The Shelf Approval does
not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by the Nevada Gaming Commission as to the
accuracy or adequacy of the prospectus or the investment merits of the securities offered. Any
representation to the contrary is unlawful.

Changes in control of a Registered Corporation through merger, consolidation, stock or asset
acquisitions, management or consulting agreements, or any act or conduct, by which anyone obtains
control, may not lawfully occur without the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission.
Entities seeking to acquire control of a Registered Corporation must meet the strict standards
established by the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Nevada Gaming Commission prior to
assuming control of a Registered Corporation. The Nevada Gaming Commission also may require persons
who intend to become controlling stockholders, officers or directors, and other persons who expect
to have a material relationship or involvement with the acquired company, to be investigated and
licensed as part of the approval process.

The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management,
repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada corporate gaming
licensees, and Registered Corporations that are affiliated with those operations, may be injurious
to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Gaming Commission has established a
regulatory scheme to minimize the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon
Nevada s gaming industry and to further Nevada s policy to: (i) assure the financial stability of
corporate gaming licensees and their affiliates; (ii) preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting
business in the corporate form; and (iii) promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance
of corporate affairs. Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the Nevada Gaming
Commission before the Registered Corporation can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities
above market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. The
Nevada Gaming Control Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by
the Registered Corporation s board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to the
Registered Corporation s stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control of the Registered
Corporation.

License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity
involved, must be paid to the State of Nevada and to the counties and cities in which gaming
operations are conducted. These fees and taxes, depending upon their nature, are payable monthly,
quarterly or annually and are based upon either a percentage of the gross revenues received or the
number of gaming devices operated. Annual fees are also payable to the State of Nevada for renewal
of licenses as an operator of a slot machine route, manufacturer and/or distributor.

Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered, or who
is under common control with any such persons, collectively,  Licensees , and who proposes to
become involved in a gaming venture outside of Nevada, is required to deposit with the Nevada State
Gaming Control Board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the
expenses of investigation by the Nevada State Gaming Control Board of his or her participation
outside of Nevada. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the
Nevada Gaming Commission. Thereafter, Licensees are required to comply with certain reporting
requirements imposed by the Nevada Gaming Control Act. Licensees also are subject to disciplinary
action by the Nevada Gaming Commission if they knowingly violate any laws of the foreign
jurisdiction pertaining to the non-Nevada gaming operations, fail to conduct the foreign gaming
operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming
operations, engage in activities or enter into associations that are harmful to the State of Nevada
or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees, or employ, contract with or associate with a
person in the non-Nevada operations who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in
Nevada on the ground of unsuitability.

Other Jurisdictions 

All other jurisdictions that have legalized gaming require various licenses, registrations,
findings of suitability, permits and approvals

- 14 -

Table of Contents   

for manufacturers and distributors of gaming devices
and equipment as well as licensure provisions related to changes in control. In general, such
requirements involve restrictions similar to those of Nevada.

Federal Regulation 

The Federal Gambling Devices Act of 1962, or the Federal Act, makes it unlawful, in general, for a
person to manufacture, transport, or receive gaming machines, gaming machine type devices, and
components across state lines or to operate gaming machines unless that person has first registered
with the Attorney General of the United States. We have registered and must renew our registration
annually. In addition, the Federal Act imposes various record keeping and equipment identification
requirements. Violation of the Federal Act may result in seizure and forfeiture of the equipment,
as well as other penalties.

Application of Future or Additional Regulatory Requirements 

In the future, we intend to seek the necessary registrations, licenses, approvals and findings of
suitability for us, our products and our personnel in other jurisdictions throughout the world
where significant sales of our products are expected to be made. However, we may be unable to
obtain these registrations, licenses, approvals or findings of suitability, which if obtained may
be revoked, suspended or unsuitably conditioned. In addition, we may be unable to timely obtain, or
to obtain at all, the necessary approvals for our future products as they are developed, even in
those jurisdictions in which our existing products have been licensed or approved. If a
registration, license, approval or finding of suitability is required by a regulatory authority and
we fail to seek or do not receive the necessary registration, license, approval or finding of
suitability, we may be prohibited from selling our products for use in that jurisdiction or may be
required to sell our products through other licensed entities at a reduced profit.

Available Information 

Our Internet address is www.progressivegaming.net. We make available free of charge through
our Internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other
information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely
affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the
value of an investment in our common stock. 

Risks Relating to Our Business 

If we are unable to develop or introduce innovative products and technologies that gain market
acceptance and satisfy consumer preferences, our current and future revenues will be adversely
affected.  

Our current and future performance is dependent upon the continued popularity of our existing
products and technologies and our ability to develop and introduce new products and technologies
that gain market acceptance and satisfy consumer preferences. The popularity of any of our gaming
products and technologies may decline over time as consumer preferences change or as new, competing
products or new technologies are introduced by our competitors. If we are unable to develop or
market innovative products or technologies in the future, or if our current products or
technologies become obsolete or otherwise noncompetitive, our ability to sustain current revenues
from our existing customers or to generate additional revenues from existing or new customers would
be adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially reduce our profitability and growth
potential. In addition, the introduction of new and innovative products and technologies by our
competitors that are successful in meeting consumer preferences also could materially reduce our
competitiveness and adversely affect our revenues and our business.

The development of new products and technologies requires a significant investment by us prior to
any of the products or technologies becoming available for the market. New products, such as new
games and refresher versions of our existing games, may not gain popularity with gaming patrons, or
may not maintain any popularity achieved. In the event any new products or technologies fail to
gain market acceptance or appeal to consumer preferences, we may be unable to recover the cost of
developing these products or technologies.

If we are unable to rapidly develop new technologies, our products and technologies may become
obsolete or noncompetitive.  

The gaming sector is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and continuous
introduction of new products. In

- 15 -

Table of Contents   

addition to requiring a strong pipeline of proprietary games, our
success is dependent upon new product development and technological advancements, including the
continued development of cashless technology, table player tracking technologies, central
server-based products and technologies, progressive jackpot systems and integrated management
systems. The markets in which we compete are subject to frequent technological changes, and one or
more of our competitors may develop alternative technologies or products for bonusing, progressive
jackpots, slot accounting, cashless technology, player tracking or game promotions, or a superior
game platform which may not be made available to us. While we expend a significant amount of
resources on research and development and product enhancement, we may not be able to continue to
improve and market our existing products or technologies or develop and market new products at a
rapid enough pace. Further technological developments may cause our products or technologies to
become obsolete or noncompetitive.

If our current or proposed products or technologies do not receive regulatory approval, our revenue
and business prospects will be adversely affected.  

Our products and technologies are in various stages of development. Our development efforts are
dependent on factors such as obtaining requisite governmental approvals. Each of these products and
technologies requires separate regulatory approval in each market in which we do business, and this
regulatory approval may either not be granted at all or not be granted in a timely manner, for
reasons primarily outside of our control. In addition, we cannot predict with any accuracy which
jurisdictions or markets, if any, will accept and which authorities will approve the operation of
our gaming products and technologies, or the timing of any such approvals. A lack of regulatory
approval for our new games or other products and technologies, or refresher versions of our
existing games or
other products and technologies, or delays in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals, will
adversely affect our revenues and business prospects.

For example, RFID (radio frequency identification), CJS (Casino Jackpot Station) and central
server-based gaming represent three of our key strategic initiatives over the next several years.
While we are moving forward with the regulators in various jurisdictions to obtain required
approvals, we are at various stages in the approval and development process for each initiative. We
cannot assure you that we will receive the necessary approvals in all of the jurisdictions we have
sought approval nor can we assure you that there will not be any production delays in developing
and distributing these products and technologies. Any delay in production or in the regulatory
process, or a denial of regulatory approval altogether, for any one of these initiatives will
adversely impact our revenues and business.

If our products or technologies currently in development do not achieve commercial success, our
revenue and business prospects will be adversely affected.  

While we are pursuing and will continue to pursue product and technological development
opportunities, there can be no assurance that such products or technologies will come to fruition
or become successful. Furthermore, while a number of those products and technologies are being
tested, we cannot provide any definite date by which they will be commercially viable and
available, if at all. We may experience operational problems with such products after commercial
introduction that could delay or prevent us from generating revenue or operating profits. Future
operational problems could increase our costs, delay our plans or adversely affect our reputation
or our sales of other products which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our success. We
cannot predict which of the many possible future products or technologies currently in development
will meet evolving industry standards and consumer demands. We cannot assure you that we will be
able to adapt to technological changes or offer products on a timely basis or establish or maintain
a competitive position.

We may not be successful in forming or maintaining strategic alliances with other companies, which
could negatively affect our product offerings and sales.  

Our business is becoming increasingly dependent on forming or maintaining strategic alliances with
other companies, and we may not be able to form or maintain alliances that are important to ensure
that our products and technologies are compatible with third-party products and technologies, to
enable us to license our products and technologies to potential new customers and into potential
new markets, and to enable us to continue to enter into new agreements with our existing customers.
There can be no assurance that we will identify the best alliances for our business or that we will
be able to maintain existing relationships with other companies or enter into new alliances with
other companies on acceptable terms or at all. The failure to maintain or establish successful
strategic alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. If
we cannot form and maintain significant strategic alliances with other companies as our target
markets and technology evolve, the sales opportunities for our products and technologies could
deteriorate.

If any conflicts arise between us and any of our alliance partners, our reputation, revenues and
cash position could be significantly harmed.  

Conflicts may arise between us and our alliance partners, such as conflicts concerning licensing
and royalty fees, development or distribution obligations, the achievement of milestones or the
ownership or protection of intellectual property developed by the alliance or otherwise. Any such
disagreement between us and an alliance partner could result in one or more of the following, each
of which could harm our reputation, result in a loss of revenues and a reduction in our cash
position:

- 16 -

Table of Contents   

unwillingness on the part of an alliance partner to pay us license fees or
royalties we believe are due to us under the strategic alliance; 

uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights arising from
our strategic alliance activities, which could result in litigation, permit
third parties to use certain of our intellectual property or prevent us from
utilizing such intellectual property rights and from entering into additional
strategic alliances; 

unwillingness on the part of an alliance partner to keep us informed regarding
the progress of its development and commercialization activities, or to permit
public disclosure of the results of those activities; 

slowing or cessation of an alliance partner s development or commercialization
efforts with respect to our products or technologies; 

delays in the introduction or commercialization of products or technologies; or 

termination or non-renewal of the strategic alliance. 

In addition, certain of our current or future alliance partners may have the right to terminate the
strategic alliance on short notice. Accordingly, in the event of any conflict between the parties,
our alliance partners may elect to terminate the agreement or alliance prior to completion of its
original term. If a strategic alliance is terminated prematurely, we would not realize the
anticipated benefits of the strategic alliance, our reputation in the industry and in the
investment community may be harmed and our stock price may decline.

In addition, in certain of our current or future strategic alliances, we may agree not to develop
products independently, or with any third party, directly competitive with the subject matter of
our strategic alliances. Our strategic alliances may have the effect of limiting the areas of
research, development and/or commercialization that we may pursue, either alone or with others.
Under certain circumstances, however, our alliance partners, may research, develop, or
commercialize, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with
the products or potential products that are the subject of these strategic alliances. For example,
as part of our joint development arrangement with IGT and Shuffle Master, we agreed not to
manufacture or sell our intelligent shoe products for a three-year period.

If our remaining license agreements with Hasbro, Inc. and other content providers are terminated or
are not renewed, or if we breach our obligations under any license agreement, our revenues could be
reduced.  

Revenues from our table and slot games segment are derived primarily from the popularity of our
branded slot games, including licensed brands such as Clue   , Ripley s Believe It or Not!    and
Trivial Pursuit   . We developed these slot games under multi-year license agreements, which contain
options to renew, with Hasbro and Ripley Entertainment and have developed other slot games under
agreements with other branded content providers. We are also in the process of developing
additional games under similar agreements with separate licensors for additional branded content,
including an agreement with Paws, Inc. for use of the Garfield    property.

Any termination or failure to renew a license agreement with our branded content providers could
have a material, adverse effect on our revenues and operations. For example, Hasbro declined to
renew the Yahtzee and Battleship brands with us as of December 15, 2004. While we believe that we
will be able to replace this content with other popular branded slot games, our failure to do so
could materially affect our future revenues. In addition, we are engaged in litigation with Hasbro
related to a claim for past due royalties on slot game titles that we licensed from Hasbro, and we
cannot assure you that this litigation will be resolved or that Hasbro will renew other license
agreements with us for other Hasbro brands. For example, in the second quarter of 2006 our Clue   
and Trivial Pursuit    license arrangements with Hasbro will expire unless they are renewed with the
consent of both parties.

Each license agreement contains provisions that obligate us to perform in a certain manner. If we
breach these obligations, the licensor may terminate the license agreement following a specified
period that varies from immediate termination to thirty days, depending upon the agreement and the
type of breach. In addition, any breach of our obligations may adversely affect our relationship
with the licensor, as well as deter the licensor and other third parties from licensing additional
brands to us. Our ability to renew our license agreements with Hasbro, Paws or Ripley Entertainment
for an additional term is conditioned upon our having paid minimum royalties to the licensor during
the applicable initial term. If we do not generate sufficient revenues to pay the minimum royalties
or otherwise are unable to renew any of our license agreements with the licensor, our future
revenues may be materially reduced.

Our failure to protect, maintain and enforce our existing intellectual property or secure, maintain
and enforce such rights for new proprietary technology could adversely affect our future growth and
success.  

- 17 -

Table of Contents   

Our ability to successfully protect our intellectual property is essential to our success. We
protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade
secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment
agreements. Certain of our existing and proposed products are covered by patents issued in the
United States, which may differ from patent protection in foreign jurisdictions, where our
intellectual property may not receive the same degree of protection as it would in the United
States. In addition, in many countries intellectual property rights are conditioned upon obtaining
registrations for trademarks, patents and other rights, and we have not obtained such registrations
in all relevant jurisdictions. Failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could
significantly impair our competitive advantage and adversely affect our revenues and the value of
our common stock.

Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to secure our rights in any new proprietary
technology that we develop. We file trademark, copyright and patent applications to protect
intellectual property rights for many of our trademarks, proprietary games, gaming products and
improvements to these products. For example, we applied for patents for our knowledge-based bonus
features and other game enhancements which have been utilized in our Think Big    game series, which
includes our Ripley s Believe It or Not!   , Clue    and Trivial Pursuit    games. The U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office has not acted upon all of these applications and may determine not to issue
patents on some or all of our pending patent applications. Our failure to obtain federal protection
for our patents and trademarks could cause us to become subject to additional competition and could
have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and operations. In addition, any of the
patents that we own, acquire or license may be determined to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable
and would, in such case, not provide any protection with respect to the associated intellectual
property rights.

If we are unable to effectively promote our trademarks, our revenues and results of operations may
be materially adversely affected.  

We intend to promote the trademarks that we own and license from third parties to differentiate
ourselves from our competitors and to build goodwill with our customers. These promotion efforts
will require certain expenditures on our part. However, our efforts may be unsuccessful and these
trademarks may not result in the competitive advantage that we anticipate. In such event, our
revenues and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by the costs and expenses
related to the promotion of such trademarks.

Our competitors may develop non-infringing products or technologies that adversely affect our
future growth and revenues.  

It is possible that our competitors will produce proprietary games or gaming products similar to
ours without infringing on our intellectual property rights. We also rely on unpatented proprietary
technologies. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar
technologies or otherwise obtain access to the unpatented technologies upon which we rely for
future growth and revenues. In addition, to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary
information, we generally require employees, consultants, advisors and strategic partners to enter
into confidentiality agreements or agreements containing confidentiality provisions. We cannot
assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how
or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or
disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Failure to
meaningfully protect our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information could adversely
affect our future growth and revenues.

We may incur significant litigation expenses protecting our intellectual property or defending our
use of intellectual property, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow.  

Significant litigation regarding intellectual property exists in our industry. Competitors and
other third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights. Alternatively, competitors
may allege that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights. For example, Interactive
Systems Worldwide, Inc. sued us for patent infringement on December 14, 2005. Any claims, even
those made by third parties which are without merit, could:

be expensive and time consuming to defend resulting in the diversion of management s attention and resources; 

cause one or more of our patents to be ruled or rendered unenforceable or invalid, or require us to cease making,
licensing or using products or systems that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; or 

require us to spend significant time and money to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products or systems if feasible. 

See  Item 3. Legal Proceedings  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of various
legal proceedings in which we are involved.

If we are found to be infringing on a third-party s intellectual property rights, we may be forced
to discontinue certain products or technologies, pay damages or obtain a license to use the
intellectual property, any of which may adversely affect our future growth and revenues.  

If we are found to be infringing on a third party s intellectual property rights, we may be forced
to discontinue certain products or the use of certain competitive technologies or features, which
may have a material adverse effect on our future growth and revenues.

- 18 -

Table of Contents   

Alternatively, if the company holding the applicable patent is willing to give us a license
that allows us to develop, manufacture or market our products or technologies, we may be required
to obtain a license from them. Such a license may require the payment of a license, royalty or
similar fee or payment and may limit our ability to market new products or technologies, which
would adversely affect our future growth and revenues. In addition, if we are found to have
committed patent infringement we may be obligated to pay damages or be subject to other remedies,
which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.

Some of our products may contain open source software which may be subject to restrictive open
source licenses requiring us to make our source code available to third parties and potentially
granting third parties certain rights to the software.  

Some of our products may contain open source software which may be subject to restrictive open
source licenses. Some of these licenses may require that we make our source code related to the
licensed open source software available to third parties and/or license such software under the
terms of a particular open source license potentially granting third parties certain rights to the
software. We may incur legal expenses in defending against claims that we did not abide by such
licenses. If our defenses are unsuccessful we may be enjoined from distributing products containing
such open source software, be required to make the relevant source code available to third parties,
be required to grant third parties certain rights to the software, be subject to potential damages
or be required to remove the open source software from our products. Any of these outcomes could
disrupt our distribution and sale of related products and adversely affect our revenues and the
value of our common stock.

We depend upon our ability to obtain licenses for popular intellectual properties and our failure
to secure such licenses with acceptable terms could adversely affect our future growth and success.  

Our future success depends upon our ability to obtain licenses for popular intellectual
properties. Clue   , Ripley s Believe It Or Not!   , Trivial Pursuit   , Garfield   , and Wink s Survey of
America    are among the intellectual properties that we currently license from third parties. We may
not be successful in obtaining licenses for popular intellectual property. Even if we are
successful in these efforts, we may not have the ability to adapt or deploy them for the
development of casino games, as to the timing or cost of such development efforts or as to the
commercial success of the resulting games.

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, is conducting an inspection of our
external auditors BDO Seidman LLP and their audit of our financial statements as of and for the
year ended December 31, 2004.  

The PCAOB is conducting an inspection of BDO Seidman LLP, our external auditors. As part of this
inspection, the PCAOB has selected, among others, to review BDO Seidman s audit of our financial
statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004. The PCAOB has requested additional
information and analysis from BDO Seidman regarding our recognition of revenue in connection with a
strategic licensing transaction we entered into in 2004. In addition, the PCAOB has requested
information regarding certain other revenue transactions in 2004 and 2005.

We believe that our accounting methods for these transactions are correct. However, in the event
the PCAOB determines that a different method should have been used to report this financial
information, we may be required to treat this revenue in a manner different than what has been
recorded in our historical financial statements. The PCAOB s inspection of BDO Seidman is ongoing
and there can be no assurance as to when it will be completed. In addition, we cannot assure you
that in the course of this inspection, the PCAOB will not identify additional information contained
in our historical financial statements which it believes could have been reported differently, or
the prospective impact of any such items on our financial statements.

We operate in a highly competitive market and may be unable to successfully compete which may harm
our operating results.  

We compete with a number of developers, manufacturers and distributors of similar products and
technologies. Many of our competitors are large companies that have greater access to capital,
marketing and development resources than we have. Larger competitors may have more resources to
devote to research and development and may be able to more efficiently and effectively obtain
regulatory approval. In addition, competitors with a larger installed base of games have an
advantage in retaining the most space and best placement in casinos. These competitors may also
have the advantage of being able to convert their installed games to newer models in order to
maintain their share of casino floor space. Similarly, the casino management systems market is
highly competitive. Pricing, product features and functionality, accuracy and reliability are key
factors in determining a provider s success in selling its system. Because of the high initial
costs of installing a computerized monitoring system, customers for such systems generally do not
change suppliers once they have installed a system. This may make it difficult for us to attract
customers who have existing computerized monitoring systems.

Our business and revenues will be negatively affected if we are unable to compete effectively in
the markets for our products and technologies. New competitors also may enter our key markets.
Numerous factors may affect our ability to successfully compete and thus affect our future
performance, including:

the relative popularity of our existing products and our ability to develop and introduce appealing new products; 

our ability to obtain adequate space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors; 

- 19 -

Table of Contents   

our ability to maintain existing regulatory approvals and to obtain further regulatory approvals as needed; and 

our ability to enforce our existing intellectual property rights and to adequately secure, maintain and protect
rights for new products. 

Our cash flow from operations and available credit may not be sufficient to meet our capital
requirements and, as a result, we could be dependent upon future financing, which may not be
available.  

Historically, we have not generated sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our capital
requirements and have relied upon debt and equity financing arrangements to satisfy such
requirements. Should such financing arrangements be required but unavailable in the future, this
will pose a significant risk to our liquidity and ability to meet operational and other cash
requirements. Our bank credit facility with CapitalSource expired on December 15, 2005. We have
not replaced this credit facility. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be
available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to secure a replacement credit facility
on terms acceptable to us, this may pose a significant risk to our liquidity and ability to meet
operational and other cash requirements. As part of our alliance with IGT, we entered into a joint
development agreement and gave IGT an option to purchase $40 million of our 6% senior subordinated
convertible notes. On February 28, 2006, we provided IGT with requisite notice that we were
prepared to issue these notes. IGT determined not to purchase the notes at this time, and by its
terms the option lapsed.

The table and slot games business segment has historically been capital-intensive, and while we
have repositioned our business away from assembling hardware, we still maintain and refurbish the
slot machines we currently have in the field, so our business may remain capital-intensive
depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to continue to use the
existing slot machines we own or lease from a third party, or our success in providing popular and
innovative game content ideas for slot machines such that a manufacturer of slot machines would
agree to provide slot machines which incorporate our game content in exchange for a portion of
revenues earned from the sale or leasing arrangement with a casino. If we are not successful in
these areas, among others, we may be required to continue expending significant capital outlays
related to this business segment.

We may not be able to obtain additional capital to fund these outlays or to take advantage of
future opportunities or respond to changing demands of customers and competitors.

If gaming operators cancel the placement of our games or do not agree to recurring revenue
arrangements, our revenues and growth could be adversely affected.  

Under the terms of our current arrangements with gaming operators, our installed base of games may
be replaced by competing products under certain circumstances, thus ending the recurring revenue
stream or arrangement with such operator. Such replacement may result from competition, changes in
economic conditions, technological requirements, obsolescence or declining popularity. For example,
from June 30, 2005 to December 31, 2005, our installed base
of slot games decreased 67% from 1,024
to 336. A further decrease in our installed base of games would adversely affect our revenues
and future growth. In addition, if customers replace our games and bonusing systems, our efforts to
maintain and expand the number of installed proprietary games through enhancement of existing games
and bonusing systems, introduction of new games and bonusing systems, and other features and the
provision of superior customer service may not be successful.

Furthermore, prominent placement of our games on the casino floor is necessary to maximize the
amount of recurring revenues derived from each of our games. Our leases do not require the gaming
operators to place our games in prominent locations. If we fail to maintain prominent locations in
casinos, our games may not be played, resulting in a reduction of our recurring revenues.

We have historically placed our proprietary games in casinos primarily under leases which provide
for a fixed rental payment or on the basis of revenue participation in the game s operating
results. Most of these lease agreements are for 12 to 36 months and are subject to cancellation by
the operator that may involve 30 or 60-day prior notice of cancellation. We will continue to follow
this model to the extent that there is interest amongst our customers.

The gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must adhere to various regulations and maintain our
licenses to continue our operations.  

The distribution of gaming products and conduct of gaming operations are extensively regulated by
various domestic and foreign gaming authorities. Although the laws of different jurisdictions vary
in their technical requirements and are amended from time-to-time, virtually all jurisdictions in
which we operate require registrations, licenses, findings of suitability, permits and other
approvals, as well as documentation of qualifications, including evidence of the integrity,
financial stability and responsibility of our officers, directors, major stockholders and key
personnel. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations to which we are subject, the
applicable domestic or foreign gaming authority may impose significant penalties and restrictions
on our operations, resulting in a material adverse effect on our revenues and future business. See
 Item 1. Business   Government Regulation  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of
the regulations that apply to our business.

- 20 -

Table of Contents   

Future authorizations or regulatory approvals may not be granted in a timely manner or at all which
would adversely affect our results of operations.  

We will be subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where our customers may operate in the
future. Future authorizations or approvals required by domestic and foreign gaming authorities may
not be granted at all or as timely as we would like, and current or future authorizations may not
be renewed. In addition, we may be unable to obtain the authorizations necessary to operate new
products or new technologies or to operate our current products or technologies in new markets. For
example, our Ticket-In Ticket-Out (TITO) feature for slot games has not yet been approved in
Nevada. If we are not able to obtain TITO approval in Nevada, our ability to generate revenue may
be significantly impaired. In either case, our results of operations would likely be adversely
affected. Gaming authorities can also place burdensome conditions and limits on future
authorizations and approvals. If we fail to maintain or obtain a necessary registration, license,
approval or finding of suitability, we may be prohibited from selling our products or technologies
for use in the jurisdiction, or we may be required to sell them through other licensed entities at
a reduced profit.
The continued growth of markets for our products and technologies is contingent upon regulatory
approvals by various federal, state, local and foreign gaming authorities. We cannot predict which
new jurisdictions or markets, if any, will accept and which authorities will approve the operation
of our gaming products and technologies, the timing of any such approvals or the level of our
penetration in any such markets.

Enforcement of remedies or contracts against Native American tribes could be difficult.  

Many of our contracts with Native American tribes are subject to sovereign immunity and tribal
jurisdiction. If a dispute arises with respect to any of those agreements, it could be difficult
for us to protect our rights. Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from suit
similar to that enjoyed by individual states and the United States. In order to sue a Native
American tribe (or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe), the tribe must have
effectively waived its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute. Moreover, even if
a Native American tribe were to waive sovereign immunity, such waiver may not be valid and in the
absence of an effective waiver of sovereign immunity by a Native American tribe, we could be
precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against that tribe.

Our business is closely tied to the casino industry and factors that negatively impact the casino
industry may also negatively affect our ability to generate revenues.  

Casinos and other gaming operators represent a significant portion of our customers. Therefore,
factors that may negatively impact the casino industry may also negatively impact our future
revenues. If casinos experience reduced patronage, revenues may be reduced as our games may not
perform well and may be taken off of the casino floor altogether.

The level of casino patronage, and therefore our revenues, are affected by a number of factors
beyond our control, including:

general economic conditions; 

levels of disposable income of casino patrons; 

downturn or loss in popularity of the gaming industry in general, and table and slot games in particular; 

the relative popularity of entertainment alternatives to casino gaming; 

the growth and number of legalized gaming jurisdictions; 

local conditions in key gaming markets, including seasonal and weather-related factors; 

increased transportation costs; 

acts of terrorism and anti-terrorism efforts; 

changes or proposed changes to tax laws; 

increases in gaming taxes or fees; 

legal and regulatory issues affecting the development, operation and licensing of casinos; 

the availability and cost of capital to construct, expand or renovate new and existing casinos; 

the level of new casino construction and renovation schedules of existing casinos; and 

- 21 -

Table of Contents   

competitive conditions in the gaming industry and in particular gaming markets, including the effect of
such conditions on the pricing of our games and products. 

These factors significantly impact the demand for our products and technologies.

The gaming industry is sensitive to declines in the public acceptance of gaming. Public opinion can
negatively affect the gaming industry and our future performance.  

In the event that there is a decline in public acceptance of gaming, this may affect our ability to
do business in some markets, either through unfavorable legislation affecting the introduction of
gaming into emerging markets, or through legislative and regulatory changes in existing gaming
markets which may adversely affect our ability to continue to sell and lease our games in those
jurisdictions, or through resulting reduced casino patronage. We cannot assure you that the level
of support for legalized gaming or the public use of leisure money in gaming activities will not
decline.

Economic, political and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could
adversely affect our operating results.  

Since we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing
business internationally. Our sales to customers outside the United States, primarily Canada, the
United Kingdom and Australia, accounted for approximately 19.9% of our consolidated revenue in
fiscal 2005. We expect the percentage of our international sales to increase in 2006. Accordingly,
our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:

changes in foreign currency exchange rates; 

exchange controls; 

changes in regulatory requirements; 

costs to comply with applicable laws; 

changes in a specific country s or region s political or economic conditions; 

tariffs and other trade protection measures; 

import or export licensing requirements; 

potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; 

different regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; 

difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; 

changing labor regulations; 

requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; 

restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions; 

restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; and 

violations under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 

Holders of our common stock are subject to the requirements of the gaming laws of all jurisdictions
in which we are licensed.  

Pursuant to applicable laws, gaming regulatory authorities in any jurisdiction in which we are
subject to regulation may, in their discretion, require a holder of any of our securities to
provide information, respond to questions, make filings, be investigated, licensed, qualified or
found suitable to own our securities. Moreover, the holder of the securities making any such
required application is generally required to pay all costs of the investigation, licensure,
qualification or finding of suitability.

If any holder of our securities fails to comply with the requirements of any gaming authority, we
have the right, at our option, to require such holder to dispose of such holder s securities within
the period specified by the applicable gaming law or to redeem the

- 22 -

Table of Contents   

securities to the extent required to comply with the requirements of the applicable gaming law.

Additionally, if a gaming authority determines that a holder is unsuitable to own our securities,
such holder will have no further right to exercise any voting or other rights conferred by the
securities, to receive any dividends, distributions or other economic benefit or payments with
respect to the securities or to continue its ownership or economic interest in us. We can be
sanctioned if we permit any of the foregoing to occur, which may include the loss of our licenses.

We may not realize the benefits we expect from the acquisitions of VirtGame and EndX.  

The integration of VirtGame and EndX technology may be time consuming and expensive, and may
disrupt our business. We will need to overcome significant challenges to realize any benefits or
synergies from these transactions. These challenges include the timely, efficient and successful
execution of a number of post-transaction integration activities, including:

integrating the technologies of the companies; 

entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; 

obtaining regulatory approval for the central server-based technology; 

successfully completing the development of VirtGame and EndX technologies; 

developing commercial products based on those technologies; 

retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; 

attracting additional customers for products based on VirtGame or EndX technologies; 

implementing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, processes, procedures, policies and information systems; and 

managing expenses of any undisclosed or potential legal liability of VirtGame or EndX. 

The process of integrating operations and technology could cause an interruption of, or loss of
momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses and the loss of key personnel. The
diversion of management s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with
the integration of VirtGame and EndX technologies could have an adverse effect on our business,
results of operations or financial condition. We may not succeed in addressing these risks or any
other problems encountered in connection with these transactions. The inability to successfully
integrate the technology and personnel of VirtGame and EndX, or any significant delay in achieving
integration, including regulatory approval delays, could have a material adverse effect on us and,
as a result, on the market price of our common stock.

Future acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder
value and strain our resources.  

As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to seek to acquire businesses, services and
technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage,
enhance our technical capabilities, provide us with valuable customer contacts or otherwise offer
growth opportunities. If we fail to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we
complete, our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects may be impaired.
Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including:

difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; 

difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of our acquired companies to our
technology platforms and business processes; 

diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; 

difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval for technologies and products of acquired companies; 

potential loss of key employees; 

if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing
stockholders may be diluted, which dilution could adversely affect the market price of our stock; 

- 23 -

Table of Contents   

inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition or investment costs; and 

potential write-offs of acquired assets. 

Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are
subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our operating results. It is also
possible that at some point in the future we may decide to enter new markets, thus subjecting
ourselves to new risks associated with those markets.

Our business will be seriously jeopardized if we are unable to attract and retain key employees.  

Our success depends on the continued contributions of our principal management, development and
scientific personnel, and the ability to hire and retain key personnel, particularly in the
technology area as we transition our business from manufacturing and distribution of slot machines
and other hardware to game content and technology and continue to grow our existing businesses. We
face intense competition for such personnel. The loss of services of any principal member of our
management team, particularly Russel McMeekin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or
Michael A. Sicuro, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer,
could adversely impact our operations and ability to raise additional capital.

If our products or technologies contain defects, our reputation could be harmed and our results of
operations adversely affected.  

Some of our products and technologies are complex and may contain undetected defects. The
occurrence of defects or malfunctions could result in financial losses for our customers and in
turn termination of leases, licenses, cancellation of orders, product returns and diversion of our
resources. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance
of our products or technologies and loss of sales.

As our business is subject to quarterly fluctuation, our operating results and stock price could be
volatile, particularly on a quarterly basis.  

Our quarterly revenue and net income may vary based on the timing of the opening of new gaming
jurisdictions, the opening or closing of casinos or the expansion or contraction of existing
casinos, gaming regulatory approval or denial of our products and corporate licenses, the
introduction of new products or the seasonality of customer capital budgets, and our operating
results have historically been lower in quarters with lower sales. In addition, historically,
approximately up to 40% of our revenues have been based on cash-based licensing transactions, the
majority of which are generated from intellectual property, content and technology licensing
activities. Most of these non-recurring transactional revenues are from gaming supplier OEMs and
service providers. Each such transaction is unique, depending on the nature, size, scope and
breadth of the intellectual property, content, or technology that is being licensed and/or the
rights the licensee or the buyer wishes to obtain. Also, these licensing transactions often take
several months, and in some cases, several quarters, to negotiate and consummate. As a result, our
quarterly revenues and net income may vary based on how and when we record these cash-based
transactions, and our operating results and stock price could be volatile, particularly on a
quarterly basis.

We have substantial debt and debt service requirements, which could have an adverse impact on our
business and the value of our common stock.  

On December 31, 2005, our total outstanding debt was approximately $45.0 million. We may incur
additional debt in the future. Substantial debt may make it more difficult for us to operate and
effectively compete in the gaming industry. The degree to which we and/or one or more of our
subsidiaries are leveraged could have important adverse consequences on our value as follows:

it may be difficult for us to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness; 

a significant portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated
to debt service and will not be available for other purposes that would
otherwise be operationally value-enhancing uses of such funds; 

our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital
expenditures, potential acquisition opportunities and other purposes may be
limited; 

we may be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures and may
have reduced financial flexibility in responding to changing business,
regulatory and economic conditions in the gaming industry; 

we may be at a competitive disadvantage because we may be more highly
leveraged than our competitors and, as a result, more restricted in our
ability to invest in our growth and expansion; 

it may cause us to fail to comply with applicable debt covenants and could
result in an event of default that could result in all of our indebtedness
being immediately due and payable; and 

- 24 -

Table of Contents   

if new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries  current debt levels, the
related risks that we and they now face could intensify. 

Substantially all of our assets are pledged as security to holders of our Senior Secured Notes. The
ability of our stockholders to participate in the distribution of our assets upon our liquidation
or recapitalization will be subject to the prior claims of our secured and unsecured creditors. Any
foreclosure of our assets by such creditors will materially reduce the assets available for
distribution to our stockholders.

We may be forced to reduce or delay growth initiatives and capital expenditures, obtain additional
equity capital or restructure our debt if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet
our debt service requirements.  

Our ability to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to make scheduled payments on our
debts as they become due will depend upon our future performance and ability to successfully
implement our business strategy.

Our performance will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business,
regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our current annual debt
service requirements are approximately $5.3 million

If our future cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to meet our debt obligations and
commitments, we may be forced to reduce or delay activities and capital expenditures, obtain
additional equity capital or restructure or refinance our debt. In the event that we are unable to
do so, we may be left without sufficient liquidity and we may not be able to meet our debt service
requirements. In such a case, an event of default would occur under our indenture and could result
in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. As a result, some or all of our
lenders would be able to foreclose on our assets.

Our lenders have imposed numerous debt covenants that include financial and operating restrictions
that may adversely affect how we conduct our business and potentially reduce our revenues and
affect the value of our common stock.  

We expect to continue to be subject to numerous covenants in our debt agreements that impose
financial and operating restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to
operate our business, may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities
as they arise, and may adversely affect the conduct and competitiveness of our current business,
which could in turn reduce our revenues and thus affect the value of our common stock.
Specifically, these covenants may place restrictions on our ability to, among other things:

incur more debt; 

pay dividends, redeem or repurchase our stock or make other distributions; 

make acquisitions or investments; 

use assets as security in other transactions; 

enter into transactions with affiliates; 

merge or consolidate with others; 

dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds; 

create liens on our assets; and 

extend credit. 

The terms of our indebtedness require that we meet a number of financial ratios and tests. Our
ability to meet these ratios and tests and to comply with other provisions governing our
indebtedness may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events beyond
our control. Our failure to comply with our debt-related obligations could result in an event of
default which, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness,
including without limitation, our senior secured notes. This in turn could have a material adverse
effect on our operations, our revenues and thus our common stock value.

Additionally, the covenants governing our indebtedness restrict the operations of our subsidiaries,
including, in some cases, limiting the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, and
these limitations could impair our ability to meet such financial ratios and tests.

Lastly, we are required by our senior secured notes to offer to repurchase or make certain payments
on our debt at times when we may lack the financial resources to do so, such as upon a change of
control. These expenditures may materially and adversely affect our

- 25 -

Table of Contents   

liquidity and our ability to maintain or grow our business as payments to satisfy the debt will be
diverted away from any investment in the growth of our business, thus potentially affecting the
value of our common stock.

We have been named as a defendant in litigation that could result in substantial costs and divert
management s attention and resources.  

Commencing on November 28, 2005, four similar purported class action complaints were filed against
us and two of our officers in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada, alleging
that during a  class period  beginning in early 2005 and ending on October 19, 2005, we misled
investors concerning the prospective application of SFAS 153 to our financial statements for the
third quarter of 2005. The actions seek unspecified money damages under Sections 10(b) and 20(a)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these
claims. However, no assurances can be made that we will be successful in our defense of the
pending claims. If we are not successful in our defense of such claims, we could be forced to,
among other things, make significant payments to resolve these claims, and such payments could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if not
covered by our insurance. Further, regardless of the outcome of the litigation, the litigation
itself may result in substantial costs and divert management s attention and resources, all of
which could adversely affect our business.

Risks Relating to Our Securities 

The share price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline substantially.  

The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile.
Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of issues including
broad market factors that may have a material adverse impact on our stock price, regardless of
actual performance. These factors include:

periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or of our competitors; 

downward revisions in securities analysts  estimates of our future operating results or of the future
operating results of our competitors; 

material announcements by us or our competitors; 

quarterly fluctuations in non-recurring revenues from cash-based licensing transactions; 

public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and 

adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends or in
conditions or trends in the markets in which we operate. 

If our quarterly results are below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors,
the price of our common stock may decline.  

Many factors, including those described in this  Risk Factors  section, can affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations, which makes the prediction of our financial results
difficult. These factors include:

changes in market conditions that can affect the demand for the products we sell; 

quarterly fluctuations in non-recurring revenues from cash-based licensing transactions; 

general economic conditions that affect the availability of disposable income among consumers; and 

the actions of our competitors. 

If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of securities market analysts and
investors due to these or other risks, securities analysts may downgrade our common stock and some
of our stockholders may sell their shares, which could adversely affect the trading prices of our
common stock. Additionally, in the past, companies that have experienced declines in the trading
price of their shares due to events of this nature have been the subject of securities class action
litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could
result in substantial costs and diversion of our management s attention and resources, thus harming
our business.

Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price.  

The market price for our common stock could decline as a result of sales by existing stockholders
of large numbers of shares of our

- 26 -

Table of Contents   

common stock or the perception that such sales may occur. Such sales of our common stock also might
make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time
and at the prices that we deem appropriate. Of the approximately 34.4 million shares that are
outstanding as of December 31, 2005, approximately 33.6 million shares generally are freely
tradable in the public market.

Additionally, as of December 31, 2005, there were outstanding options to purchase 2,825,102 of our
shares and we may grant options to purchase up to an additional 831,013 shares under our stock
option plans. Shares purchased on exercise of those options would be freely tradable in the public
market, except for any that might be acquired by our officers or directors.

If a recent action of an employee of one of our underwriters is held to be  gun jumping  in
violation of the Securities Act of 1933 or to constitute a prospectus that does not meet the
requirements of the Securities Act, we could be required to repurchase the securities sold in our
recent common stock offering.  

Prior to the effectiveness of the registration statement relating to our recent common stock
offering, in a televised interview, an analyst with one of our underwriters, among other things
recommended the Company as an investment choice. In addition, for a limited time, the underwriter
posted a clip of the interview on its website. These actions were taken without our authorization
or prior knowledge. However, these actions could be held by a court to be a violation of Section 5
of the Securities Act of 1933, in which case purchasers in our recent common stock offering may
have the right, for a period of one year following the date of the violation, to obtain recovery of
the consideration paid in connection with their purchase or, if they have already sold the shares,
to sue us for damages resulting from the purchase. Although we would contest vigorously any claim
that a violation of the Securities Act occurred, we cannot assure you that such a claim will not be
made.

We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of our
issued and outstanding common stock.  

The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would
result in dilution of then-existing stockholders  equity interests in us. Our Board of Directors
has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, up to 5,000,000 shares of
preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences,
privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain
dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices,
liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. If
we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common
stockholders  interest. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any such
preferred stock, but reserves the right to do so in the future.

We do not intend to pay cash dividends. As a result, stockholders will benefit from an investment
in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.  

We do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, since we
currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and further expansion and
growth of our business, including acquisitions. Moreover, the covenants governing our indebtedness
restrict our ability to pay and declare dividends without the consent of the applicable lender. As
a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation
in its value. We cannot guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain
the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares.

Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, our stockholder rights plan and Nevada
law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult and therefore could affect the price
investors may be willing to pay for our common stock.  

The anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, our stockholder rights
plan and Nevada law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the
approval of our board of directors. Under these provisions, we could delay, deter or prevent a
takeover attempt or third-party acquisition that certain of our stockholders may consider to be in
their best interests, including a takeover attempt that may result in a premium over the market
price of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may prevent the market price of our common
stock from increasing substantially in response to actual or rumored takeover attempts and also may
prevent changes in our management. Because these anti-takeover provisions may result in our being
perceived as a potentially more difficult takeover target, this may affect the price investors are
willing to pay for shares of our common stock.

- 27 -

Table of Contents   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

None.

Item 2. Properties 

The table below lists our leased administrative, engineering, operations, sales and service
facilities as of December 31, 2005.

These locations have remaining terms of occupancy ranging up to six years that expire on
various dates through 2011.

See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information as to our lease
commitments with respect to the foregoing rental properties. We believe these facilities are
suitable for our needs and we have no future expansion plans that would make these properties
inadequate.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 

We were sued by Derek Webb and related plaintiffs in the U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Mississippi, Jackson Division, in a case filed on December 27, 2002. The plaintiffs allege state
law interference with business relations claims and federal antitrust violations and contend that
we illegally restrained trade and attempted to monopolize the proprietary table game market in the
United States. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages, penalties and attorneys  fees in excess of several
million dollars, and injunctive relief. There is no trial date presently set.

We filed suit against Charles H. McCrea, Jr. on March 13, 2003 in State District Court, Clark
County, Nevada to cause Mr. McCrea to repay a loan he received from the Company that had come due,
including interest. McCrea counterclaimed on April 7, 2003, seeking damages in excess of $1,000,000
and the reinstatement of 265,000 incentive stock options. A portion of this matter proceeded to
arbitration in 2006, and we are awaiting a decision from the arbitrator on the matter. Another portion of this matter proceeded
to a jury trial which concluded on March 28, 2006. In this jury trial, we were awarded the payment of a loan by McCrea of
approximately $176,000, and Mr. McCrea was awarded a nonpunitive
judgment of approximately $750,000. We do not expect to incur any
material costs for the net effect of this outcome as our insurance policies are believed to be
sufficient to cover the expense.

We are currently in a dispute with Hasbro, Inc. that was filed in the U.S. District Court in Rhode
Island centering primarily around the calculation of royalty payments from 1999-2002 on the sale
and license of certain of our branded slot machines. Hasbro is seeking monetary damages, which
could be in excess of several million dollars. A substantial portion of these payments have been
previously audited by Hasbro representatives without a material dispute.

We received a complaint from Olaf Vancura, an employee, on July 18, 2005, alleging various claims
associated with allegations of breach of employment agreement. A claim for the return of patents
assigned to the Company has also been made. Under our agreement with Mr. Vancura, the matter is
required to be handled through binding arbitration. Arbitration has been set for October 30, 2006.

Commencing on November 28, 2005, four similar purported class action complaints were filed in the
United States District Court for the District of Nevada naming the Company and two of our officers
as defendants, and seeking unspecified money damages under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The complaints all alleged that during a  class period 
beginning in early 2005 and ending on October 19, 2005, the defendants misled the Company s
investors concerning the prospective application of

- 28 -

Table of Contents   

SFAS 153 to the Company s financial statements for the third quarter of 2005. The complaints have
been consolidated into a single action, and a consolidated amended complaint is due to be filed in
April 2006. No discovery has been conducted and no trial date has been set.

In December 2005, Interactive Systems Worldwide Inc. ( ISWI ) filed an action against us in the
Federal District Court for New Jersey, alleging that our  Rapid Bet Live  and  Prime Line  products
infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 5,573,244 and 5,842,921. In March 2006, the Federal District Court for
New Jersey transferred this action to the Federal District Court for Nevada.

From time to time we are also involved in other legal matters, litigation and claims of various
types in the ordinary course of our business operations, including matters involving bankruptcies
of debtors, collection efforts, disputes with former employees and other matters. We intend to
defend all of these matters vigorously. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful
in defending any of the matters described above or any other legal matters, litigation or claims in
which we may become involved from time to time. If we are not successful in defending these
matters, we may be required to pay substantial license fees, royalties or damages, including
statutory or other damages, and/or discontinue a portion of our operations. Furthermore, our
insurance coverage and other capital resources may be inadequate to cover anticipated costs of
these lawsuits or any possible settlements, damage awards or license fees. Even if unsuccessful,
these claims still can harm our business severely by damaging our reputation, requiring us to incur
legal costs, lowering our stock price and public demand for our stock, and diverting management s
attention away from our primary business activities in general.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

None.

PART II 

Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Repurchases of Equity Securities 

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 

On October 20, 2005, an outstanding warrant to purchase 15,500 shares of our common stock at an
exercise price of $5.875375 per share was exercised pursuant to a cashless exercise provision.
This resulted in the issuance of 8,730 shares of our common stock. For this issuance, we relied on
the exemption provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ( Section 4(2) ).

On October 20, 2005, outstanding warrants to purchase 62,500 shares of our common stock at an
exercise price of $6.438 per share were exercised pursuant to cashless exercise provisions. This
resulted in the issuance of 33,406 shares of our common stock. For this issuance, we relied on the
exemption provided by Section 4(2).

On December 13, 2005, we issued an aggregate of 5,480 shares of our common stock to a holder of one
of our outstanding warrants upon that holder s cash exercise of the warrant. The warrant had an
exercise price of $7.70 per share, for an aggregate exercise price paid to us of $42,196. For this
issuance, we relied on the exemption provided by Section 4(2).

On December 21, 2005, we issued an aggregate of 1,000 shares of our common stock to a holder of one
of our outstanding warrants upon that holder s cash exercise of the warrant. The warrant had an
exercise price of $5.875375 per share, for an aggregate exercise price paid to us of $5,875.38.
For this issuance, we relied on the exemption provided by Section 4(2).

Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol  PGIC . The following
table sets forth the range of high and low sales prices per share by quarter for our common stock.

As of
March 28, 2006, we had approximately 357 holders of record of our common stock.

We have never paid dividends nor do we have any plans to pay dividends in the foreseeable
future. At present, we intend to retain all future earnings for use in the development of our
business. The indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes due 2008 expressly prohibits the payment
of cash dividends except under specified circumstances. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for information as to our Senior Secured Note commitments.

- 29 -

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes equity securities authorized for issuance as of December 31,
2005:

(1) 
       
     Amount represents warrants to purchase 347,500 shares of our common stock issued to various licensors which granted us rights to intellectual property. 

(2) 
       
     Amounts exclude 193,913 options and 293,020 warrants assumed in the acquisition of VirtGame, which have a weighted average exercise price of $15.11. 

- 30 -

Table of Contents   

Item 6. Selected Financial Data 

The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated
financial statements and related notes and  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The table below sets forth a summary of our selected financial data for each of the years ended
December 31, ( amounts in thousands except per share amounts ):

Certain balance sheet and income statement amounts reported in the prior years have been reclassified to follow the Company s current year s reporting practice.

- 31 -

Table of Contents   

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

This information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto contained herein. Except for the historical information contained
herein, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
uncertainties. Our future results could differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that
could cause or contribute to such differences include risks detailed in Part I, Item I under the
caption  Risk Factors  and elsewhere in this Annual Report on   Form 10-K  . 

Overview 

We are a leading developer and marketer of technology-based products for the gaming industry.
Our business consists of two reportable segments:

Slot and Table Games.  Our table and slot games segment develops, acquires, licenses and
distributes proprietary and non-proprietary branded and non-branded table and slot games.
We lease our table and slot games and license our content to customers in exchange for
recurring revenue consisting of (i) fixed periodic fees, (ii) a percentage of the  net win 
( net win  produced by a gaming device is defined as the gross revenue minus all jackpots,
payouts and any approved claims) of the gaming devices for our more popular titles or (iii)
license fees for any proprietary slot game content provided to third parties for use on
their game hardware. We also receive one-time license fees for our table and slot game
content. During 2003, we shifted our business model from focusing on table and slot
hardware assembly operations to third party manufacturers and distributors. In connection
with this transition, we incurred approximately $2.5 million of other expenses related to
the write-down of obsolete slot machines and related hardware, as well as $0.6 million in
related severance expense. This shift allowed us to focus our human and capital resources
on developing and distributing game content, a business with higher margins and lower
capital expenditures. 

Systems.  Our systems segment consists of the license of our management and progressive
jackpot systems. These systems enable casinos to track the wagers placed by both table and
slot players as well as accurately account for the performance of each table and slot game.
These systems also enable casinos to implement their own progressive jackpots and bonusing.
Systems revenues are primarily comprised of software, hardware and support services, which
comprise of both upfront payments as well as recurring fees based on the total number of
gaming devices under management. 

Our historical products segment, which included our interior sign division sold in the second
quarter of 2005 and our electronic jackpot and mystery systems, has been revised. We will now
include electronic jackpot and mystery systems in our system segment.

A significant portion of our revenues is generated from the license of systems, intellectual
property and game content. Our licensing revenues were 20% and 13% of our overall revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in license revenues is
primarily a result of our continued focus on our technology and content business model. In both
2004 and 2005, approximately half of our license fees related to game content and half related to
systems and intellectual property licenses. Significant licensing transactions during the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2005 include the license of our Caribbean Stud    game to certain large
customers and distributors, and the license of certain intellectual property to other gaming
suppliers for use in their products.

In December 2004, we announced our intent to focus the business on game content and technology and
completed several strategic transactions immediately following this decision (see Acquisitions /
Divestitures below). We revised our business segment reporting in the third quarter of 2005 as a
result of the realignment of the business. Also, in 2003, we expanded the disclosure of our
revenues and expenses. The principal changes from previous presentations were related to the
disclosure of direct and indirect costs of revenues by segment, and separate disclosure of
significant expenses related to slot rent, research and development, and depreciation and
amortization. This more expanded view of our operating lines of business classifies royalties as a
cost of revenue along with other direct costs of revenues by business segment. Previous
presentations classified this cost as a reduction of revenues. Operating income or loss, net income
or loss, and basic and fully diluted earnings or loss per share for prior periods are unchanged
from previous presentations. With respect to our current segments, we evaluate performance and
allocate resources based upon profit or loss from operations before income taxes. The accounting
policies of our reportable segments are the same as those described in the summary of critical
accounting policies below.

Acquisitions / Divestitures 

In December 2004, we entered into two strategic transactions to enhance our table games and
table systems products. First, we agreed to acquire the table games management system, PitTrak   ,
including its existing customer base from Hotel Systems Pty, Ltd. of Sydney Australia. PitTrak    has
a similar functionality as TableLink    and provided us with an existing installed base of over 400
tables and access to sell its management solutions worldwide. The purchase of PitTrak    was
completed in January 2005. We also purchased and exclusively licensed certain suites of patents
related to player card image based recognition (IBR) and licensed the exclusive rights to develop
and distribute an IBR card recognition shoe.

In connection with our focus on game content and technology we sold our interior sign division
during May 2005.

In June 2005, we entered into a worldwide exclusive license with Magellan, a developer of
advanced, high-speed ISO-compliant RFID systems. We licensed, on an exclusive basis, for the life
of the subject patents, Magellan s rights to its RFID reader, tag and related intellectual property
for any gaming applications. We also purchased a minority equity stake in Magellan.

In conjunction with the development of our slot and content technology, we acquired VirtGame Corp.
during the fourth quarter of 2005 in a stock swap in which we will issue 1,758,498 shares of our
common stock. VirtGame Corp. was a provider of open architecture gaming software primarily focused
on the delivery of central server-based slot games and centrally managed sports betting.

On November 28, 2005, we acquired EndX, a global gaming management systems software company
headquartered in the United Kingdom, for approximately $29.2 million in cash, including transaction
costs. EndX had been one of our key strategic partners for over three years.

Financing and Other Matters 

Debt Retirement.   During 2003, we completed a private placement for approximately $45.0 million from
selling 8.4 million shares of our Common Stock at a price of $5.34 per share and warrants to
acquire an additional 2.1 million shares at an exercise price of $5.875 per share. Proceeds from
the transaction were used to repurchase and retire $40.0 million of the Company s 11.875% senior
secured notes due 2008, or the Notes, and to pay the associated fees and costs. This transaction
will reduce our annual interest expense by approximately $4.0 million. This refinancing resulted in
the incurrence of $9.5 million of non-cash charges ($5.3 million related to the write-off of
unamortized bond discounts and $4.2 million related to the implied fair value of warrants issued in
the refinancing), including $3.4 million of transaction fees and expenses.

- 32 -

Table of Contents   

We retired $20.0 million of our Notes during 2005. We have recognized a loss on early retirement
of $3.0 million, comprising $1.8 million of non-cash charges related to the write-off of
unamortized bond discounts and unamortized debt issue costs, and a call premium of $1.2 million
paid in cash.

Equity Offering.   During 2005, we completed a public equity offering of approximately 8.3 million
shares of our Common Stock at a price of $9.25 per share. Proceeds from the transaction were
approximately $70.0 million, and were used to repurchase and retire $20.0 million of the Company s
Notes, fund strategic developments and acquisitions, including the acquisition of EndX, and provide
working capital and for other general corporate purposes.

General Information 

Amounts disclosed in the accompanying tables are rounded to the nearest thousand while amounts
included in text are disclosed in actual amounts. All percentages reported are based on those
rounded numbers.

Results of Operations 

Revenues and Cost of Revenues 

Slot and table games.   During 2005, we announced our intent to dispose of our legacy
slot route to allow us to focus on central-server based gaming technology. In September 2005, we
licensed our legacy slot operating system to a third party as more
fully described in Note 1 in
the accompanying financial statements. As a result of these events, our legacy slot revenues
declined in 2005. We plan to introduce our central-server based games in certain jurisdictions
during 2006.

We continue to increase our pipeline of new slot content to replace legacy slot brands as they
expire or decline in popularity. In December 2005 our license arrangement with Hasbro for the
Yahtzee    and Battleship    brands expired. However, the Company has recently introduced new brands
such as KISS   , the Beach Boys   , and Ed McMahon as well as 34 non-branded slot titles. We expect
our revenues from legacy brands to decline but anticipate a significant increase in revenues from
this new pipeline of slot content during 2006.

Historically our table games arrangements were lease agreements, generally with terms of one to
three years. In late 2004, we began selling our Caribbean Stud    table games to certain large
customers and distributors under perpetual license / sale arrangements. Our Texas Hold Em Bonus 
poker / World Series of Poker    game will continue to be leased under arrangements with terms of one
to three years.

Slot and table game revenues for 2005 decreased by 17% compared to 2004. Slot revenues decreased
42.4% for the year ended December 31, 2005, and table revenues decreased 27.6 % for the same
period. The decrease is primarily attributable to a decline in slot and table revenues under daily
fee arrangements, partially offset by higher licensing revenues. For the year ended December 31,
2005, our slot route revenues declined due to a decrease in the
installed base under daily fee arrangements (from 1,666 in 2004 to
336 in 2005) and slightly lower net win
(net win produced by a slot machine is defined as the gross revenue minus all jackpots, payouts,
fills and any approved claims). We anticipate our slot revenues will increase during 2006 as we
release new slot machine brands and obtain regulatory approvals for existing products. Our table
games installed base under daily fee arrangements declined from 932
in 2004 to 785 in 2005, primarily due to the conversion of Caribbean Stud   
tables from lease arrangements to perpetual license arrangements. These conversions resulted in a
decline of our recurring revenue base but increased our one-time licensing revenues. Overall,
table game revenues declined as a result of these conversions and as a result of a lower daily
fee under our remaining lease arrangements. We expect our daily fees under our lease arrangements
to increase as we place our progressive version of Texas Hold Em Bonus  poker / World Series of
Poker    in 2006.

Slot and table game revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 were consistent with revenues
earned in 2003. Revenues from slot contracts under daily fee arrangements declined, but were offset
by increases in revenues under our periodic fee arrangements and increases in license fees from
intellectual property rights. The decline in daily fee arrangements was attributable to a slight
decrease in win per unit and a lower installed base. Table games revenues were also flat in 2004
compared to 2003 and there was no material shift in the installed base or fee per day of
outstanding table game contracts in the same periods.

Interior signage.   The interior signage segment, which was sold in the second quarter of 2005,
manufactured and sold interior casino signage and related products. The interior signage operation
previously was combined with the electronic jackpot and mystery systems in the Products Segment.
In 2005, we revised our segment information to be more consistent with our new business model. We
now report our revenues in two segments: (1) slot and table games and (2) systems and electronic
jackpot and mystery systems. As a result of this change, we have reclassified our 2004 revenues to
conform to the current segment presentation. We have not made

- 33 -

Table of Contents   

these conforming changes for 2003 because the information necessary to conform to the current
presentation is not available.

Systems.   During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, our systems revenues were $39.3
million, representing an increase of 9.8% as compared to 2004. This improvement was primarily due
to increased demand for our CasinoLink    Enterprise Edition products. Our table management
installed base grew approximately 80% over 2004. We continue to report consistent increases in our
slot management installed base, including an 18% growth in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004.
For the year ended December 31, 2004, systems revenues were $15.0 million, representing a 7.9%
increase over the prior year. TableLink Systems revenue nearly doubled in 2004 compared to 2003 due
to several large installations in Canada and Native American jurisdictions. Maintenance revenues
also increased year-over-year as we continue to grow our installed base of both CasinoLink and
TableLink.

Gross profit.   Gross profit decreased in 2005 versus 2004 due to higher systems hardware sales
in 2005 compared to 2004. Gross profit increased in 2004 versus 2003 as a result of changes in our
product mix with higher margin generated from slot contracts under periodic fee arrangements.

Condensed Statement of Operations 

Selling, general and administrative expense    ( SG A  ). SG A increased by approximately $1.1
million in the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004, and decreased by approximately $2.4
million in the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in 2005 compared to 2004
was due primarily to additional legal and compliance costs necessary to continue to achieve
regulatory approvals for our new products, costs incurred in connection with the documentation and
testing of our business processes under the new corporate governance requirements and continued
investments in upgrading our human capital. In 2003, selling, general and administrative expense
included a $5.8 million write-down of assets that no longer generated sufficient cash flow to
support their carrying value, severance and other costs associated with the reductions in service,
international and management personnel and the closing of the manufacturing facility at our
European subsidiary; and the separation and post-employment agreement costs for certain officers
and directors.

Slot rent expense.   Slot rent expense is the use of operating leases to finance the purchase and
placement of slot machines. Slot rent expense decreased substantially in 2004 due to the expiration
of slot leases during the current fiscal year. As of December 31, 2004, substantially all of our
slot leases were expired or terminated.

Research and development expense ( R D ).   Our R D spending continues to increase as we focus on
developing game content for licensing to third parties and the further development of our casino
management systems products through CasinoLink    Enterprise Edition   Modular Casino Management
System. During 2005, research and development expense increased by 32.1% compared to the same
period in 2004. During 2004, research and development expense increased by 18.3% compared to the
same period in 2003. We expect R D to continue to increase as a percentage of revenue during fiscal
2006 as part of this change in our business model.

Depreciation and amortization.   Depreciation and amortization decreased 45.1% in 2005 compared
to 2004 as a result of the $4.9 million write-down of our legacy slot hardware in June 2005.
Depreciation and amortization also decreased 37.8% in 2004 compared to 2003 due to a change in the
depreciable lives of our fixed assets. During 2003, the Company had determined that the useful
lives of its existing slot machines should be accelerated as these assets were expected to be
replaced. As of September 2004, the Company had not replaced these slot machines and has
subsequently invested in refurbishment hardware for these devices. As such, the useful lives of
these machines have been extended consistent with industry standards.

Net gain on disposition of non-core assets.   During 2005, we recognized a net gain on disposition
of non-core assets of $2.5 million as a result of completing two key strategic transactions.
During the second quarter, we completed the sale of the interior sign division, which resulted in a
gain of approximately $7.4 million including transaction costs. Additionally, we commenced the
process of repositioning our existing slot machine platform to focus on central-server based game
and third party content development. In connection with this repositioning, we entered into an
asset purchase agreement to sell certain non-gaming slot hardware related to our existing

- 34 -

Table of Contents   

platform. In connection with the repositioning, we recorded an impairment charge of $4.9 million
equal to the amount by which the carrying value exceeded the fair value determined by the selling
price.

Gain on sale of core intellectual property.   During the third quarter of 2005, we completed a
strategic licensing transaction, whereby we sold the remaining rights to certain intellectual
property in a barter transaction, but retained a non-exclusive license in the intellectual property
for use in our operations.

Interest expense.   Interest expense decreased $0.8 million during 2005 due to the retirement of
$20 million of the Senior Secured Notes during the fourth quarter, and due to the completion of
amortizing certain debt issue costs. Interest expense decreased $4.6 million during 2004 due to
the retirement of $40.0 million of Senior Secured Notes in late 2003.

Loss on early retirement of debt  . During the fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a $3.0
million loss on the early retirement of $20.0 million of our Senior Secured Notes. Of this charge,
$1.2 million was a call premium paid in cash, and $1.8 million was a non-cash charge related to
writing off related debt discount and prepaid debt issue costs.

Other income.   Other income consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash deposits. Other
income increased in 2005 compared to 2004, and in 2004 compared to 2003, due to larger
accumulations of cash and cash equivalents during those years.

Income taxes.   The Company did not recognize a tax benefit or provision related to its domestic
operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003 due to the Company s net operating
loss position. In 2004 and 2003, the income tax benefits recorded in the statements of operations
related primarily to foreign tax credits and state income tax adjustments.

Earnings (loss) per share.   Basic and diluted loss per share for the year ended December 31,
2005 was $(0.24) on 25.1 million basic and diluted average common shares outstanding. The basic
and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $0.01 on 21.9 million basic
and 22.4 million diluted average common shares outstanding. Both basic and diluted loss per share
for the year ended December 31, 2003 were ($2.33) on basic and diluted weighted average common
shares outstanding of approximately 14.7 million.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

During 2005, cash generated from operations, warrant and option exercises and from our equity
offering in the fourth quarter was used primarily for the acquisitions of PitTrak, VirtGame and
EndX, the acquisition of various types of strategic IP, the retirement of a portion of our high
yield debt, debt service and working capital.

For 2005, the Company incurred a net loss of approximately $6.0 million. Net cash and cash
equivalents at December 31, 2005 were $14.1 million, an increase of approximately $1.8 million from
$12.3 million at December 31, 2004. Working capital increased from $18.3 million at December 31,
2004 to $31.9 million at December 31, 2005. The working capital increase of approximately $13.6
million was due principally to a $1.8 million increase in cash, a $9.3 million increase in
receivables, a $1.0 million increase in prepaids, a $0.2 increase in inventories, and a $1.8
million decrease in customer deposits, partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in accounts
payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities. The increase in receivables was related
to a significant increase in the contract sales of IP and content, reflected in contracts
receivable, offset by payment receipts and a reduction from the sale of the interior sign division.

Significant components of cash flows from operations are as follows:

(Amounts in millions)   

Net loss

$ 
     (6.0       
     ) 

Non-cash items

6.6 

Gain on disposition of non-core assets

(2.5       
     ) 

Loss on early retirement of debt

3.0 

Other changes in assets and liabilities

(22.4       
     ) 

Net cash used in operations

$ 
     (21.3       
     ) 

Other changes in assets and liabilities includes an increase in receivables of $11.1 million,
primarily due to a significant increase in the licensing and sale of intellectual property and
content, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $6.6 million, primarily prepaid
royalties for game content.

Cash used in investing activities during 2005 was approximately $36.2 million, consisting primarily
of $36.2 million in net cash payments for acquisitions, $8.7 million in capitalized costs of
intangible assets, and $2.8 million purchases of fixed assets, partially offset by $11.5 million in
net proceeds from sales of non-core assets and fixed assets.

Cash provided by financing activities was approximately $59.6 million during 2005. The significant
components of this amount were $69.9 million in net cash received from an equity offering, $11.4
million from the exercise of options and warrants, partially offset by $21.2 million in principal
and call premium paid to retire a portion of our Senior Secured Notes, $0.4 million in treasury
stock purchases, and $0.1 million paid on capital leases and other noncurrent debt.

The following table summarizes the Company s contractual obligations for long-term debt,
capital leases, interest expense, operating leases, license fees and employment agreements for the
periods shown:

- 35 -

Table of Contents   

The table above excludes accretion of debt discount of $1.0 million for the periods shown.

Although there can be no assurance, we believe
that the cash on hand of $14.1 million at
December 31, 2005, along with the expected increase in cash flows from operations over the next 12
months, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital needs through December 31, 2006.
Additionally, management is in the process of evaluating financing alternatives, including a
credit facility. This financing would likely be used for ongoing contractual commitments,
strategic investments in intellectual property, and other operating purposes.

Employment Agreements 

We have entered into employment contracts, with our corporate officers and certain other key
employees. Significant contract provisions include minimum annual base salaries, healthcare
benefits, life insurance benefits, bonus compensation if performance measures are achieved, changes
in control (CIC), grants of restricted stock, incentive stock options and non-compete provisions.
These contracts are primarily  at will  employment agreements, under which we or the employee may
terminate employment. If we terminate any of these employees without cause, then we are obligated
to pay the employee severance benefits as specified in their individual contract.

Purchase Commitments 

From time to time, we enter into commitments with our vendors to purchase inventory at fixed
prices or in guaranteed quantities. From time to time we also enter into certain intellectual
property license arrangements that require upfront payments upon signing and/or additional payments
upon our election to renew the licenses. In addition, we may choose to negotiate and renew
licenses upon their normal expiration. No assurances can be given as to the terms of such renewals,
if any.

In August 2004, we signed a license and development agreement with IGT to license
segments of our patent portfolio of technology and to develop video slot games based on our
content, for a term continuing until the last to expire of the patent rights under the agreement.
The new games are to be developed on IGT s game platform and distributed by us. Pursuant to this
agreement, IGT also licenses aspects of its intellectual property to us for its games and we are
committed to purchase from IGT a minimum of 600 slot machines carrying our game content on them
over the life of the agreement. The Company will be required to pay for the slot machines through
a daily fee arrangement whereby IGT will receive an amount equal to 25% of the Company s gross
revenue derived from the slot machines, with a minimum of $12.50 per day per machine, as defined in
the agreement.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements with unconsolidated entities or
other persons.

Capital Expenditures and Other 

During 2005, we spent approximately $1.9 million for purchases of property and equipment and
$.9 million for purchases of inventory leased to others. We expect to spend approximately the same
amount for capital expenditures in 2006.

We are a party to post-employment agreements entered into in August 2002 with our former CEO
and CFO to provide cash payments of approximately $2.8 million and $0.8 million respectively. The
agreements require payments subsequent to December 31, 2002 of approximately $2.0 million plus
medical costs through August 2006. In March 2003, we reached an agreement with our former CEO
whereby he resigned from the board of directors and specifically as chairman of the board. In March
2003, we paid our former CEO all outstanding future payments totaling approximately $1.4 million
and agreed to pay certain legal costs incurred by the former CEO in the approximate amount of $0.5
million.

Share Repurchase Plan 

On August 13, 2002 our Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to $2.0 million of our
common stock. The purchases may be made from time to time in the open market. The timing and actual
number of shares to be purchased will depend on market conditions. Through December 31, 2005, we
have purchased approximately 254,000 shares of our common stock for approximately $1.3 million.

Critical Accounting Policies 

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Certain of our accounting policies require that we apply
significant estimates, judgments and assumptions, that we believe are reasonable, in calculating
the reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure
of contingent assets and liabilities. By their nature, these estimates are subject to an inherent
degree of uncertainty. Our judgments are based on our historical experience, terms of existing
contracts, our observance of known industry trends, and information available from outside sources,
as appropriate. On a regular basis, we evaluate our estimates including those related to lives
assigned to our assets, the determination of bad debts, inventory valuation reserves, asset
impairment and self-insurance reserves. There can be no assurance that actual results will not
differ from our estimates.

We have identified the following policies as critical to our business operations and the
understanding of our results of operations: revenue recognition, receivables and allowance for
doubtful accounts, inventories and obsolescence, and long-lived asset impairment. To provide an
understanding of the methodology we apply these and other significant accounting policies discussed
below and where appropriate in the notes to our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Recognition 

The Company recognizes revenue as follows:

Slot and Table Games.   We lease and sell proprietary slot and table games to casino customers.
Table game lease contracts are typically for a 36-month period with a 30-day cancellation clause.
The lease revenue is recognized on a monthly basis. Slot machine lease contracts are either on
revenue participation or a fixed-rental basis. Slot machine lease contracts are typically for a
month-to-month period with a 30-day cancellation clause. On a participation basis, we earn a share
of the revenue that the casino earns from these slot machines. On a fixed-rental basis, we charge a
fixed amount per slot machine per day. Revenues from both types of lease arrangements are
recognized on the accrual basis. The sales agreements for proprietary table games and slot games
consist of the sale of hardware and a perpetual license for the proprietary intellectual property.
Slot and table game sales are executed by a signed contract or a customer purchase order.
We generally recognize revenues for these sales agreements when the hardware and intellectual
property is delivered to the customer.

- 36 -

Table of Contents   

Systems.   System sales consist of a suite of products (some of which are sold separately) that
enable gaming entities to track customer gaming activity, account for slot machine activity and
operate progressive jackpot systems. There are proprietary hardware and software components to the
systems. The Company accounts for system sales in accordance with Statement of Position 97- 2 -
Software Revenue Recognition ( SOP 97-2 ). System sales are considered multiple element
arrangements because they include hardware, software, installation, training and post-sale customer
support. System sales are evidenced by a signed contract. Follow-up spare parts and hardware-only
sales are evidenced by a purchase order. Revenue for system sales is recognized when: (i) there is
a signed contract with a fixed determinable price; (ii) collectibility of the sale is probable; and
(iii) the hardware and software have been delivered, installed, training has been completed and
acceptance has occurred. Not all systems contracts require installation. Examples include sales of
hardware only to (i) previous customers that are expanding their systems, (ii) customers that have
multiple locations and do the installation themselves and require an additional software license
and hardware and (iii) customers purchasing spare parts.

Postcontract Customer Support.   Maintenance and support for all of our products are sold under
agreements with established vendor-specific objective evidence of
fair value in accordance with the applicable accounting literature. These
contracts are generally for a period of three years and revenue is recognized ratably over the
contract service period. Further training is also sold under agreements with established
vendor-specific objective evidence of price, which is based on daily rates and is recognized upon
delivery.

License Arrangements   .  A significant portion of our revenues are generated from the license of
intellectual property, software and game content. These licenses are sold on a stand-alone basis
or in multiple element arrangements. We recognize revenues from these transactions in accordance
with the applicable accounting literature. Revenues under perpetual license arrangements are
generally recognized when the license is delivered. Revenues under fixed term arrangements are
generally recognized over the term of the arrangement or in a manner consistent with the earnings
process. For arrangements with multiple deliverables, revenue is generally recognized as the
elements are delivered so long as the undelivered elements have established fair values as required
in the applicable accounting literature.

Interior Signage.   Product sales are executed by a signed contract or customer purchase order.
Revenue is recognized when the completed product is delivered. If the agreement calls for the
Company to perform an installation after delivery, revenue related to the installation is
recognized when the installation has been completed and accepted by the customer.

Inventory and Obsolescence 

We routinely evaluate the realizability of our inventory based on a combination of factors
including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, estimated service
period, product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values, service inventory
requirements and new product introductions, as well as other factors. Purchasing requirements and
alternative usage avenues are explored within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. Raw
materials and work in progress with quantities in excess of forecasted usage are reviewed at least
quarterly by our engineering and operating personnel for obsolescence. Such raw material and work
in progress write-downs are typically caused by engineering change orders or product end of life
adjustments. Finished goods are reviewed at least quarterly by product marketing and operating
personnel to determine if inventory carrying costs exceed market selling prices. Service inventory
is systematically reserved for based on the estimated remaining service life of the inventory. We
record reserves for inventory based on the above factors and take into account worldwide quantities
and demand in our analysis. In 2005 and 2004, we reduced our reserves through write-offs of
obsolete inventories and adjusted the level of reserves in accordance with our accounting policies.
If circumstances related to our inventories change, our estimates of the realizability of inventory
could materially change.

Long-Lived Asset Impairment 

Long-lived assets and intangible assets with determinable lives are reviewed for impairment
quarterly or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of assets may not
be recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-lived Assets.  We evaluate recoverability of assets to be held and used by comparing the
carrying amount of an asset to future net undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset. If
such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured as the
amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Such
reviews assess the fair value of the assets based upon our estimates of the future cash flows we
expected the assets to generate. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may
be required to strategically realign our resources in the future, which could result in an
impairment of long-lived assets.

For indefinite-lived assets including perpetual licenses and goodwill, an independent valuation
is performed at least annually to determine if any impairment has occurred.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
( SFAS ) No. 151,  Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.  The amendment clarifies
that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials
(spoilage) should be recognized as current-period charges and requires the allocation of fixed
production overheads to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The
guidance is effective for our fiscal year beginning on January 1, 2006. We believe that the
adoption of this amendment will not have a material impact to our overall results of operations or
financial position.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 123R,
 Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123R ) that establishes standards for accounting for transactions
in which a company exchanges its equity instruments for goods and services or incurs a liability in
exchange for goods and services that is based on the fair value of the entity s equity instruments
or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. The primary focus of this
pronouncement is on issuing share-based payments for services provided by employees. This
pronouncement also requires recognition of compensation expense for new equity instruments awarded
or for modifications, cancellations or repurchases of existing awards starting January 1, 2006.
Compensation expense for new equity awards, in most cases, will be based on the fair value of the
stock on the date of grant and will be recognized over the vesting service period. An award of a
liability instrument, as defined by this pronouncement, will initially be recorded at fair value
and will be adjusted each reporting period to the new fair value through the date of settlement.
Additionally, in March 2005, the SEC issued SAB 107,  Share-Based Payment,  providing interpretive
guidance on SFAS 123R valuation methods, assumptions used in valuation models, and the interaction
of SFAS 123R with existing SEC guidance. SAB 107 also requires the classification of stock
compensation expense to the same financial statement line item as cash compensation, and therefore,
may impact cost of sales and service, related gross profits and margins, selling, general and
administrative expenses and research and development expenses. As a public company, we are allowed
to select from two alternative transition methods, each having different reporting implications.
While management has not yet completed its evaluation of this statement, the adoption of this
statement is expected to have a material negative impact on our results of operations.
However, due to the  non-cash  nature of stock option expense, we do not expect the adoption of
this statement to have an impact on our cash flows.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 109-1, Application of SFAS No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified

- 37 -

Table of Contents   

Production Activities provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ( FSP No. 109-1 ). FSP No.
109-1 states that the qualified production activities deduction should be accounted for as a
special deduction in accordance with SFAS No. 109. This statement was effective upon issuance. The
adoption of this statement had no material impact on our results of operations, financial position
or cash flows.

In December 2004, the FASB reached unanimous consensus on Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) 04-8,
 The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings Per Share.  EITF 04-8 requires
that the dilutive effect of outstanding contingent convertible notes shares be included in diluted
earnings per share calculation, regardless of whether the market price trigger or other contingent
conversion feature has been met. Since the Company currently has no outstanding contingent
convertible debt, the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our overall
results of operations or financial position.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.  SFAS 154 changes the requirement for
the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle and guidance for retrospective
application of a change in accounting principle. The statement also requires that a change in
depreciation, amortization or depletion method for long-lived, non-financial assets be accounted
for as a change in accounting estimate effected by a change in accounting principle. The statement
carries forward, without change, the guidance contained in APB Opinion No. 20 for reporting the
correction of errors in previously issued financial statements and changes in accounting estimates.
The provisions of SFAS 154 will be effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 154 to have a material impact on our
results of operations or consolidated financial position.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Market Risk 

Foreign Currency Risk 

There are two types of foreign currency exchange risks that a company may be subject to:
transaction and translation gains or losses. Foreign currency transaction gains or losses are
distinguished from translation gains or losses as follows: (i) translation adjustments do not
involve the movement of cash, they are accounting conversion calculations of an existing functional
currency to a reporting currency and (ii) transaction gain or losses, however, are based on an
actual transaction that requires formal payment at a future point in time.

We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk relating to the translation of our foreign
subsidiaries  asset, liability, income and expense accounts. Our foreign subsidiaries use the local
currency as their functional currency. The assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are
translated into U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange at the end of the relevant period. The income
and expense accounts are translated using the average rate of exchange during the relevant period.
Due to the long-term nature of our investment in our foreign operations, most of our intercompany
transactions and translation adjustments are reflected as a separate component in stockholders 
equity. Although we do not regularly incur gains or losses from specific foreign currency
transactions and do not believe that these amounts would be material, these gains and losses would
be reflected in our consolidated statement of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we
did not have any forwards, options or other derivative contracts in force. We do not consider our
existing foreign currency translation exposure to be material.

Interest Rate Risk 

We have total interest-bearing debt of approximately $45.3 million before discounts. The
components of this amount have fixed rates of interest and therefore, we do not have exposure to
the fluctuation of market interest rates.

Any future borrowings will be exposed to market rate risk. We periodically review our interest
rate exposure, if any, on our long-term debt and, as market conditions warrant, we may enter into
an interest rate cap or swap agreements in order to manage this exposure. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, we did not have any agreements in force. See Note 11 in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

- 38 -

Table of Contents   

Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 

All other schedules are omitted because of the absence of conditions under which they are
required or because the information is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto.

- 39 -

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Progressive Gaming International Corporation 
Las Vegas, Nevada

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Progressive Gaming
International Corporation (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the related
consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), stockholders  equity and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Progressive Gaming International Corporation as of December 31,
2005 and 2004, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated March 28, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management s assessment of
internal controls over financial reporting and an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of internal
controls over financial reporting because of the existence of a material weakness.

/s/ BDO Seidman, LLP

Los Angeles, California 
March 28, 2006

- 40 -

Table of Contents   

PROGRESSIVE GAMING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

- 41 -

Table of Contents   

PROGRESSIVE GAMING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

- 42 -

Table of Contents   

PROGRESSIVE GAMING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

- 43 -

Table of Contents   

PROGRESSIVE GAMING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY (DEFICIT) 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

- 44 -

Table of Contents   

PROGRESSIVE GAMING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

- 45 -

Table of Contents   

PROGRESSIVE GAMING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Continued) 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

- 46 -

Table of Contents   

Certain items reported in the prior year have been reclassified to follow the Company s current
year s reporting practice. Additionally, all intercompany activity has been eliminated.

Amounts disclosed in the accompanying footnote tables are shown in thousands while amounts
included in text are disclosed in actual amounts.

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Description of Business: 

Progressive
Gaming International Corporation (referred throughout these notes, together with its
subsidiaries as  Progressive  or  the Company ) was incorporated in May 1986 in Nevada. Progressive
develops, acquires, and markets (i) proprietary branded slot machine and table games, including the
Caribbean Stud    table game, (ii) electronic player tracking, game monitoring/accounting and
progressive jackpot and mystery systems for slot and table game operations. The Company s current
facilities are in North America, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Macau, Estonia, and
Australia. The Company s customers include casinos, other gaming suppliers, operators of wide-area
gaming networks and lottery authorities. Progressive s gaming products are found in almost every
major gaming jurisdiction worldwide.

The Company s worldwide operations are concentrated in two principal business segments: slot
and table games, and systems.

Slot and Table games.   The Company established its slot and table game business unit in 1993 to
develop, acquire, and distribute proprietary games, and these have become increasingly important to
the Company s business. The Company owns or licenses the rights to several categories of
proprietary games, which it places in casinos under lease arrangements. These leases provide for
license fees, fixed rental payments or a participation in the game s operating results.

Systems.   The Company also sells or leases software and electronic components for player
tracking and slot machine and table game monitoring/accounting systems along with progressive
jackpot and mystery systems to casino operators and governmental agencies.

Interior Signage.   In connection with its focus on games content and technology, the Company sold
its interior sign division through a private buy-out of the division s employees during 2005.

Acquisitions / Divestitures 

In December 2004, the Company entered into two strategic transactions to enhance its table
games and table systems products. First, the Company agreed to acquire the table games management
system, PitTrak   , including its existing customer base from Hotel Systems Pty, Ltd. of Sydney,
Australia. PitTrak    has a similar functionality as the Company s TableLink    product and provided
the Company with an existing installed base of over 400 tables and access to sell its management
solutions worldwide. The purchase of PitTrak    was completed in January 2005. The Company also
purchased patents related to player card image based recognition (IBR) and licensed the exclusive
rights to develop and distribute an IBR card recognition shoe. These transactions were completed in
January 2005.

In connection with its focus on games content and technology the Company sold its interior sign
division during 2005. The newly formed entity retained the Mikohn brand. Accordingly, the Company
filed fictitious name filings in all jurisdictions in which it does business to allow it to do
business as Progressive Gaming International Corporation effective January 2005. In addition, the
Company changed its NASDAQ ticker symbol to PGIC, effective
January 5, 2005. The Company changed its
legal name to Progressive Gaming International Corporation in March, 2006. The Company retained a
minority interest in the sign business and as a result did not present the reporting unit as a
discontinued operation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ( SFAS ) 144
 Long Lived Assets and Assets to be Disposed Of .

On October 7, 2005, the Company completed its acquisition of VirtGame Corp. (VirtGame), a
provider of open architecture gaming software primarily focused on the delivery of a central-server
based slot games and centrally managed sports betting. The Company will issue approximately 1.8
million shares of its common stock for all of the outstanding common stock, preferred stock,
warrants and options of VirtGame. The Company also provided VirtGame with a secured credit facility
of $2.5 million to bridge their operations until the acquisition was complete. At December 31,
2004, the Company had advanced $0.3 million to VirtGame under this credit facility.

On
November 28, 2005, the Company acquired EndX Group, Ltd.
( EndX ), a global gaming management systems software
company headquartered in the United Kingdom, for approximately $29.2 million in cash, including
transaction costs. EndX had been one of the Company s key strategic partners for over three years.
The EndX Intelligence product suite is currently installed in over 175 gaming centers in
approximately 20 countries worldwide, including centers operated by the three major gaming
operators located in the United Kingdom. The EndX product has been integrated as a part of
CasinoLink    Enterprise Edition. The modules of EndX include cage and cash management, player
marketing, table games accounting, and surveillance and alerts monitoring. In addition, we and EndX
previously created a version of TableLink    for the international market. Significant North American
multi-site installations that have been completed or are in the process of being installed include
17 sites for the British Columbia Lottery Corporation and four sites for the Saskatchewan Indian
Gaming Authority.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies: 

Principles of Consolidation.   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts for the
Company and all of its majority-owned subsidiaries and are maintained in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. All material intercompany balances
and transactions have been eliminated.

Cash and Cash Equivalents.   Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, demand deposits, and
short-term investments with original maturities of less than ninety (90) days. The Company places
its cash and temporary investments with high quality institutions. At December 31, 2005, the
Company had deposits with high quality institutions in excess of FDIC insured limits by
approximately $12.2 million. The Company performs periodic evaluations of the relative credit
standing of these financial institutions.

Fair Values of Financial Instruments.   In accordance with reporting and disclosure requirements
of the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 107   Disclosures about Fair Values
of Financial Instruments, the Company calculates the fair value of financial instruments and
includes this information in the Company s Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements when the fair
value is different than the book value of those financial instruments. When fair value is equal to
book value, no disclosure is made. Fair value is determined using quoted market prices whenever
available. When quoted market prices are not available, the Company uses alternative valuation
techniques such as calculating the present value of estimated future cash flows utilizing discount
rates commensurate with the risks involved.

Receivables and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.   The Company regularly evaluates the
collectibility of its trade receivable balances based on a combination of factors. When a
customer s account becomes past due, dialogue is initiated with the customer to determine the
cause. If it is determined that the customer will be unable

- 47 -

Table of Contents   

to meet its financial obligation to the Company, such as in the case of a bankruptcy filing,
deterioration in the customer s operating results or financial position or other material events
impacting their business, a specific reserve is recorded for bad debt to reduce the related
receivable to the amount the Company expects to recover given all information presently available.
The Company also records reserves for bad debt for all other customers based on certain other
factors including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection
experience with individual customers. If circumstances related to specific customers change, the
Company s estimates of the recoverability of receivables could materially change.

Inventories.   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined using the first-in,
first-out method) or market.

Long-Lived Assets.   Property and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated by the
straight-line method over the useful lives of the assets, which range from 3 to 15 years. Costs of
major improvements are capitalized; costs of normal repairs and maintenance are charged to expense
as incurred. Management requires long-lived assets that are held and used by the Company to be
reviewed for impairment quarterly or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable from related future undiscounted cash flows.

During 2003, the Company had determined that the useful life of its existing slot machines
should be accelerated to fully depreciate by the end of 2004 as these assets were expected to be
phased out and replaced by a different hardware platform. As of September 2004, the Company had not
replaced its slot machine hardware platform and has subsequently invested in the refurbishment of
these assets to be compliant with current industry standards and enhance their productivity.
Management has determined that the useful life of these refurbished slot machines should be five
years.

Patents and Trademarks.   The Company capitalizes the cost of registering and defending patents
and trademarks. These costs are amortized over the useful life of the patent or trademark.

Intangible Assets.   Intangible assets consist of patent and trademark rights, goodwill,
intellectual property rights, covenants not to compete, software costs, license fees and perpetual
license. They are recorded at cost and are amortized, except goodwill and perpetual license, on a
straight-line basis based on the period of time the asset is expected to contribute directly or
indirectly to future cash flows, which range from 5 to 40 years.

The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 142,  Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets  effective January 1, 2002. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and indefinite
life intangible assets, such as the Company s perpetual license, are no longer amortized but are
subject to periodic impairment tests. Other intangible assets with finite lives, such as patents,
software development costs, trademark and proprietary property rights and license and non-compete
agreements will continue to be amortized over their useful lives. Management performs impairment
reviews annually or whenever events or circumstances occur that would indicate the assets may be
impaired.

Deferred Revenues and License Fees.   Deferred revenues consist primarily of arrangements for
which revenues will be recognized in future periods.

Deposits and Product Sales Recognition.   Deposit liabilities represent
payments and payment obligations collected in
advance from customers pursuant to agreements under which the related sale of inventory has not
been completed.

Other Assets.   Other long term assets represent primarily prepaid content development and
software costs of $5.7 million and $0, unamortized loan fees related to the Senior Secured Notes
of approximately $1.2 million and $2.5 million, and security deposits for building and equipment
leases and other services of approximately $0.9 million and $0.6 million, at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively.

Commitments and Contingencies.   The Company is involved in various legal proceedings. It is the
Company s policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters if it is probable that a
liability has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable.

Foreign Currency Translation.   The Company accounts for currency translation in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52,  Foreign Currency Translation . Balance sheet
accounts are translated at the exchange rate in effect at each balance sheet date. Income statement
accounts are translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during the period. Translation
adjustments resulting from this process are charged or credited to other comprehensive income
(loss).

Nonmonetary Exchanges.   The Company adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 153  Exchanges of Non-Monetary Assets  (FASB 153) for the quarter ended September 30, 2005.
FASB 153 addresses the measurement for the exchange of non-monetary assets. FASB 153 requires that
exchanges be recorded at fair value provided that fair value is determinable and other qualifying
criteria are met as described in the standard. If fair value is not determinable or if the other
qualifying criteria are not met, the exchange is recorded at cost.

In September 2005, the Company entered
into separate transactions involving the licensing of
intellectual property and content. The first involved the license of the Company s legacy slot
operating system of which the Company had previously acquired a portion of the rights to, made
significant modifications and enhancements and obtained regulatory approval in numerous
jurisdictions. We also acquired unique intellectual property content primarily for use in the
Company s server-based wagering growth initiative from this party who licensed our operating
system. These transactions were accounted for as non-monetary exchanges in accordance with FASB 153
and have been recorded at cost in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

The second transaction involved obtaining
the rights to execute the license of the slot operating
system from the current owner. The current owner also purchased core intellectual property from
us. These transactions were recorded as non-monetary exchanges in accordance with FASB 153 and
recorded at fair value in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.

Revenue Recognition.   The Company recognizes revenue depending as follows:

Slot and Table Games.  The Company leases and sells proprietary slot and table games to casino
customers. Table game lease contracts are typically for a 36-month period with a 30-day
cancellation clause. The lease revenue is recognized on a monthly basis. Slot machine lease
contracts are either on revenue participation or a fixed-rental basis. Slot machine lease contracts
are typically for a month-to-month period with a 30-day cancellation clause. On a participation
basis, the Company earns a share of the revenue that the casino earns from these slot machines. On
a fixed-rental basis, the Company charges a fixed amount per slot machine per day. Revenues from
both types of lease arrangements are recognized on the accrual basis. The sales agreements for
proprietary table games and slot games consist of the sale of hardware and a perpetual license for
the proprietary intellectual property. Slot and
table game sales are executed by a signed contract or a customer purchase order. Revenues for these sales agreements are generally
recognized when the hardware and intellectual property is delivered to the customer.

Systems.  System sales consist of a suite of products (some of which are sold separately) that
enable gaming entities to track customer gaming activity, account for slot machine activity and
operate progressive jackpot systems. There are proprietary hardware and software components to the
systems. The Company accounts for system sales in accordance with Statement of Position 97- 2 -
Software Revenue Recognition ( SOP 97-2 ). System sales are considered multiple element
arrangements because they include hardware, software, installation, training and post-sale customer
support. System sales are evidenced by a signed contract. Follow-up spare parts and hardware-only
sales are evidenced by a purchase order. Revenue for system sales is recognized when: (i) there is
a signed contract with a fixed determinable price; (ii) collectibility of the sale is probable; and
(iii) the hardware and software have been delivered, installed, training has been completed and
acceptance has occurred.

- 48 -

Table of Contents   

Not all systems contracts require installation. Examples include sales of hardware only to (i)
previous customers that are expanding their systems, (ii) customers that have multiple locations
and do the installation themselves and require an additional software license and hardware and
(iii) customers purchasing spare parts.

Postcontract Customer Support.  Maintenance and support for all of the Company s products are
sold under agreements with established vendor-specific objective
evidence of fair value in accordance with the applicable accounting
literature.
These contracts are generally for a period of three years and revenue is recognized ratably over
the contract service period. Further training is also sold under agreements with established
vendor-specific objective evidence of price, which is based on daily rates and is recognized upon
delivery.

License Arrangements.  A significant portion of the Company s revenues are generated from the
license of intellectual property, software and game content. These licenses are sold on a
stand-alone basis or in multiple element arrangements. Revenue is recognized from these
transactions in accordance with the applicable accounting literature. Revenues under perpetual
license arrangements are generally recognized when the license is delivered. Revenues under fixed
term arrangements are generally recognized over the term of the arrangement or in a manner
consistent with the earnings process. For arrangements with multiple deliverables, revenue is
generally recognized as the elements are delivered so long as the undelivered elements have
established fair values as required in the applicable accounting literature.

Interior Signage.  Product sales are executed by a signed contract or customer purchase order.
Revenue is recognized when the completed product is delivered. If the agreement calls for the
Company to perform an installation after delivery, revenue related to the installation is
recognized when the installation has been completed and accepted by the customer.

Certain of the Company s revenue arrangements are considered nonmonetary exchanges under SFAS
No. 153,  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets . Such transactions are generally accounted for on the
cost basis of accounting. Under certain circumstances, transactions within the scope of this
pronouncement may be accounted for at fair value.

Stock-Based Compensation   .  The Company has stock-based employee and director compensation plans
which are described more fully in Note 16. The Company accounts for those plans in accordance with
APB No. 25,  Accounting For Stock Issued to Employees , and related Interpretations. The following
table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had applied the
fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation .
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company will be required to adopt the provisions of FAS 123R, which
requires that the fair value of stock options and similar awards be expensed.

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following assumptions used for the 2003 through 2005 grants:
risk-free interest rate at the date of grant which ranged from 3.125% to 7.78%; expected dividend
yield of 0.0%; expected life of the option from 1 to 6 years; and expected volatility between 50
and 60 percent.

Equity Instruments Issued to Consultants and Vendors.   The Company s accounting policy for
equity instruments issued to consultants and vendors in exchange for goods and services follows the
provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) 96-18- Accounting for Equity Instruments That are
Issued to Other Than Employees for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling, Goods or Services and
EITF 00-18   Accounting Recognition for Certain Transactions Involving Equity Instruments Granted
to Other Than Employees. The measurement date for the fair value of the equity instruments issued
is determined at the earlier of (i) the date at which a commitment for performance by the
consultant or vendor is reached or (ii) the date at which the consultant or vendor s performance is
complete. In the case of equity instruments issued to consultants, the fair value of the equity
instrument is recognized as a charge to the statement of operations over the term of the consulting
agreement. No expense was recognized in the current year as a result of equity instruments issued
to consultants. The number of uncancelled options issued to consultants at December 31, 2005, was
approximately 55,000.

In addition, the Company has received from Hasbro and Ripley licensing rights to intellectual
property, including rights to develop and market gaming devices and associated equipment under the
trademarks Monopoly   , Battleship   , Trivial Pursuit    and Ripley s   Believe It or Not!   . In exchange
for these license agreements, the Company granted Hasbro and Ripley warrants to purchase shares of
the Company s common stock for each license.

Related
Party Transactions.   On May 2, 2005, the Company sold substantially all
the assets of its sign and graphics
manufacturing business to a third party, retaining less than 1% equity interest. The Company and
Mikohn Signs and Graphics, LLC ( MSG ), signed a Transition Services Agreement and a Manufacturer s
Supply Agreement upon completion of the transaction.

The Transition Services Agreement had a term of
six months ending on November 2, 2005 that required
certain services to be performed by both parties during the separation. The Company was obligated
to provide administrative support, customer service and compliance assistance, whereas MSG was
obligated to provide electronic assembly and warehousing services during the term of the agreement.

Both parties entered into a three year
Manufacturer s Supply Agreement at the close of the
transaction, whereby MSG would purchase electronics from the Company at its standard OEM pricing.
For the period from May 2, 2005 to December 31, 2005, MSG purchased approximately $1.4 million in
electronic displays and related products from the Company.

In addition, under the Manufacturer s
Supply Agreement, MSG will provide the Company assembly,
testing, shipping and warehousing services at MSG s warehouse at hours worked plus any overhead
associated with providing these services, multiplied by 110%. On January 3, 2006, Progressive
terminated this portion of the agreement and is currently using a third party contract manufacturer
in Las Vegas, Nevada to provide these same services.

From time to time, the Company purchases signage
and sign related products from MSG in conjunction
with its progressive jackpot systems. During the period from May 2, 2005 through December 31,
2005, the Company purchased approximately $0.6 million from MSG.

Additionally, the Company billed MSG for reimbursable
expenses including rent, utilities,
administrative assistance and service costs for the period from May 2, 2005 through December 31,
2005 in the amount of approximately $0.3 million.

In June 2005, the Company entered into a worldwide
exclusive license with Magellan Technology Pty
Limited ( Magellan ). The Company licensed, on an exclusive basis, Magellan s rights to its RFID
reader, tag and related intellectual property for any gaming applications for $3.1 million. The
Company also intends to purchase a minority interest in Magellan.

David J. Thompson announced his resignation as chief
executive officer effective August 16, 2002
and, on March 21, 2003, Mr. Thompson announced his retirement as chairman of the board of
directors. According to the provisions of Mr. Thompson s chief executive officer severance
agreement, the Company recorded a charge of approximately $3.3 million, of which $1.5 million in
cash payments were made during the year ended December 31, 2002. In addition, approximately $0.3 million
of the chief executive officer severance agreement was applied by Mr. Thompson to repay
outstanding loans and advances owed to the Company. In March 2003, as part of his retirement
package, the Company paid the remaining amounts owed Mr. Thompson totaling approximately $1.4 million
and agreed to pay certain legal costs incurred by him in the approximate amount of $0.5 million.

Software Development Capitalization.   The Company previously capitalized costs related to the
development of certain software products that meet the criteria under SFAS No. 86   Accounting for
the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed. The Company did not
capitalize any costs during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003.

Income Taxes.   The Company accounts for income taxes under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income
Taxes, pursuant to which the Company records deferred income taxes for temporary differences that
are reported in different years for financial reporting and for income tax purposes. Such deferred
tax liabilities and assets are classified into current and non-current amounts based on the
classification of the related assets and liabilities.

- 49 -

Table of Contents   

Guarantees.   In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN No. 45, ( FIN 45 ),  Guarantor s Accounting
and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others,    an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and rescission of FIN 34   which
disclosures are effective for financial statements issued after December 15, 2002. While the
Company has various guarantees included in contracts in the normal course of business, primarily in
the form of indemnities, these guarantees would only result in immaterial increases in future
costs, but do not represent significant or contingent liabilities of the indebtedness of others.

Use of Estimates and Assumptions.   The Company s consolidated financial statements are prepared
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Certain of the
Company s accounting policies require that management apply significant estimates, judgments and
assumptions, that it believes are reasonable, in calculating the reported amounts of certain
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities. By their nature, these estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty.
Management s judgments are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, observance
of known industry trends, and information available from outside sources, as appropriate. On a
regular basis, management evaluates its estimates including those related to lives assigned to the
Company s assets, the determination of bad debts, inventory valuation reserves, asset impairment
and self-insurance reserves. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from
those estimates.

2. Acquisitions 

In 2005 the Company completed three business acquisitions. For each of the acquisitions, the
purchase price was allocated to the underlying assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon
their estimated fair values at the date of the acquisition. The estimated fair values were based
on independent appraisals, discounted cash flow analysis and estimates made by management. For
each transaction, the allocation of the purchase price will be completed within one year from the
date of the acquisition. To the extent that the purchase price exceeded the fair value of the net
identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired, such excess was allocated to goodwill. With
the adoption of SFAS No. 142 in 2002, the Company no longer amortizes goodwill or intangible assets
that are determined to have an indefinite life.

VirtGame 

On October 7, 2005, the Company completed it acquisition of VirtGame Corp. in a stock swap in which
the Company will issue approximately 1.3 million shares of common stock in exchange for all of the
outstanding shares of VirtGame s common and preferred stock, as well as approximately 0.5 million
shares issuable in the future upon the exercise of options and warrants. VirtGame is a provider of
open architecture gaming software primarily focused on the delivery of central server-based games
and centrally managed sports betting. The cost of the acquisition was approximately $21.2 million,
comprising approximately $19.3 million in common stock and $1.9 million in cash transaction costs.

The value of the common stock to be issued was determined based on the average market price of the
Company s common stock over a period of days surrounding the measurement date, in accordance with
the applicable accounting literature. The estimated fair value of the options and warrants issued
in the transaction were determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.

The following table summarizes the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to estimated fair
values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition:

Of the estimated $9.5 million in intangible assets, $9.3 million has been assigned to developed
core technology (six-year life) and $0.2 million has been assigned to customer lists (three-year
life).

The estimated $18.1 million of goodwill was assigned to the systems segment, and the Company
anticipates this goodwill will not be deductible for tax purposes. Pursuant to SFAS No 142,
goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to periodic review for impairment.

EndX 

On November 28, 2005, the Company acquired EndX, a global gaming management systems software
company headquartered in the United Kingdom, in a cash purchase transaction. The cost of the
acquisition was approximately $29.2 million including approximately $2.0 million in transaction
costs.

The following table summarizes the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to estimated fair
values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition:

- 50 -

Table of Contents   

Of the estimated $10.7 million in intangible assets, $9.2 million has been assigned to developed
core technology (six-year life) and $1.5 million has been assigned to customer lists (three-year
life).

The estimated $21.4 million of goodwill was assigned to the systems segment, and the Company
anticipates this goodwill will not be deductible for tax purposes. Pursuant to SFAS No 142,
goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to periodic review for impairment.

PitTrak 

On January 5, 2005, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of PitTrak   , a table games
management system. PitTrak    has similar functionality as TableLink    and provides the Company with
an existing installed base of over 400 tables and access to sell its management solutions
worldwide. The total purchase consideration of approximately $2.8 million was allocated to intangible assets, including goodwill of $2.6 million, software costs, patents,
trademarks, and customer lists totaling $0.4 million, and net current liabilities of $0.2 million.
The estimated goodwill of $2.6 million was assigned to the systems segment, and the Company
anticipates this goodwill will not be deductible for tax purposes. Pursuant to SFAS No 142,
goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to periodic review for impairment.

Pro Forma Results (unaudited) 

The results of operations of the entities acquired in the PitTrak, EndX and VirtGame acquisitions,
and the effects of related financing, have been included in our consolidated financial statements
since their respective January 5, 2005, October 7, 2005, and November 28, 2005, dates of
acquisition. The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information has been prepared assuming
that the following transactions had occurred at the beginning of 2005 and 2004:

The acquisition of PitTrak, as if it occurred on January 1, 2004 and 2005; 

The acquisition of EndX , as if it occurred on January 1, 2004 and 2005; 

The acquisition of VirtGame as if it occurred on
January 1, 2004 and 2005, and the related issuance of
approximately 1.2 million shares of common stock in exchange for
the outstanding common and preferred stock of VirtGame. 

3. Fair Values of Financial Instruments 

The following table presents the carrying amount and estimated fair market value ( FMV ) of
financial instruments at December 31, 2005:

The carrying values of notes / contract sales receivables and capital leases approximate fair
values. The estimated fair value of long-term debt was determined by using quoted market prices and
where quoted market prices are not available the fair value was calculated utilizing the present
value of estimated future cash flows and applying discount rates commensurate with the risks involved.

- 51 -

Table of Contents   

4. Receivables 

Accounts receivable at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consist of the following:

Contract and notes receivable at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consist of the following:

Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 are as follows:

5. Inventories 

Inventories at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consist of the following:

Changes in the reserve for obsolete inventory for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 are as follows:

- 52 -

Table of Contents   

6. Property and Equipment 

Property and equipment at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consist of the following:

Depreciation expense for property and equipment was approximately $2.6 million, $7.0 million
and $11.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively

7. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

Intangible assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consist of the following:

Goodwill at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consists of the following:

During 2005 the Company reclassified approximately $12.4 million of the perpetual license to
goodwill and adjusted the related deferred tax liability by approximately $6.9 million. For
purposes of comparability, a similar reclassification and adjustment is reflected in 2004 amounts.

The $27.1 million increase in the net carrying amount of intangible assets during the year ended
December 31, 2005, is due primarily to the acquisition of the intangible assets of EndX and
VirtGame, the acquisition of other intellectual property and game content, and capitalized patent
defense costs, partially offset by amortization expense and the adjustment of the perpetual license
described above.

The $41.9 million increase in the net carrying amount of goodwill during the year ended December
31, 2005, resulted from the acquisitions of EndX, VirtGame and PitTrak and the adjustment of the
perpetual license described above.

In accordance with SFAS No. 142, the Company performs an impairment analysis on all of its
long-lived and intangible assets on an annual basis and in certain other circumstances. For
indefinite lived assets including perpetual licenses and goodwill, an independent valuation is
performed annually to determine if any impairment has

- 53 -

Table of Contents   

occurred. Independent valuation tests as of
September 30, 2005 and 2004, did not indicate any impairment.

The net carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets as of December 31, 2005 by
segment consists of the following:

The net carrying value of goodwill ($57.2 million) as of December 31, 2005 is included in the
geographic operations of North America ($33.0 million), Europe ($21.4 million), and Australia /
Asia ($2.8 million).

Definite life intangible assets as of December 31, 2005, subject to amortization, are comprised
of the following:

Amortization expense for definite life intangible assets was approximately $2.3 million, $1.6
million and $2.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Annual
estimated amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years is as follows:

8. Accrued Liabilities 

Accrued liabilities at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consist of the following:

9. Net Gain on Disposition of Non-core Assets 

During the second quarter of 2005,
the Company completed the sale of its interior sign division, which
resulted in a gain of approximately $7.4 million, including
transaction costs. Additionally, the Company commenced the process of repositioning its existing
slot machine platform to focus on central-server based games and third party content development.
In connection with this repositioning, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement to sell
certain non-gaming slot hardware

- 54 -

Table of Contents   

related to its existing platform. In connection with the
repositioning, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $4.9 million equal to the amount by
which the carrying value exceeded fair value determined by the selling price.

10. Gain on Sale of Core Intellectual Property 

During the
third quarter of 2005, the Company completed a $2.5 million strategic licensing transaction by
selling the remaining rights to certain intellectual property through
a nonmonetary transaction, but
retained a non-exclusive right to use the intellectual property in
the Company s operations. This gain was based upon the fair
value of intellectual property sold in the exchange.

11. Debt and Capital Leases 

Long-term debt and capital leases at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consists of the following:

The following is the long-term debt maturity schedule:

In connection with the Company s December 2005 retirement of $20.0 million of its Senior
Secured Notes ( Notes ), the Company incurred a loss for the early retirement of debt, totaling
approximately $3.0 million. The loss includes a charge of approximately $1.2 million for the
premium paid on the repurchase of the Notes and non-cash charges to write-off approximately $1.8
million representing the unamortized bond issue costs and unamortized discount on the Notes
retired.

On November 9, 2005, the Company completed its sale of 8.3 million shares of its Common Stock at a
price of $9.25 per share. Proceeds from the transaction were used to fund strategic developments
and acquisitions, repurchase and retire $20.0 million of the Company s Notes, provide working
capital and for other general corporate purposes.

During 2003, the Company completed a private placement for approximately $45.0 million from selling
8.4 million shares of its Common Stock at a price of $5.34 per share and warrants to acquire an
additional 2.1 million shares at an exercise price of $5.875 per share. Proceeds from the
transaction were used to repurchase and retire $40.0 million of the Company s Notes and to pay the
associated fees and costs. This transaction will reduce annual interest expense by approximately
$4.0 million. The refinancing resulted in the incurrence of a $9.5 million loss on early retirement
of debt. The loss includes a charge of approximately $1.6 million for the premium paid on the
repurchase of the Notes and non-cash charges of approximately $2.0 million and approximately $1.6
million for the write-off of the unamortized bond issue costs and unamortized discount for the
Notes retired, respectively. In addition, the Company recorded a non-cash charge of approximately
$4.2 million to expense the warrants issued to extinguishing bondholders.

On May 14, 2002, the Company acquired 1,744,403 shares of Mikohn Australasia Pty Limited ( MGA )
from TAB Limited ( TAB ). These shares represented 8% of the issued and outstanding shares of MGA,
increasing the Company s ownership in this subsidiary from 92% to 100%. The purchase price for the
shares was approximately $1.1 million, with $0.8 million payable on closing and a promissory note
for approximately $0.3 million. The promissory note is due currently and bears interest at 5% per
annum due at maturity.

In February 2002, the Company completed the acquisition of a $17.5 million working capital
revolving line of credit facility (the  Facility ) with Foothill Capital Corporation ( Foothill ).
During 2005, this facility was assigned to a third party. Pursuant to its terms, this facility
expired on December 15, 2005.

On August 22, 2001, the Company completed the private placement of $105.0 million of its 11.875%
Senior Secured Notes ( Notes ) due 2008 and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 420,000 shares of
its common stock at a price of $7.70 per share. Interest payments are due on May 1 and November 1
until 2008. The Notes are secured by a security interest in certain of the Company s assets and
certain assets of its subsidiaries. On or after August 15, 2005, the Company will have the right to
redeem all or some of the Notes at a price that will decrease over time from 105.938% of the
principal amount in 2005 to 100.0% of the principal amount in 2007, plus accrued and unpaid
interest. The Notes include, among other covenants, a requirement that the Company maintain cash
and cash equivalents and unused availability equal to $5.0 million (as defined in the Indenture to
the Senior Secured Notes). The Company was in compliance with this covenant as of December 31,
2005 and 2004.

Each warrant issued entitles the holder to purchase four shares of the Company s common stock
at a price of $7.70. The warrants expire on August 15, 2008. The fair market value of the warrants
at date of issue was recorded as additional paid in capital.

- 55 -

Table of Contents   

12. Commitments and Contingencies 

The Company leases certain of its facilities and equipment under various agreements for periods
through the year 2011. The following schedule shows the future minimum rental payments required
under these operating leases, which have initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess
of one year as of December 31, 2005:

Rent
expense, net of sublease rentals, was $2.4 million, $3.9 million and $8.6 million for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Other Commitments and Contingencies 

A lease agreement for a building in Las Vegas, Nevada was terminated during 2005 and a $1.0 million
letter of credit securing rent payments was released from escrow.

In August 2004, the Company signed a five-year strategic partnership agreement with International
Game Technology ( IGT ) to license segments of its patent portfolio of technology and to develop
video slot games based on Progressive content. The new games will be developed on IGT s game
platform and distributed by Progressive. IGT also licensed aspects of its intellectual property to
the Company for its games as well as for certain joint development. Under this agreement, the
Company is committed to purchase from IGT a minimum of 600 slot machines with the Company s game
content ported on them over the life of the agreement. The Company will be required to pay for the
slot machines through a daily fee arrangement whereby IGT will receive an amount equal to 25% of
the Company s gross revenue derived from the slot machines, with a minimum of $12.50 per day per
machine, as defined in the agreement.

Legal Matters 

The Company was sued by Derek Webb and related plaintiffs in the U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Mississippi, Jackson Division, in a case filed on December 27, 2002. The plaintiffs
allege state law interference with business relations claims and federal antitrust violations and
contend that the Company illegally restrained trade and attempted to monopolize the proprietary
table game market in the United States. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages, penalties and attorneys 
fees in excess of several million dollars, and injunctive relief. There is no trial date presently
set.

The Company filed suit against Charles H. McCrea, Jr. on March 13, 2003 in State District Court,
Clark County, Nevada to cause Mr. McCrea to repay a loan he received from the Company that had come
due, including interest. McCrea counterclaimed on April 7, 2003, seeking damages in excess of
$1,000,000 and the reinstatement of 265,000 incentive stock options. A portion of this matter
proceeded to arbitration in 2006, and the Company is awaiting a decision from the arbitrator on the
matter. Another portion of this matter proceeded to a jury trial which concluded on March 28, 2006.
In this jury trial, the Company was awarded the payment of a loan by McCrea of approximately
$176,000, and Mr. McCrea was awarded a non punitive judgment of approximately $750,000. The Company does not
expect to incur any material costs for the net effect of this outcome as its insurance policies are
believed to be sufficient to cover the expense.

The Company is currently in a dispute with Hasbro, Inc. that was filed in the U.S. District Court
in Rhode Island centering primarily around the calculation of royalty payments from 1999-2002 on
the sale and license of certain of the Company s branded slot machines. Hasbro is seeking monetary
damages, which could be in excess of several million dollars. A substantial portion of these payments have been
previously audited by Hasbro representatives without a material dispute.

The Company received a complaint from Olaf Vancura, an employee, on July 18, 2005, alleging various
claims associated with allegations of breach of employment agreement. A claim for the return of
patents assigned to the Company has also been made. Under the Company s agreement with Mr.
Vancura, the matter is required to be handled through binding arbitration. Arbitration has been
set for October 30, 2006.

Commencing on November 28, 2005, four similar purported class action complaints were filed in the
United States District Court for the District of Nevada naming the Company and two of its officers
as defendants, and seeking unspecified money damages under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The complaints all alleged that during a  class period 
beginning in early 2005 and ending on October 19, 2005, the defendants misled the Company s
investors concerning the prospective application of SFAS 153 to the Company s financial statements
for the third quarter of 2005. The complaints have been consolidated into a single action, and a
consolidated amended complaint is due to be filed in April 2006. No discovery has been conducted
and no trial date has been set.

In December 2005, Interactive Systems Worldwide Inc. ( ISWI ) filed an action against the Company
in the Federal District Court for New Jersey, alleging that the Company s  Rapid Bet Live  and
 Prime Line  products infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 5,573,244 and 5,842,921. In March 2006, the
Federal District Court for New Jersey
transferred this action to the Federal District Court for Nevada.

The Company is involved in other routine litigation, including bankruptcies of debtors, collection
efforts, disputes with former employees and other matters in the ordinary course of business
operations.

- 56 -

Table of Contents   

13. Income Taxes 

Income from continuing operations before tax consisted of the following:

The (provision) benefit for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
consist of:

The (provision) / benefit for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
differs from the amount computed at the federal income tax statutory rate as a result of the
following:

- 57 -

Table of Contents   

The components of the net deferred tax liability at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consist of the
following:

Changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003 were as follows:

At December 31, 2005, the Company had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
$111.8 million, which will begin to expire after the year ended December 31, 2018. The Company also
had General Business and AMT tax credit carryforwards of approximately $1.6 million and $0.3
million, respectively. At December 31, 2005, a valuation allowance was recorded to reduce the
deferred tax asset because the management believes that the recognition of the tax benefit could
not be assured. The Company acquired $6.9 million of net operating
loss carryforwards from the acquisition of VirtGame. A full valuation
allowance was provided on these net operating losses. The future
utilization of these net operating losses will reduce the goodwill
recorded in the VirtGame acquisition. Under Federal Tax Law IRC Section 382, certain significant changes in ownership
that the Company is currently undertaking may restrict the future utilization of these tax loss
carryforwards.

The Company has not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that it has declared
as indefinitely reinvested offshore. The amount of earnings designated as indefinitely reinvested
offshore is based upon the actual deployment of such earnings in offshore assets and management s
expectations of the future cash needs of the Company s U.S. and
foreign entities.  As of December 31, 2005, cumulative foreign
earnings declared as indefinitely reinvested offshore is approximately
$0.5 million

As discussed in Note 7, pursuant to a review by the PCAOB of the Company s external auditors,
during 2005 the Company reclassified a portion of the perpetual license to goodwill and has
decreased the related deferred tax liability by $6.9 million accordingly. For purposes of comparability, a similar
reclassification and adjustment is reflected in 2004 amounts.

- 58 -

Table of Contents   

14. Earnings Per Share 

The following table provides a reconciliation of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share
for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

Dilutive stock options and warrants of approximately 2.4 million and 0.2 million for the years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2003, respectively, have not been included in the computation of
diluted loss per share as their effect would be antidilutive.

15. Benefit Plans 

The Company adopted a savings plan (the  401(k) Plan ) qualified under Section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The 401(k) Plan covers substantially all employees who
are not covered by a collective bargaining unit. The Company s matching contributions for 2005,
2004 and 2003 were approximately $0.2 million, $0.2 million and $0.1 million, respectively.

16. Stock-Based Compensation Plans 

In 2005, the Company adopted the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, which provides for the grant of
incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock bonus awards,
stock purchase awards, stock unit awards and other stock awards to the Company s employees,
directors and consultants. The aggregate number of shares of the Company s common stock that may
be issued under the plan is 709,397, subject to certain increases from time to time as set forth in
the plan. This plan is intended as the successor to the Stock Option Plan, Employee Stock
Incentive Plan, and New Hire Equity Incentive Plan. Options issued under the plan are generally
granted at the fair market value on the date of grant, become exercisable at the rate of
1/48 th  per month, and have a term of seven years.

In 2005, the Company s stockholders approved an amendment to the Director Stock Option Plan, to
increase by 200,000 the aggregate number of shares of the Company s common stock authorized for
issuance under this plan.

In 1993, the Company adopted, and in 1996, 1997, 1999, 2003 and 2004 amended, (i) a Stock Option
Plan under which non-qualified and incentive stock options (as defined by the Internal Revenue
Code) to purchase up to 4.0 million shares of the Company s Common Stock which may be issued to
officers, directors (other than non-employee directors), employees, consultants, advisers,
independent contractors and agents and (ii) a Director Plan under which stock options to purchase
up to 0.5 million shares of the Company s Common Stock which may be issued only to non-employee
directors. Generally, options have been granted at the fair market value on the date of grant and
typically become exercisable at the rate of 20% of the options granted on each of the first through
the fifth anniversaries of the date of the grant. Furthermore, options are normally granted with a
term of ten years.

The Company accounts for these plans in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25
- - Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, under which no compensation cost has been recognized
for stock options issued at fair market value, and compensation cost equal to the fair market value
of restricted stock grants is recognized over the service period of the grant. Effective January
1, 2006, the Company will be required to adopt the provisions of FAS 123R, which requires that the
fair value of stock options and similar awards be expensed.

- 59 -

Table of Contents   

A summary of the status of the Company s stock option plans at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
and changes during the years then ended is presented in the table below:

The following table summarizes information concerning options outstanding and options
exercisable as of December 31, 2005:

(Amounts in thousands except per option amounts)  

Under these plans the Company also grants employees restricted stock with vesting terms of
three to 10 years based on service conditions and market price targets. Restricted stock grants of
206,500 shares, 200,000 shares, and 225,000 shares with aggregate fair values of $1.6 million, $2.7
million, and $2.3 million, respectively, were made during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003.

In connection with the acquisition of VirtGame, the Company assumed options to purchase 193,913
shares of the Company s common stock. These options have a weighted average remaining contractual
life of 3.1 years and a weighted average exercise price of $15.32. All of these options are
outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2005.

Along with the above-discussed stock option plans, the Company may from time to time grant stock
warrants to various licensors as well as other individuals with

- 60 -

Table of Contents   

whom the Company does business. From 1998 to 2000, the Company entered into various licensing
agreements with Hasbro, Inc. and Hasbro International, Inc. (together,  Hasbro ) which granted the
Company rights to intellectual property, including rights to develop and market gaming devices and
associated equipment under the trademarks Battleship   , Clue    and Trivial Pursuit   . In exchange for
these license agreements, the Company granted Hasbro warrants to purchase up to 125,000 shares of
the Company s common stock for each license at an average exercise price of $6.13 per share.
312,500 of these warrants were exercised during 2005, and as of December 31, 2005, 312,500 of these
warrants remain outstanding and exercisable. In addition, the Company entered into a licensing
agreement with Ripley Entertainment which granted the Company rights to intellectual property,
including rights to develop and market gaming devices and associated equipment under the trademark
for Ripley s Believe It    or Not!   , in exchange for which the Company granted Ripley s Entertainment
warrants to purchase up to 35,000 shares of the Company s common stock at an exercise price of
$6.75 per share. No warrants were granted during the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003.

A summary of the status of the Company s warrants previously issued to vendors at December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 and changes during the years then ended is presented in the table below:

17. Concentrations of Credit Risk 

The financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk
are primarily accounts and contracts receivable. The Company performs credit evaluations of its
customers, and typically requires advance deposits of approximately 50%.

At December 31, 2005, net accounts and contracts receivable by region, as a percentage of total
receivables, were as follows:

- 61 -

Table of Contents   

18. Guarantor Financial Statements 

The Company s domestic subsidiaries are 100% owned and have provided full and unconditional
guarantees on a joint and several basis on the payment of 11.875% Senior Secured Notes due 2008.
The financial statements for the guarantor subsidiaries follow:

CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS 

- 62 -

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS 

- 63 -

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

- 64 -

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

- 65 -

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 

- 66 -

Table of Contents   

CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 

- 67 -

Table of Contents   

19. Segment Reporting 

The Company s business consists of two reportable segments: (i) slot and table games, and (ii)
systems. The slot and table games business segment includes the development, licensing and
distribution of proprietary slot and table games. Revenues are derived from leases, revenue sharing
arrangements, royalty and license fee arrangements with casinos and gaming suppliers. The systems
business segment sells or leases electronic player tracking and slot machine and table game
monitoring systems and electronic components used in progressive jackpot systems, and gaming
machines. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1 -
Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. All inter-segment
transactions have been eliminated.

With respect to the current segments, the Company evaluates performance and allocates resources
based upon profit or loss from operations before income taxes. Certain operating expenses, which
are separately managed at the corporate level, are not allocated to the business segments. These
unallocated costs include primarily the costs associated with executive administration, finance,
human resources, legal, general marketing and information systems. The depreciation and
amortization expense of identifiable assets not allocated to the business segments are also
included in these costs.

During 2005, the Company re-aligned its reportable segments as a result of changes to its
operations. Prior to 2005, reportable segments included slot and table games, systems, and product
sales, which comprised interior signage and electronics. As a result of the segment realignment,
the Company s electronics business has been reclassified to the systems segment. Segment data for
2004 has been restated to conform to the current period presentation. Segment data for 2003 has not
been restated to conform to the current period presentation because it would be impracticable to do
so. Accordingly, the electronics business is included in the interior signage segment information
for 2003.

Business segment information for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 consists of:

- 68 -

Table of Contents   

The Company attributes revenue and expenses to a geographic area based on the location from
which the product was shipped or the service was performed. Geographic segment information for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 consists of:

- 69 -

Table of Contents   

20. Recently Issued Accounting Standards 

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 151,
 Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.  The amendment clarifies that abnormal
amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) should
be recognized as current-period charges and requires the allocation of fixed production overheads
to inventory based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The guidance is effective
for the Company s fiscal year beginning on January 1, 2006. Management believes that the adoption
of this amendment will not have a material impact on the Company s overall results of operations or
financial position.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No.
123R ), that focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee
services in share-based payment transactions. On April 14, 2005, the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( SEC ) announced the adoption of a rule that defers the required effective date of SFAS
123R. The SEC rule provides that SFAS 123R is now effective for registrants as of the beginning of
the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005, instead of at the beginning of the first
quarter after June 15, 2005 (as prescribed by SFAS No. 123R). Additionally, in March 2005, the SEC
issued SAB 107,  Share-Based Payment,  providing interpretive guidance on SFAS 123R valuation
methods, assumptions used in valuation models, and the interaction of SFAS 123R with existing SEC
guidance. SAB 107 also requires the classification of stock compensation expense to the same
financial statement line item as cash compensation, and therefore, will impact cost of lease and
royalties, cost of sales and service, related gross profits and margins, selling, general and
administrative expenses and research and development expenses. Beginning with the quarterly period
that begins January 1, 2006, the Company will be required to expense the fair value of employee
stock options and similar awards then outstanding or thereafter granted. As a public company, PGIC
is allowed to select from two alternative transition methods, each having different reporting
implications. While management has not yet completed its evaluation of this statement, the adoption
of this statement is expected to have a material negative impact on the Company s results of
operations. However, due to the  non-cash  nature of stock option expense, management
does not expect the adoption of this statement to have an impact on the Company s financial
position and cash flows.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 109-1, Application of SFAS No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities provided by
the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ( FSP No. 109-1 ). FSP No. 109-1 states that the qualified
production activities deduction should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with
SFAS No. 109. This statement was effective upon issuance. The adoption of this statement had no
material impact on the Company s results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

In December 2004, the FASB reached unanimous consensus on Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) 04-8,
 The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings Per Share.  EITF 04-8 requires
that the dilutive effect of outstanding contingent convertible notes shares be included in diluted
earnings per share calculation, regardless of whether the market price trigger or other contingent
conversion feature has been met. Since the Company currently has no outstanding contingent
convertible debt, the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s
overall results of operations or financial position.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections , a
replacement of Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 20 and SFAS No. 3. SFAS 154 changes
the requirement for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principles. SFAS 154
applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principles. It also applies to changes required by
an accounting pronouncement if the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions.
When a pronouncement includes specific transition provisions, those provisions should be followed.
The provisions of SFAS 154 will be effective for accounting changes made in fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2005. Management does not expect the adoption of this statement to have a
material impact on the Company s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

- 70 -

Table of Contents   

QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) 

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 

1.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. The Company maintains disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15(d)-15(e)) designed to
ensure that it is able to collect the information it is required to disclose in the reports it
files with the SEC, and to process, summarize and disclose this information within the time periods
specified in the rules of the SEC. These disclosure controls and procedures are designed and
maintained by or under the supervision of the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, as required by the rules of the SEC. The Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer are responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures. Based on their evaluation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of the
end of the period covered by this report, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers believe
that the disclosure controls and procedures were not effective, due to the material
weakness disclosed below.

Due to this material weakness, in preparing our financial statements for the year ended December
31, 2005, we performed additional analysis and other post-closing procedures related to our revenue
recognition documentation and classification for non-routine complex transactions to reasonably
assure that such financial statements were stated fairly in all material respects in accordance
with US generally accepted accounting principles.

2. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. During the year ended December 31, 2005,
there have been no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s financial
reporting.

3. Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management is responsible for evaluating, establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting for the Company. The Company s internal control system was designed to
provide reasonable assurance to the Company s management and Board of Directors regarding the
preparation and fair presentation of published consolidated financial statements in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Management recognizes its responsibility for establishing and maintaining a strong ethical climate
so that the Company s affairs are conducted according to the highest standards of personal and
corporate conduct.

The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that:

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the Company; 

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded properly
to allow for the preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and the Board of Directors; 

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s
assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial
statements; and 

Provide reasonable assurance as to the detection of fraud. 

Because of its inherent limitations, a system of internal control over financial reporting can
provide only reasonable assurance and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Further, because of
changing conditions, effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting may vary over time.
The Company s processes contain self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct
deficiencies as they are identified.

- 71 -

Table of Contents   

Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria for effective internal control described in
Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.

A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results
in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial
statements will not be prevented or detected. The following material weakness has been identified
as of December 31, 2005:

The Company had three significant non-routine complex transactions, whereby the Company did not
properly document and support its initial analysis of the terms and conditions of these agreements
to ensure proper revenue recognition and classification. Further analysis resulted in a deferral of
revenue for the transactions in the fourth quarter and filing an amendment of the Company s Form
10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005.

Based on its assessments, management concluded that the Company s internal control over financial
reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2005 due to the material weakness described above.

BDO Seidman LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the consolidated
financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, was engaged to attest to and
report on management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. Its report is included herein.

4. Management s Remediation Efforts. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, we have taken the following
steps to improve our internal control over documentation and classification of revenues related to
non-routine transactions.

Improved the documentation process for non-routine complex transactions 

Improved the procedures related to non-routine complex transactions to ensure proper
classification in the financial statements. 

- 72 -

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Progressive Gaming International Corporation:

We have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Progressive Gaming International Corporation and
Subsidiaries (the  Company ) did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2005, because of the effects on revenue recognition based on criteria
established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). The Company s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express and
opinion on management s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or
disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results
in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial
statements will not be prevented or detected. The following material weakness has been identified
and included in management s assessment:

The Company had three significant non-routine complex transactions, whereby the Company did not
properly document and support its initial analysis of the terms and conditions of these agreements
to ensure proper revenue recognition and classification. Further analysis resulted in a deferral of
revenue for the transactions in the fourth quarter and filing an amendment of the Company s Form
10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. This material weakness was considered in determining
the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the December 31, 2005
financial statements, and this report does not affect our report
dated March 28, 2006 on those
consolidated financial statements.

In our opinion, management s assessment that Progressive Gaming International Corporation did not
maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly
stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in Internal Control  
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Also, in our opinion, because of the effect of the material weakness described above on
the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, Progressive Gaming International
Corporation has not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2005, based on the criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

/s/ BDO Seidman, LLP

Los Angeles, California 
March 28, 2006

- 73 -

Table of Contents   

Item 9B. Other Information 

None.

PART III 

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Code of Ethics 

We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors and
employees (including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal
accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions), and have posted the
text of the policy on our website (www.progressivegaming.net). In addition, we intend to promptly disclose (i) the nature of any amendment
to the policy that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions and (ii) the
nature of any waiver, including an implicit waiver, from a provision of the policy that is granted
to one of these specified individuals, the name of such person who is granted the waiver and the
date of the waiver on our website in the future.

Item 11. Executive Compensation 

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 

Information relating to securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans
is set forth in  Item 5, Market for Registrant s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities  above in this Annual Report.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

Except as set forth above, the information required by Items 10 through 14 is set forth under
the captions  Election of Directors,   Management,   Executive Compensation,   Principal
Stockholders  and  Certain Transactions  in Progressive Gaming International Corporation s
definitive Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, which sections are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in full.

PART IV 

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a)(1) and (2) Financial Statements and Schedules 

The Financial Statements and Schedules filed as part of this report are listed in the Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8.

(3) Exhibits 

See the list in paragraph (b) below. Each management contract or compensatory plan or
arrangement required to be identified by this item is so designated in such list.

(b) Exhibits 

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description of Document  

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization, dated February
19, 2005, by and among the Company, Viking Acquisition Sub,
Inc., Viking Merger Subsidiary, LLC and VirtGame Corp.,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 23, 2005. 

2.2

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger and
Reorganization, dated July 29, 2005, by and among the Company,
Viking Acquisition Sub, Inc., Viking Merger Subsidiary, LLC and
VirtGame Corp., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the
Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 4, 2005. 

2.3

Asset Purchase Agreement, dated May 6, 2005, by and between the
Company and MSG Acquisition, LLC, now known as Mikohn Signs and
Graphics, LLC., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to
the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2005. 

2.4

Share Purchase Agreement for the sale and purchase of all the
issued share capital of EndX Group Limited, dated September 6,
2005, by and among the Company, Nicholas Boyes-Hunter and
others, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 9,
2005. 

3.1

Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Amendment No. 1 to the Company s 

- 74 -

Table of Contents   

- 75 -

Table of Contents   

* 
       
     Management contracts and compensation plans 

Confidential treatment has been granted for certain portions of this exhibit.
Omitted portions have been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. 

- 76 -

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

PROGRESSIVE GAMING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION  

March 31, 2006

by:

/s/ MICHAEL A. SICURO 

Michael A. Sicuro 

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial 

Officer, Secretary and Treasurer 

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes
and appoints Russel H. McMeekin and Michael A. Sicuro, and each of them, as his true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in
his name, place, and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all
intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/ RUSSEL H. MCMEEKIN.

Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)

March 31, 2006 

Russel H. McMeekin

/s/ MICHAEL A. SICURO

Executive Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer, Secretary and  
       
     March 31, 2006 

Michael A. Sicuro

Treasurer (Principal Financial Officer) 

/s/ HEATHER A. ROLLO

Vice President, Finance and Chief
Accounting Officer (Principal 
       
     March 31, 2006 

Heather A. Rollo

Accounting Officer) 

/s/ PETER G. BOYNTON

Chairman of the Board

March 31, 2006 

Peter G. Boynton

/s/ PAUL A. HARVEY

Director

March 31, 2006 

Major General Paul A. Harvey (Ret)

/s/ TERRANCE W. OLIVER

Director

March 31, 2006 

Terrance W. Oliver

/s/ RICK L. SMITH

Director

March 31, 2006 

Rick L. Smith

/s/ DOUGLAS M. TODOROFF

Director

March 31, 2006 

Douglas M. Todoroff

- 77 -

<EX-10.11>
 2
 a18352exv10w11.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.11

exv10w11 

Exhibit 10.11 

PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL

Dated
    July 2005

(1) Mikohn Gaming Corporation 

(2) Neil Crossan 

EXECUTIVE S SERVICE AGREEMENT 

1

THIS AGREEMENT  is made on ___1st__ July, 2005

BETWEEN: 

(2)  
       
      Neil Crossan  of   30 Lake Street, Oxford, Oxfordshire   ( the  Executive  ) 

RECITAL 

It is the intention of the parties that this document be executed as a deed.

1.  
       
      Interpretation  

1.1 
       
     In this Agreement, (except where the context otherwise requires) the words and expressions
set out below shall have the following meanings: 

(a) 
       
     the  Board  means the board of directors from time to time of the Company or a
duly authorised committee of it; 

(b) 
       
      Confidential Material  means any information relating to the Group or the
business, prospective business, technical processes, computer software (both source and
object code), Intellectual Property Rights or finances of any member of the Group, or
complications of two or more items of such information whether or not each individual
item is in itself confidential, including without limitation, price lists, lists of
customers and suppliers (both current and those who were customers or suppliers during
the past two years), which comes into the Executive s possession by virtue of the
Employment, and which the relevant member of the Group regards, or could reasonably be
expected to regard, as confidential, whether or not such information is reduced to a
tangible form or marked in writing as  confidential , and any and all information which
has been or may be derived or obtained from any such information; 

(c) 
       
     the  Employment  means the employment of the Executive pursuant to this
Agreement or, as the context requires, its duration; 

(d) 
       
     the  Group  means the Company, any subsidiary of the Company, any holding
company of the Company, any subsidiary of such holding company and any company
designated by the Board as an associated company from time to time; 

(e) 
       
      Intellectual Property Rights  means copyrights, patents, utility models, trade
marks, service marks, design rights (whether registered or unregistered), database
rights, semiconductor topography rights, proprietary information rights and all other
similar proprietary rights and applications for such rights as may exist anywhere in
the world; 

(f) 
       
      Inventions  means all inventions, improvements, modifications, processes,
formulae, models, prototypes and sketches, drawings, plans or specifications for them
or other matters which the Executive alone or with one or more others may make, devise
or discover during the Employment and which pertain or are actually or potentially
useful to the commercial or industrial activities from time to time of the Group or the
processes or machinery of the Group for providing the services or making the products
of the Group or which pertain to, result from or are suggested by 

2

any work which the Executive or any employee has done or may do during the
Employment for the Group; 

(g) 
       
      Recognised Investment Exchange  has the meaning given to it in Section 285 of
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000; and 

(h) 
       
      Termination Date  means the date on which the Employment terminates. 

1.3 
       
     In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires: 

(a) 
       
     references to Clauses are to clauses of this Agreement, as amended in
accordance with this Agreement; 

(b) 
       
     the Clause headings are for convenience only and shall not affect the
interpretation of this Agreement; 

(c) 
       
     the Recital constitutes an integral part of this Agreement; 

(d) 
       
     references to any legislation are reference to that legislation as amended,
replaced or re-enacted from time to time and any subordinate legislation made under it; 

(e) 
       
     words implying the singular include the plural and vice versa; 

(f) 
       
     words implying a gender include every gender; and 

(g) 
       
     references to a person include an individual, firm, company, corporation,
unincorporated body of people, or any agency of the above. 

2.  
       
      Appointment  

2.1 
       
     The Company will employ the Executive and the Executive will serve the Company as Executive
Vice President, International Division. 

3.1 
       
     Subject to Clauses 3.2, 15.1 and 16.1 the Employment commenced on 1st July 2005 and will
continue unless or until terminated by either party giving to the other not less than 30 days 
written notice, such notice to expire at any time. 

3.2 
       
     Notwithstanding Clause 3.1, the Company will be entitled at its sole discretion to make a
payment of basic salary to the Executive in lieu of notice and to deduct sums equivalent to
tax and national insurance from any such payment;  provided  that if the Company decides not to
make a payment to the Executive under this Clause, the Executive cannot enforce that payment
as a contractual debt nor as liquidated damages and his sole remedy will be a claim in
damages.     

3.4 
       
     During any period of notice, the Executive may be required by the Company, in its absolute
discretion, for up to twelve months not to attend at the Company s premises at any time and
not to perform any duties for the Company or to perform only such duties, specific projects or 

3

tasks as are assigned to him expressly by the Company, for such period and at such place or
places as the Company deems necessary;  provided , that the Executive will be entitled to
receive his basic salary during such period. For the avoidance of doubt, during any such
period the Executive will remain an employee of the Company and may not carry out any work
for any third party. 

3.5 
       
     The Company retains the right to suspend the Executive from the Employment on basic salary at
any time for a reasonable period to investigate any matter in which it reasonably believes the
Executive is implicated or involved (whether directly or indirectly). For the avoidance of
doubt, any decision to suspend will be made by the Chief Executive Officer. 

(a) 
       
     perform all the duties and exercise all the powers of his office and such other
functions within the Group (not being inconsistent with his position as Executive Vice
President, International Division, of the Company) as the Chief Executive Officer may
require to the best of his ability, giving the Company the full benefit of his
knowledge, expertise and technical skills, and he will comply with all lawful
directions given by or with the authority of the Board, and whenever required to do so,
will promptly give a full account to the Board or a person duly authorised by the
Board, of all matters entrusted to him; 

(b) 
       
     comply with all reasonable directions from time to time given to him by the
Chief Executive Officer and with rules and policies from time to time laid down by the
Company; 

(c) 
       
     whenever so required for the proper fulfilment of his duties, work without
further remuneration in excess of the normal hours of work of the Company; 

(d) 
       
     attend and work at any premises of the Group wherever situated, and travel and
work both in the United Kingdom and abroad, as may be required for the proper
fulfilment of his duties; and 

(e) 
       
     at the request of the Company, accept any other appointment with the Group
(whether such appointment is in addition to or in substitution for the appointment
specified in Clause 2) whether in the United Kingdom or abroad;  provided , that such
appointment does not render the terms of the Employment, taken as a whole, materially
less favourable to the Executive than those prevailing before such appointment. No
such change will be deemed to be a termination of the Employment. 

4.2 
       
     The Executive agrees that for the purposes of the Working Time Regulations 1998 (and any
amendment or re-enactment thereof) any legislative provisions imposing a maximum number of
average weekly working hours shall not apply to the Employment. The Executive may withdraw
consent by giving the Company not less than three months  notice in writing. 

4.3 
       
     The Executive agrees not to voluntarily assist any person in bringing or pursuing, or
preparing to bring or pursue, any claim or action of any kind against the Company, its
parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, directors, employees or agents save as required
by Order of a Court of competent jurisdiction. 

4.4 
       
     Before and after the Termination Date, the Executive agrees to reasonably cooperate with the
Company in connection with its actual or contemplated defence, prosecution, or investigation
of any claims or demands by third parties, or other matters, arising from events, acts, or 

4

failures to act that occurred during the time period in which the Executive is employed by
the Company. Such cooperation includes, without limitation, the Executive making himself
available upon reasonable notice, without Order of a Court of competent jurisdiction, for
interviews and truthful and accurate testimony, which could include depositions, trial
testimony and/or witness statements. The Company will reimburse the Executive for
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses he incurs in connection with any such cooperation
(excluding forgone wages, salary, or other compensation), and will reasonably accommodate
the Executive s scheduling needs. In addition, the Executive agrees to execute all
documents (if any) necessary to carry out the terms of this Clause 4.4. 

5.  
       
      Employment interests  

5.1 
       
     Subject to Clause 5.2, during the Employment the Executive will not, without the prior
consent of the Company be engaged or be concerned or undertake or be interested in (whether
directly or indirectly) any other business or occupation or become a director or employee or
agent or consultant or partner of any other person, firm or company (other than a company
within the Group). 

5.2 
       
     Notwithstanding Clause 5.1, the Executive may own beneficially any shares or securities
listed on a Recognised Investment Exchange which when aggregated with shares or securities
beneficially owned by his spouse and/or children, total not more three per cent of any single
class of shares or securities in any company. 

6.  
       
      Remuneration  

6.1 
       
     The Company will pay to the Executive during the Employment a basic salary at the rate of
  GBP 153,952   per annum (or at such higher rate as the Company may in its absolute discretion
from time to time decide) which will accrue from day to day and be payable by equal monthly
instalments in arrears on or before the last day of each calendar month. The Executive s basic
salary shall increase at a rate of no less than 5% per annum for the duration of the
Agreement. In addition to the foregoing, Executive shall be entitled to a payment of GBP
2,050 per month for the duration of the Agreement, which shall constitute a cost of living
adjustment ( COL ). 

6.2 
       
     At the sole and absolute discretion of the Company, the Executive may be eligible to receive
a bonus during the Employment. The amount of any bonus paid will be determined by the
Company s Compensation and Executive Committees. The payment of a bonus in respect of one
year will not create any right or entitlement to a bonus in respect of any subsequent
financial year. No bonus payment will be made if at the due payment date the Executive has
received or has given notice of the termination of the Employment or has ceased to be employed
by the Company. 

6.3 
       
     During the term of this Agreement, the Company will provide the Executive a family membership
at Spanish Trails Country Club subject to and in accordance with the rules of such membership
scheme. The Executive shall be responsible for payment of monthly dues and other charges
(except for the initial membership charge). 

6.4 
       
     At the sole and absolute discretion of the Company, and subject to approval of the Board, the
Executive may be eligible to receive options to purchase shares of the Company s common stock
subject to and in accordance with the rules of the Company s Stock Option Program from time to
time. 

6.5 
       
     The Executive authorises the Company to deduct from the Executive s salary sums from time to
time owing from the Executive to the Company or any other member of the Group. 

5

6.6 
       
     In addition to all other compensation, the Company shall pay to Employee a one time lump sum
of 30,000 Euros to assist Employee in his relocation. This sum shall be payable no later than
October 31, 2005. The parties acknowledge that all necessary taxes will be withheld form this
amount in ordinary course. 

7.1 
       
     The Company will reimburse to the Executive (against receipts or other appropriate evidence)
all expenses properly and reasonably incurred by him in the course of his duties under the
Employment, including but not limited to the reasonable, actual and documented costs of
relocation of Executive s personal belongings to the United Kingdom. 

7.2 
       
     If the Executive is provided with a credit or charge card by the Company, this must only be
used for expenses reasonably incurred by him in the course of performing his duties under the
Employment. 

8.1 
       
     Subject to the Company s car policy, and to the terms of that policy in force from time to
time, the Company will pay the Executive a car allowance of GBP 900 per month. The allowance
shall be payable by monthly payments in arrears subject to such deductions as are required by
law. 

9.  
       
      Sickness pay  

9.1 
       
     The Executive has no contractual right to pay in respect of absence due to sickness or injury
save for the Executive s entitlement to statutory sick pay ( SSP ) under the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 and any payment made by the Company during a period of
such absence in addition to SSP will be at the Company s sole discretion. Any payment made
under this Agreement in respect of a day of sickness will count towards the Executive s SSP
for that day and any sickness or other benefits obtained by the Executive under any social
security, national insurance or other legislation from time to time in force or any benefit
received by him as a result of contributions paid by the Company to any health insurance
scheme, in respect of a day of sickness will count towards payment to be made under this
Agreement in respect of that day. Monday to Friday (inclusive) in each week shall be
Qualifying Days for the purposes of the said Act. 

9.2 
       
     In respect of any absence from the Employment due to sickness or injury lasting up to 7 days,
the Executive will send to the Board, or to such person as it may nominate, a self certificate
in such form as the Company may reasonably require. In respect of any absence exceeding 7
days, he will send to the Board or to the Board s nominee, a statement of his disability
signed by a medical practitioner covering absence after the seventh day. 

9.3 
       
     If the Executive is absent from work due to sickness or injury which is caused by the fault
of another person, and as a consequence recovers from that person or another person any sum
representing compensation for loss of salary or other benefits under this Agreement, the
Executive will repay to the Company any money it has paid to him as salary and the value of
other benefits in respect of the same period of absence. 

9.4 
       
     Subject to the Executive s rights pursuant to the Access to Medical Reports Act 1998, the
Executive agrees to be examined at the Company s expense by a doctor nominated by the Company
if at any time the Company so requests and the Executive authorises such doctor to disclose
and to discuss with the Company and its advisers the results of such examinations. 

6

10.1 
       
     The Executive will be entitled, with full remuneration, to the usual public and statutory
holidays and a further 25 working days  holidays in each full holiday year, to be taken at
such times as will be agreed between the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive or, failing
agreement, as the Chief Executive Officer may determine. Holidays must be requested as far in
advance as is practicable and in any event not less than one week prior to the start of the
holiday. 

10.2 
       
     The Executive s holiday entitlement will be deemed to accrue from day to day and may not be
carried over from one holiday year to the next. No payment will be made to the Executive in
lieu of holiday accrued but not taken by him save on the termination of the Employment.
However, where the Executive is dismissed pursuant to Clause 15.1 any such payment will be
limited to that required by law. If on termination of the Employment, the Executive has
exceeded his accrued holiday entitlement, the appropriate deduction will be made from the
Executive s final salary payment. 

11.  
       
      Pensions and insurance  

11.1 
       
     The Company does not operate a pension scheme and the Executive is encouraged to make his own
pension arrangements. 

11.2 
       
     Notwithstanding the above, the Company will provide the Executive with access to a designated
stakeholder pension scheme as required by law. 

11.3 
       
     If the Executive decides to contribute to the designated stakeholder pension scheme the
Company will at his request arrange for his contributions to be deducted from his monthly
salary and paid direct to the designated stakeholder pension scheme. The Executive may vary,
cease or re-commence contributions although the Company reserves the right to restrict the
frequency of variation, cessation or recommencement of contributions. The Executive will be
provided with this information when he first makes contributions. 

11.4 
       
     The Company has not opted to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme and a
Contracting-out Certificate issued in accordance with the Pension Schemes Act 1993 is not in
force in respect of the Employment. 

11.5 
       
     During the Employment, the Executive will be entitled to participate at the Company s expense
in such private medical expenses and dental insurance schemes offered by the Company and as
the Executive elects to participate in, subject to the rules of the scheme from time to time
(and any replacement schemes provided by the Company) and subject to the Executive being
eligible to participate in or benefit from such scheme pursuant to its rules. 

11.6 
       
     The Executive agrees that the Company shall have no liability to the Executive for any act,
omission or default of any of the insurers, issuers or providers of any of the benefits
specified above or otherwise provided to the Executive during the Employment. The maintenance
of these benefits is a taxable benefit in the Executive s hands and will be disclosed to the
Inland Revenue. 

11.7 
       
     The Company will, to the maximum extent permitted by law, defend, indemnify and hold harmless
the Executive and the Executive s heirs, estate, executors and administrators against any
costs, losses, claims, suits, proceedings, damages or liabilities to which the Executive may
become subject which arise out of, are based upon or relate to the Executive s employment by
the Company (and any predecessor company to the Company), or the 

7

Executive s service as an officer or member of the Board of Directors of the Company (or any
predecessor company of the Company) or any affiliate, including without limitation
reimbursement for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Executive in
connection with investigation and defending against any such costs, losses, claims, suits,
proceedings, damages or liabilities. 

11.8 
       
     The Company may maintain directors and officers liability insurance in commercially
reasonable amounts (as reasonably determined by the Board) subject to and in accordance with
the rules of such scheme, and, in the event such insurance is obtained, the Executive shall be
covered under such insurance to the same extent as other senior management employees (and
directors, with respect to the Executive s role as a director, as may be applicable);
 provided , however, that the Company shall not be required to maintain such insurance coverage
unless the Board determines that it is obtainable at a reasonable cost. 

12.  
       
      Intellectual property rights  

12.1 
       
     The Executive will promptly disclose and deliver to the Company for the exclusive use and
benefit of the Group full details of any Inventions upon the making, devising or discovering
of the same during the Employment, irrespective of whether they were so made, devised or
discovered during normal working hours or using the facilities of the Company. The Executive
will, irrespective of the termination of the Employment, give all information and data in his
possession as to the exact mode of working, producing and using the same and will also at the
expense of the Company give all such explanations, demonstrations and instructions to the
Company as the Board may deem appropriate to enable the full and effectual working, production
or use of the same. 

12.2 
       
     The Executive will, without additional payment to him (except to the extent provided in
Section 40, Patents Act 1977 or any similar provision of applicable law), whether or not
during the continuance of the Employment, at the expense of the Company, promptly execute and
do all acts, matters, documents and things necessary to enable the Company or its nominee to
apply for and obtain any or all applicable Intellectual Property Rights in any or all
countries relating to any Inventions or other materials produced by the Executive during the
Employment. 

(a) 
       
     will do anything necessary to confirm vesting of title to any or all applicable
Intellectual Property Rights (except only to the extent that such Intellectual Property
Rights fail to vest in the Company) in any or all countries relating to any Inventions
or other materials produced by the Executive during the Employment in the Company or
its nominee absolutely; 

(b) 
       
     with full title guarantee hereby assigns (insofar as title to them does not
automatically vest in the Company as a consequence of the Employment) to the Company by
way of future assignment all copyrights arising in any original material (including
without limitation source code and object code for software) produced by the Executive
during the Employment, whether during the normal hours of work of the Company or
otherwise or at the premises or using the facilities of the Company or otherwise, being
the exclusive right to do and to authorise others to do any and all acts restricted by
the Copyright Designs and Patents Act 1988 in relation to such material in the United
Kingdom together with copyright in all other countries of the world (and/or any similar
rights in countries where such rights exist) for the whole term of such copyright
including any extensions or renewals thereof and including the right to sue for damages
and other remedies in respect of any infringements of the copyrights in 

8

such material or conversion of infringing copies of the material prior to the date
of this Agreement to hold unto the Company absolutely; and 

(c) 
       
     waives all moral rights arising from any such original material so far as the
Executive may lawfully do so in favour of the Company and for the avoidance of doubt
this waiver shall extend to the licensees and successors in title to the copyright in
the said material. 

12.4 
       
     Without prejudice to the generality of Clauses 12.2 and 12.3, the Executive hereby
irrevocably and by way of security appoints the Company as his attorney in his stead to do all
such things and execute all such documents as may be necessary for or incidental to grant to
the Company the full benefit of this Clause. 

12.5 
       
     The Executive will do nothing (whether by omission or commission) during the Employment or at
any times thereafter to affect or imperil the validity of any Intellectual Property Rights
obtained, applied for or to be applied for by the Company or its nominee. In particular
without limitation the Executive shall not disclose the subject matter of any Inventions which
may be patentable before the Company has had the opportunity to apply for any patent or
patents. The Executive will at the direction and expense of the Company promptly render all
assistance within his power to obtain and maintain such Intellectual Property Rights or any
application for any extension of them. 

12.6 
       
     Nothing in this Agreement obliges any member of the Group to seek patent or other protection
for any Invention nor to exploit any Invention. 

13.1 
       
     The Executive must not during the Employment (other than in the proper performance of his
duties) or at any time thereafter use for his own purposes or disclose to any third party any
Confidential Material and must use his best endeavours to prevent such disclosure, except upon
written approval of a duly authorised officer of the Company. 

13.2 
       
     All Confidential Material and all other documents, papers and property which may have been
made or prepared by, or at the request of, the Executive or have come into his possession or
under his control in the course of the Employment or which relate in any way to any member or
members of the Group or its or their the business, prospective business or affairs or those of
any customer, supplier, agent, distributor or sub-contractor of any member of the Group are,
as between the relevant member of the Group and the Executive, deemed to be the property of
the relevant member of the Group. The Executive must deliver up all such documents and other
property (including but not limited to the Company s security badge and keys provided to the
Executive), including all copies, to the Company immediately upon the termination of the
Employment (or at any earlier time on demand). 

13.3 
       
     The Executive must immediately inform the Company if he becomes aware of the possession, use
or knowledge of any of the Confidential Material by any person not authorised to possess, use
or have knowledge of the Confidential Material, whether during the Employment or thereafter
and must at the Board s request provide such reasonable assistance as is required to deal with
such event. 

13.4 
       
     The provisions of this Clause do not apply to any Confidential Material which: 

(a) 
       
     is in or enters the public domain other than by breach of the Agreement; or 

(b) 
       
     is obtained from a third party who is lawfully authorised to disclose such
information; or 

9

(c) 
       
     is authorised for release by the prior written consent of the Chief Executive
Officer; or 

(d) 
       
     is a protected disclosure as defined by the Public Interest Disclosure Act
1998. 

13.5 
       
     Nothing in this Clause will prevent the Executive from disclosing Confidential Material where
it is required to be disclosed by judicial, administrative, governmental or regulatory process
in connection with any action, suit, proceeding or claim or otherwise by applicable law. 

13.6 
       
     Failure by the Executive to comply with this Clause shall constitute a breach of this
Agreement entitling the Company to terminate it immediately. 

14.1 
       
     The Executive hereby agrees that the Company may hold computer records and personnel files
relating to the Executive. These may include, but are not limited to, the Executive s
employment application, references, bank details, performance appraisals, holiday and sickness
records, salary reviews and remuneration details and other records, (which may, where
necessary, include sensitive data relating to the Executive s health, and data held for ethnic
monitoring purposes). The Company requires such personal data for personnel administration
and management purposes and to comply with its obligations regarding the keeping of
employee/worker records. The Executive s right of access to this data is as prescribed by
law. 

14.2 
       
     The Executive hereby agrees that the Company may process personal data relating to him for
personnel administration and management purposes, and may, when necessary for those purposes,
make such data available to its advisors, to parties providing products and/or services to the
Company (such as IT systems suppliers, pension, benefits and payroll administrators), to
regulatory authorities (including the Inland Revenue) and as required by law. Further, the
Executive hereby agrees that the Company may transfer such data to and from any member of the
Group including any member of the Group located outside the European Economic Area. 

15.  
       
      Termination for breach  

15.1 
       
     Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 3.1 and 16.1, the Company may terminate the
Employment by written notice having immediate effect if the Executive: 

(a) 
       
     is guilty of serious dishonesty or of gross misconduct or incompetence or
wilful neglect of duty or commits any breach of this Agreement, other than a breach
which is capable of remedy and is remedied immediately by the Executive, at the
Company s request, to the complete satisfaction of the Company; or 

(b) 
       
     is convicted of a criminal offence, other than an offence carrying a fixed
penalty under the Road Traffic Acts; or 

(c) 
       
     is unable through sickness or injury for twelve consecutive weeks or an
aggregate of fifteen weeks in any fifty-two consecutive weeks to perform the duties of
the Employment; or 

(d) 
       
     after receiving written warning from the Company in respect of the poor
performance of his duties, the Executive continues, in the opinion of the Chief
Executive Officer, to perform his duties to an unsatisfactory standard; or 

10

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.12>
 3
 a18352exv10w12.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.12

exv10w12 

Exhibit 10.12 

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ( AGREEMENT ) is made and entered into as of June 6, 2005,
( Effective Date ) by and between MIKOHN GAMING CORPORATION dba Progressive Gaming International
Corporation, a Nevada corporation ( MIKOHN  or the  Company ), and Thomas M. Galanty ( Employee ).

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, MIKOHN and Employee deem it to be in their respective best interests to enter into an
agreement providing for MIKOHN s employment of Employee pursuant to the terms herein stated.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual promises and agreements
contained herein, it is hereby agreed as follows:

1.   Term   .  MIKOHN hereby employs and Employee hereby accepts employment with MIKOHN for
a period of three (3) years beginning on June 20, 2005 ( Term ). Unless MIKOHN or Employee gives
written notice that this Agreement shall be allowed to expire and the employment relationship
thereby terminated (a  Non-renewal Notice ) at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of
the Term or any Renewal Term (as defined herein), this Agreement shall continue in effect for
additional terms of (1) one year each ( Renewal Term ).

2.   Duties of Employee   .  Employee s position with MIKOHN will be Executive Vice
President and Chief Technology Officer. Employee shall do and perform all services, acts, or
things reasonably necessary or advisable to accomplish the objectives and complete the tasks
assigned to Employee by MIKOHN s Chief Executive Officer. MIKOHN may assign Employee to another
position commensurate with Employee s training and experience so long as the compensation paid to
Employee is equal to or greater than the compensation provided in this Agreement and the position
and related title, reporting level and responsibilities are of equal or greater nature, status and
prestige.

3.   Devotion of Time to MIKOHN s Business   .  Employee shall be a full-time employee of
MIKOHN and shall devote such substantial and sufficient amounts of his productive time, ability,
and attention to the business of MIKOHN during the Term of this Agreement as may be reasonable and
necessary to accomplish the objectives and complete the tasks assigned to Employee. Prior written
consent of MIKOHN shall be required before Employee shall undertake to perform any outside services
of a business, commercial, or professional nature, whether for compensation or otherwise. The
foregoing notwithstanding, Employee may devote reasonable time to activities other than those
required under this Agreement, including activities involving professional, charitable, community,
educational, religious and similar types of organizations, speaking engagements, membership on the
boards of directors of other organizations and similar types of activities to the extent that such
activities do not inhibit or prohibit the performance of services under this Agreement.

4.   Uniqueness of Services   .  Employee hereby acknowledges that the services to be
performed by him under the terms of this Agreement are of a special and unique value. Accordingly,
the obligations of Employee under this Agreement are non-assignable.

5.   Compensation of Employee   . 

a.   Base Annual Salary   .  As compensation for services hereunder, Employee shall receive
a Base Annual Salary at the rate of not less than $260,000 per annum payable in accordance with
MIKOHN s ordinary payroll practices (and in any event no less frequently than monthly). On each
anniversary date of June 20, 2005 (the  Commencement Date ), Employee s Base Annual Salary shall be
increased by not less than 5% per annum.

b.   Signing Bonus/Moving Allowance   .  Upon the execution of this Agreement, Employee
shall be paid $80,000 as a combined signing bonus and moving allowance. Such bonus shall be
 grossed up  to cover Employee s personal income taxes payable in connection therewith. This sum
is given in consideration of Employee s commitment not to terminate this Agreement prior to the
initial expiration date, other than as permitted pursuant to Sections 6(c) or 19 below. If
Employee terminates this Agreement (other than as permitted pursuant to

1

Sections 6(c) or 19 below)
or if Employee is terminated for Cause (as defined Section 6(b) below) prior to the expiration of
three (3) years from the Commencement Date, Employee will be obligated to return and remit a pro
rata portion of the sum to MIKOHN. (For example, if Employee should terminate this Agreement after
one year as described above, Employee will be required to remit the sum of $53,333.34.)

c.   Bonus.   Employee shall be eligible for an annual bonus payment of up to 60% or 80%
of Employee s Base Salary pursuant to the executive incentive compensation plan approved by the
Board of Directors on August 10, 2004 (the  Executive Incentive Compensation Plan  provided,
however that MIKOHN and Employee, as applicable, achieve the relevant bonus targets set forth in
the Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as such targets may be determined (and/or modified and
revised, as applicable) by the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors in consultation
with Employee.

d.   Stock Options   .  MIKOHN has granted to Employee options to purchase 100,000 shares
of MIKOHN Common Stock (the  Options ) under MIKOHN s Stock Option Plan ( Option Plan ). The
Options are subject to the terms and conditions of the Option Plan (a copy of which is attached
hereto), and shall additionally provide as follows:

(1) The Options shall be designated as Incentive Options.

(2) Monthly, 1/48th of the Option Shares shall become eligible for purchase by Employee.

(3) The Options shall terminate on (i) the expiration date specified in the Stock Option
Agreements or (ii) such earlier date as termination may occur according to the terms and conditions
of the Option Plan and/or the Stock Option Agreements. Upon termination of this Agreement for any
reason, Employee and/or his successors and assigns shall have only such rights with respect to the
Option as are specified in the Plan, the Stock Option Agreements, or this Agreement, and shall not
be entitled to any compensation in any form for the loss of any other right with respect thereto.

(4) All Options to acquire common stock of MIKOHN granted to Employee during the term of this
Agreement shall become 100% vested (i) upon any  Change in Control  as defined in Section 19 below;
(ii) if MIKOHN or any successor or assignee of MIKOHN should terminate this Agreement other than
for Cause or deliver a Non-renewal Notice to Employee pursuant to Section 1 above; (iii) if
Employee should terminate this Agreement for Good Reason as permitted in Section 6(c) below; or
(iv) upon Employee s death or permanent disability as described in Section 6(e) below; provided,
however, that in the case of (ii), (iii) or (iv) above, such vesting shall be conditioned on
Employee (or Employee s estate) furnishing to MIKOHN an effective waiver and release of claims (a
form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A).

(5) Employee shall have not less than 90 days to exercise any options which are vested as of
the effective date of termination of his employment with MIKOHN, regardless of the reason therefor.

e.   Automobile   .  MIKOHN shall provide Employee an automobile allowance in the amount of
$1,000 per month.

f.   Country Club Membership   .  MIKOHN shall provide Employee with the use of a
membership in a country club of Employee s choice, the initial cost of which shall not exceed
$35,000. In addition, MIKOHN shall reimburse Employee up to $500 per month for country club dues.
Such monthly amounts shall be  grossed up  to cover Employee s personal income taxes payable in
connection therewith.

g.   Employee Benefits   .  Employee shall receive such benefits, fringe benefits and
entitlements as is usual and customary for MIKOHN to provide an executive employee of like status
and position and are consistent with MIKOHN s established policies on employment, which may be
revised from time to time in the sole discretion of MIKOHN, including but not limited to:
Executive medical benefits for Employee and his family and an

2

Annual Life Insurance premium payment
by MIKOHN for Employee of up to $15,000 per annum for the duration of the Agreement.

h.   Business Expenses   .  MIKOHN will reimburse Employee for reasonable business expenses
incurred in performing Employee s duties and promoting the business of MIKOHN.

i.   Restricted Stock.   MIKOHN has granted Employee 35,000 restricted shares ( Shares )
that are governed by, and vested in accordance with the terms of MIKOHN s Restricted Stock Plan
( Stock Plan ). The Fair Market Price for the Shares is $13.46. The Shares have been granted
pursuant to the form of MIKOHN s standard Restricted Stock Grant Agreement (a copy of which is
attached hereto) and are subject to the terms and conditions thereof.

6.   Termination of Employment   . 

a. Either party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days written
notice to the other. If MIKOHN delivers a Non-renewal Notice to Employee, or if MIKOHN should
terminate this Agreement other than for  Cause  as defined in Section 6(b) below ( termination
without Cause ) or Employee should resign for  Good Reason  as defined in Section 6(c) below (in
either instance except as described in Section 19 below, in which case the provisions of Section 19
shall apply), MIKOHN shall, upon the Employee s furnishing to MIKOHN an effective waiver and
release of claims (a form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A), pay to Employee (x) a sum
equal to Employee s Base Salary for the most recent 18 months, and (y) an amount equal to
Employee s COBRA health insurance premiums for the 18   month period immediately following
such termination. In such event, MIKOHN shall also reimburse Employee for reasonable expenses
associated with outplacement employment activities for Employee, as well pay Employee the sum of
$25,000 (including a  gross up  amount to cover Employee s personal income taxes payable in
connection therewith) for Employee s relocation. Any sums payable under this Section shall be paid
in full upon the effective date of the termination of the employment relationship between MIKOHN
and Employee.

b.   Termination For Cause.   MIKOHN shall have the right to terminate Employee s
employment at any time for Cause by giving Employee written notice of the effective date of
termination. In the event of termination for Cause, Employee shall be paid Employee s salary and
accrued and unused vacation benefits through the effective date of termination on the date of
termination. After the effective date of termination, Employee shall not be entitled to accrue or
vest in any further salary, severance pay, benefits, fringe benefits or entitlements except as may
be required by statute or regulation of any agency or competent jurisdiction; provided, however,
that in the event of a termination pursuant to Section 6(b)(e) below, pay Employee the sum of
$25,000 (including a  gross up  amount to cover Employee s personal income taxes payable in
connection therewith) for Employee s relocation. For the purposes of this Agreement,  Cause  shall
mean:

(a) 
       
     The willful and continued failure by the Employee to substantially
perform his duties with MIKOHN (other than any such failure resulting from the
Employee s being Disabled), within a reasonable period of time after a written
demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Employee by the Board of
Directors ( Board ), which demand specifically identifies the manner in which
the Board believes that the Employee has not substantially performed his
duties; 

(b) 
       
     The willful engaging by the Employee in conduct which is
demonstrably and materially injurious to MIKOHN, monetarily or otherwise; 

(c) 
       
     Employee s conviction of a crime involving serious
moral turpitude to the extent that, in the reasonable judgment of the MIKOHN s
Board, the Employee s credibility and reputation no longer conform to the
standard of MIKOHN s Employees; 

3

(d) 
       
     The knowing or repeated violation of any material MIKOHN policy
applicable to the Employee following written notice from MIKOHN of such
violations. 

(e) 
       
     The loss, revocation, suspension of, or failure to obtain any
license or certification of Employee necessary for Employee to discharge
Employee s duties on behalf of MIKOHN. Any issues involving the loss,
revocation, suspension of or failure to obtain of such licenses and/or
certifications will be provided in writing to the Employee, and Employee, with
the assistance of MIKOHN, will have a reasonable period of time to remedy the
respective issue. 

(f) 
       
     Willful acts or omissions by Employee which jeopardize any
governmental registration, license, permit or other governmental permission
material to the business of MIKOHN in any jurisdiction in which MIKOHN does
business or seeks to do business; 

(g) 
       
     The solicitation or acceptance of payment or gratuity from any
existing or potential customer or supplier of MIKOHN without the prior written
consent of MIKOHN s Chief Executive Officer. 

c.   Resignation For Good Reason.   Employee may terminate his employment under this
Agreement for  Good Reason  (as defined hereunder) at any time, by providing written notice to
MIKOHN of same following the provision to MIKOHN of a thirty (30) day opportunity to cure such Good
Reason. Any termination for Good Reason shall have the same legal effect under this Agreement as a
termination without Cause by MIKOHN. For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Good Reason  shall
mean, with respect to the Employee, the occurrence of one or more of the following events without
such Employee s express written consent: (i) a material reduction in the Employee s duties,
responsibilities, title or reporting relationships; (ii) a material reduction in the Employee s
base salary or total target annual cash compensation; or (iii) a permanent relocation of the
Employee s business office to a location more than fifty (50) miles from the location at which the
Employee currently performs his or her duties.

d. For purposes of this Agreement, no act, or failure to act, on the Employee s part shall be
deemed  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, intentionally by the Employee not in good
faith and without reasonable belief that the Employee s action or omission was in the best interest
of MIKOHN.

e. This Agreement shall terminate automatically in the event that: (i) Employee fails or is
unable to perform Employee s duties due to injury, illness or other incapacity for ninety (90) days
in any twelve (12) month period (except that Employee may be entitled to disability payments
pursuant to MIKOHN s disability plan, if any); or (ii) Death of Employee. Upon termination of this
Agreement as the result of the death or disability of Employee, all vested stock options and
restricted stock provided herein shall become the property of the Employee s estate.

7.   Covenant of Confidentiality   .  All documents, records, files, manuals, forms,
materials, supplies, computer programs, trade secrets and other information which comes into
Employee s possession from time to time during Employee s employment by MIKOHN, and/or any of
MIKOHN s subsidiaries or affiliates, shall be deemed to be confidential and proprietary to MIKOHN
and shall remain the sole and exclusive property of MIKOHN. Employee acknowledges that all such
confidential and proprietary information is confidential and proprietary and not readily available
to MIKOHN s business competitors. On the effective date of the termination of the employment
relationship or at such other date specified by MIKOHN, Employee agrees that he will return to
MIKOHN all such confidential and proprietary items (including, but not limited to, company badge
and keys) in his control or possession, and all copies thereof, and that he will not remove any
such items from the offices of MIKOHN.

8.   Covenant of Non-Disclosure   .  Without the prior written approval of MIKOHN, Employee
shall keep confidential and not disclose or otherwise make use of any of the confidential or
proprietary information or trade secrets referred to in Section 7 nor reveal the same to any third
party whomsoever, except as required by law.

4

9.   Covenant of Non-Solicitation   .  During the Term of this Agreement and for a period
of two (2) years following the effective date of termination, Employee, either on Employee s own
account or for any person, firm, company or other entity, shall not solicit, interfere with or
induce, or attempt to induce, any employee of MIKOHN, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to
leave their employment or to breach their employment agreement, if any, with MIKOHN.

10.   Covenant of Cooperation   .  Employee agrees to cooperate with MIKOHN in any
litigation or administrative proceedings involving any matters with which Employee was involved
during his employment by MIKOHN. MIKOHN shall reimburse Employee for reasonable expenses incurred
in providing such assistance.

11.   Covenant Against Competition   . 

a.   Scope and Term   .  During the Term of this Agreement and for an additional period
ending one (1) year after the effective date of termination or expiration of this Agreement,
whichever occurs first, Employee shall not directly or indirectly engage in or become a partner,
officer, principal, employee, consultant, investor, creditor or stockholder of any business,
proprietorship, association, firm, corporation or any other business entity which is engaged or
proposes to engage or hereafter engages in any business which competes with the business of MIKOHN
and/or any of MIKOHN s subsidiaries or affiliates in any geographic area in which MIKOHN conducts
business at the time of the termination or expiration of the employment relationship. Ownership by
Employee, as a passive investment, of less than two percent (2%) of the outstanding shares of
capital stock of any corporation with one or more classes of its capital stock listed on a national
securities exchange or publicly traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market or in the over-the-counter market
shall not constitute a breach of this paragraph.

b.   Option to Extend Term of Covenant   .  Upon thirty (30) days  written notice to
Employee given prior to the expiration of the term of the Covenant Against Competition specified in
Section 11(a) above, MIKOHN shall have the option to extend said term for a period of up to one (1)
additional year upon payment of the following consideration to Employee:

(1) If Employee is terminated without Cause or this Agreement expires without renewal, or
Employee terminates his employment pursuant to Sections 6(c) or 19, the sum of $300,000.00 payable
in 12 monthly installments; or

(2) If Employee terminates this Agreement other than as permitted in Sections 6(c) or 19 or is
terminated by MIKOHN for Cause, the sum of $120,000.00 payable in 12 monthly installments.

12.   Rights to Inventions   . 

a.   Inventions Defined   .   Inventions  means discoveries, concepts, and ideas, whether
patentable or not, relating to any present or contemplated activity of MIKOHN, including without
limitation devices, processes, methods, formulae, techniques, and any improvements to the
foregoing.

b.   Application   .  This Section 12 shall apply to all Inventions made or conceived by
Employee, whether or not during the hours of his employment or with the use of MIKOHN facilities,
materials, or personnel, either solely or jointly with others, during the Term of his employment by
MIKOHN. This Section 12 does not apply to any invention disclosed in writing to MIKOHN by Employee
prior to the execution of this Agreement.

c.   Assignment   .  Employee hereby assigns and agrees to assign to MIKOHN all of his
rights to Inventions described in (b) above and to all proprietary rights therein, based thereon or
related thereto, including without limitation applications for United States and foreign letters
patent and resulting letters patent.

d.   Reports   .  Employee shall inform MIKOHN promptly and fully of each Invention by a
written report, setting forth in detail the structures, procedures, and methodology employed and
the results achieved ( Notice of Invention ). A report shall also be submitted by Employee upon
completion of any study or research project

5

undertaken on MIKOHN s behalf, whether or not in
Employee s opinion a given study or project has resulted in an Invention.

e.   Patents   .  At MIKOHN s request and expense, Employee shall execute such documents
and provide such assistance as may be deemed necessary by MIKOHN to apply for, defend or enforce
any United States and foreign letters patent based on or related to such Inventions.

13.   Remedies   .  Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary,
Employee acknowledges and agrees that if Employee commits a material breach of the Covenant of
Confidentiality (Section 7), Covenant of Non-Disclosure (Section 8), Covenant of Non-Solicitation
(Section 9), Covenant of Cooperation (Section 10), Covenant Against Competition (Section 11), or
Rights to Inventions (Section 12), MIKOHN shall have the right to have the obligations of Employee
specifically enforced by any court having jurisdiction on the grounds that any such breach will
cause irreparable injury to MIKOHN and money damages will not provide an adequate remedy. Such
equitable remedies shall be in addition to any other remedies at law or equity, all of which
remedies shall be cumulative and not exclusive. Employee further acknowledges and agrees that the
obligations contained in Sections 7 through 12, of this Agreement are fair, do not unreasonably
restrict Employee s future employment and business opportunities, and are commensurate with the
compensation arrangements set out in this Agreement.

14.   Survivability   .  Sections 7 through 13, of this Agreement shall survive termination
of the employment relationship and this Agreement.

15.   General Provisions   . 

a.   Arbitration   .  Any controversy involving the construction, application,
enforceability or breach of any of the terms, provisions, or conditions of this Agreement,
including without limitation claims for breach of contract, violation of public policy, breach of
implied covenant, intentional infliction of emotional distress or any other alleged claims which
are not settled by mutual agreement of the parties, shall be submitted to final and binding
arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The cost of
arbitration shall be borne by the losing party. In consideration of each party s agreement to
submit to arbitration any and all disputes that arise under this Agreement, each party agrees that
the arbitration provisions of this Agreement shall constitute his/its exclusive remedy and each
party expressly waives the right to pursue redress of any kind in any other forum. The parties
further agree that the arbitrator acting hereunder shall not be empowered to add to, subtract from,
delete or in any other way modify the terms of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any
party shall have the limited right to seek equitable relief in the form of a temporary restraining
order or preliminary injunction in a court of competent jurisdiction to protect itself from actual
or threatened irreparable injury resulting from an alleged breach of this Agreement pending a final
decision in arbitration.

b.   Authorization   .  MIKOHN and Employee each represent and warrant to the other that
he/it has the authority, power and right to deliver, execute and fully perform the terms of this
Agreement.

c.   Entire Agreement   .  Employee understands and acknowledges that this document
constitutes the entire agreement between Employee and MIKOHN with regard to Employee s employment
by MIKOHN and Employee s post-employment activities concerning MIKOHN. This Agreement supersedes
any and all other written and oral agreements between the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof. Any and all prior agreements, promises, negotiations, or representations, either
written or oral, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement not expressly set forth in this
Agreement are of no force and effect. This Agreement may be altered, amended, or modified only in
writing signed by all of the parties hereto. Any oral representations or modifications concerning
this instrument shall be of no force and effect.

d.   Severability   .  If any term, provision, covenant, or condition of this Agreement is
held by a court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void, or unenforceable,
the remainder of such provisions and all of the remaining provisions hereof shall remain in full
force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by law and shall in no way be affected, impaired,
or invalidated as a result of such decision.

6

e.   Governing Law   .  Except to the extent that federal law may preempt Nevada law, this
Agreement and the rights and obligations hereunder shall be governed, construed and enforced in
accordance with the laws of the State of Nevada.

f.   Taxes   .  Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, all
compensation payable hereunder is gross and shall be subject to such withholding taxes and other
taxes as may be provided by law. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement,
Employee shall be responsible for the payment of all taxes attributable to the compensation
provided by this Agreement except for those taxes required by law to be paid or withheld by MIKOHN.

g.   Assignment   .  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
successors and assigns of MIKOHN. Employee may not sell, transfer, assign, or pledge any of his
rights or interests pursuant to this Agreement.

h.   Waiver   .  Either party s failure to enforce any provision or provisions of this
Agreement shall not in any way be construed as a waiver of any such provision or provisions, or
prevent that party thereafter from enforcing such provision or provisions and each and every other
provision of this Agreement.

i.   Captions   .  Titles and headings to sections in this Agreement are for the purpose of
reference only and shall in no way limit, define, or otherwise affect any provisions contained
therein.

j.   Breach   Right to Cure   .  A party shall be deemed in breach of this Agreement only
upon the failure to perform any obligation under this Agreement after receipt of written notice of
breach and failure to cure such breach within ten (10) days thereafter; provided, however, such
notice shall not be required where a breach or threatened breach would cause irreparable harm to
the other party and such other party may immediately seek equitable relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction to enjoin such breach.

16.   Acknowledgement   .  Employee acknowledges that he has been given a reasonable period
of time to study this Agreement before signing it. Employee certifies that he has fully read, has
received an explanation of, and completely understands the terms, nature, and effect of this
Agreement. Employee further acknowledges that he is executing this Agreement freely, knowingly,
and voluntarily and that Employee s execution of this Agreement is not the result of any fraud,
duress, mistake, or undue influence whatsoever. In executing this Agreement, Employee does not
rely on any inducements, promises, or representations by MIKOHN other than the terms and conditions
of this Agreement.

17.   Reserved  .

18.   Indemnification For Employee Officers.   MIKOHN will, to the maximum extent
permitted by law, defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Employee and the Employee s heirs,
estate, executors and administrators against any costs, losses, claims, suits, proceedings, damages
or liabilities to which the Employee may become subject which arise out of, are based upon or
relate to the Employee s employment by MIKOHN (and any predecessor company to MIKOHN), or the
Employee s service as an officer or member of the Board of Directors of MIKOHN (or any predecessor
company of MIKOHN) or any Affiliate, including without limitation reimbursement for any legal or
other expenses reasonably incurred by the Employee in connection with investigation and defending
against any such costs, losses, claims, suits, proceedings, damages or liabilities.

MIKOHN may maintain directors and officers liability insurance in commercially reasonable amounts
(as reasonably determined by the Board), and, in the event such insurance is obtained, the Employee
shall be covered under such insurance to the same extent as other senior management employees (and
directors, with respect to the Employee s role as a director, as may be applicable); provided,
however, that MIKOHN shall not be required to maintain such insurance coverage unless the Board
determines that it is obtainable at reasonable cost.

7

19.   Change in Control Provision.    Notwithstanding any Agreement provisions to the
contrary, for a period of twelve (12) months following a Change in Control, in the event of a
termination of Employee other than for Cause, or if the Employee resigns for  Good Reason  as that
term is defined in Section 6(c) above, Employee shall be entitled to receive a sum equal to three
times the Employee s annualized Base Salary for the most recently completed calendar year payable
in a lump sum upon termination. At any point during the thirteenth month following a Change in
Control, Employee shall be entitled to terminate the Agreement and receive a sum equal to the
amount they would otherwise be entitled to pursuant to termination by MIKOHN other than for Cause
at the time of such election. In addition to the foregoing, upon a Change in Control and
separation of the Employee from MIKOHN, MIKOHN agrees to reimburse Employee for reasonable expenses
associated with outplacement employment activities for Employee. For the purposes of this
Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:

(i) a  Change in Control  of MIKOHN means the occurrence, in a single transaction or in a
series of related transactions, of any one or more of the following events:

a. Any Exchange Act Person becomes the Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of MIKOHN
representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of MIKOHN s then
outstanding securities other than by virtue of a merger, consolidation or similar transaction.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur (a) on account of
the acquisition of securities of MIKOHN by an investor, any affiliate thereof or any other Exchange
Act Person from MIKOHN in a transaction or series of related transactions the primary purpose of
which is to obtain financing for MIKOHN through the issuance of equity securities or (b) solely
because the level of Ownership held by any Exchange Act Person (the  Subject Person ) exceeds the
designated percentage threshold of the outstanding voting securities as a result of a repurchase or
other acquisition of voting securities by MIKOHN reducing the number of shares outstanding,
provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a
result of the acquisition of voting securities by MIKOHN, and after such share acquisition, the
Subject Person becomes the Owner of any additional voting securities that, assuming the repurchase
or other acquisition had not occurred, increases the percentage of the then outstanding voting
securities Owned by the Subject Person over the designated percentage threshold, then a Change in
Control shall be deemed to occur;

b. There is consummated a merger, consolidation or similar transaction involving (directly or
indirectly) MIKOHN and, immediately after the consummation of such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction, the stockholders of MIKOHN immediately prior thereto do not Own, directly or
indirectly, either (a) outstanding voting securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of
the combined outstanding voting power of the surviving Entity in such merger, consolidation or
similar transaction or (b) more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined outstanding voting power
of the parent of the surviving Entity in such merger, consolidation or similar transaction, in each
case in substantially the same proportions as their Ownership of the outstanding voting securities
of MIKOHN immediately prior to such transaction;

c. The stockholders of MIKOHN approve or the Board approves a plan of complete dissolution or
liquidation of MIKOHN, or a complete dissolution or liquidation of MIKOHN shall otherwise occur;

d. There is consummated a sale, lease, license or other disposition of all or substantially
all of the consolidated assets of MIKOHN and its subsidiaries, other than a sale, lease, license or
other disposition of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of MIKOHN and its
subsidiaries to an Entity, more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of which are Owned by stockholders of MIKOHN in substantially the same proportions as
their Ownership of the outstanding voting securities of MIKOHN immediately prior to such sale,
lease, license or other disposition; or

e. Individuals who, on the date this Agreement is executed, are members of the Board (the
 Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the members of the
Board; provided, however, that if the appointment or election (or nomination for election) of any
new Board member was approved or recommended by a majority vote of the members of the Incumbent
Board then still in office, such new

8

member
shall be considered as a member of the Incumbent Board.

(ii)  Entity  means a corporation, partnership or other entity.

(iii)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

(iv)  Exchange Act Person  means any natural person, Entity or  group  (within the meaning of
Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act), except that  Exchange Act Person  shall not include
(A) MIKOHN or any subsidiary of MIKOHN, (B) any employee benefit plan of MIKOHN or any subsidiary
of MIKOHN or any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of
MIKOHN or any subsidiary of MIKOHN, (C) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to
an offering of such securities, or (D) an Entity Owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders
of MIKOHN in substantially the same proportions as their Ownership of stock of MIKOHN.

(v)  Own,   Owned,   Owner,   Ownership    A person or Entity shall be deemed to  Own,  to
have  Owned,  to be the  Owner  of, or to have acquired  Ownership  of securities if such person or
Entity, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or
otherwise, has or shares voting power, which includes the power to vote or to direct the voting,
with respect to such securities.

20.   Parachute Payments.   If any payment or benefit the Employee would receive from
MIKOHN pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise ( Payment ) would (i) constitute a  parachute
payment  within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
 Code ), and (ii) be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (the  Excise
Tax ), then the Employee will receive an additional payment (the  Gross-up ) from MIKOHN such that
after taking into account all applicable federal, state and local employment taxes, income taxes,
the Excise Tax and all applicable taxes on the Gross-up (all computed at the highest applicable
marginal rate), results in the Employee s receipt, on an after-tax basis, of the full amount of the
Payment. MIKOHN s principal outside accounting firm or principal outside tax advisors, as selected
by MIKOHN and Employee, will make all determinations hereunder and shall provide its calculations,
together with detailed supporting documentation, to MIKOHN and the Employee within fifteen (15)
calendar days after the date on which the Employee s right to a Payment is triggered (if requested
at that time by MIKOHN or Employee) or such other time as requested by MIKOHN or the Employee. The
accounting firm or tax advisors shall furnish MIKOHN and the Employee with an opinion reasonably
acceptable to the Employee regarding the application of the Excise Tax to such Payment. MIKOHN
shall be entitled to rely upon the accounting firm s or tax advisors  determinations, as
applicable, which shall be final, binding and conclusive on Employee and MIKOHN.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have read, understood, and voluntarily executed this
Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

EMPLOYEE 

MIKOHN GAMING CORPORATION 

/s/ Thomas M. Galanty

THOMAS M. GALANTY

By:

/s/ Michael F. Dreitzer

Title:

E.V.P.   General Counsel 

9

EXHIBIT A 

RELEASE AND WAIVER OF CLAIMS 

In consideration of the payments and other benefits set forth in Section 5(d)(4) and Section
6(a) of the Employment Agreement dated      , to which this form is attached, I,  Thomas M.
Galanty , hereby furnish  Progressive Gaming International Corporation  (the   Company  ),
with the following release and waiver (  Release and Waiver  ).

In exchange for the consideration provided to me by the Employment Agreement that I am not
otherwise entitled to receive, I hereby generally and completely release the Company and its
directors, officers, employees, shareholders, partners, agents, attorneys, predecessors,
successors, parent and subsidiary entities, insurers, Affiliates, and assigns from any and all
claims, liabilities and obligations, both known and unknown, that arise out of or are in any way
related to events, acts, conduct, or omissions occurring prior to my signing this Release and
Waiver. This general release includes, but is not limited to: (1) all claims arising out of or in
any way related to my employment with the Company or the termination of that employment; (2) all
claims related to my compensation or benefits from the Company, including, but not limited to,
salary, bonuses, commissions, vacation pay, expense reimbursements, severance pay, fringe benefits,
stock, stock options, or any other ownership interests in the Company; (3) all claims for breach of
contract, wrongful termination, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(4) all tort claims, including, but not limited to, claims for fraud, defamation, emotional
distress, and discharge in violation of public policy; and (5) all federal, state, and local
statutory claims, including, but not limited to, claims for discrimination, harassment,
retaliation, attorneys  fees, or other claims arising under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964
(as amended), the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the federal Age Discrimination
in Employment Act of 1967 (as amended) (  ADEA  ), and the California Fair Employment and Housing Act
(as amended).

I also acknowledge that I have read and understand Section 1542 of the California Civil Code
which reads as follows:   A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not
know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him
must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor.   I hereby expressly waive and
relinquish all rights and benefits under that section and any law of any jurisdiction of similar
effect with respect to any claims I may have against the Company.

I acknowledge that, among other rights, I am waiving and releasing any rights I may have under
ADEA, that this Release and Waiver is knowing and voluntary, and that the consideration given for
this Release and Waiver is in addition to anything of value to which I was already entitled as an
executive of the Company. If I am 40 years of age or older upon execution of this Release and
Waiver, I further acknowledge that I have been advised, as required by the Older Workers Benefit
Protection Act, that: (a) the release and waiver granted herein does not relate to claims under
the ADEA which may arise after this Release and Waiver is executed; (b) I have the right to consult
with an attorney prior to executing this Release and Waiver (although I may choose voluntarily not
to do so); and (c) I have twenty-one (21) days from the date of termination of my employment with
the Company in which to consider this Release and Waiver (although I may choose voluntarily to
execute this Release and Waiver earlier); (d) I have seven (7) days following the execution of this
Release and Waiver to revoke my consent to this Release and Waiver; and (e) this Release and Waiver
shall not be effective until the seven (7) day revocation period has expired.

If I am less than 40 years of age upon execution of this Release and Waiver, I acknowledge
that I have the right to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Release and Waiver
(although I may choose voluntarily not to do so); and (c) I have five (5) days from the date of
termination of my employment with the Company in which to consider this Release and Waiver
(although I may choose voluntarily to execute this Release and Waiver earlier).

This Release and Waiver constitutes the complete, final and exclusive embodiment of the entire
agreement between the Company and me with regard to the subject matter hereof. I am not relying on
any promise or representation by the Company that is not expressly stated herein. This Release and
Waiver may only be modified by a writing signed by both me and a duly authorized officer of the
Company.

Date:

By: 

A-1

</EX-10.12>

<EX-10.19>
 4
 a18352exv10w19.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.19

exv10w19 

Exhibit 10.19 

CONSULTING AND CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT 

This Consulting and Confidentiality Agreement (this  Agreement ) is entered into as of September
19, 2005 and has an effective date of September 19, 2005, and is by and between by and between
 MIKOHN GAMING CORPORATION , a Nevada corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates doing business
as  PROGRESSIVE GAMING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION  ( PGIC ) with its principal place of business
located at 920 Pilot Road, Las Vegas, Nevada 89119, and Michael F. Dreitzer, an individual
( Contractor ).

WHEREAS, PGIC desires to engage a contractor for the performance of certain services; and

WHEREAS, Contractor desires to perform such services for PGIC.

NOW THEREFORE ,  for valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties
hereby agree as follows:

1. 
       
       Engagement of Services.   

A. 
       
     PGIC hereby engages Contractor to perform the services described in this Agreement, and
Contractor agrees to perform services for PGIC as follows: Provide PGIC with consulting
services for up to 40 hours per month during the Term (as defined below) with regard to
PGIC s regulatory matters, and with any additional assignments and tasks as shall be
assigned to Contractor by PGIC (the  Work,  which shall also include any services,
material, output, work, or work product arising out of this Agreement or produced in
connection with this Agreement). 

B. 
       
     Time is of the essence. The Work shall be performed in a good, workman-like manner in
accordance with the standards of Contractor s profession and such other accepted standards
as may be applicable to Work of this kind. Contractor shall devote the necessary time and
attention to the Work as is reasonably required to diligently, timely, efficiently, and
professionally complete the Work no later than the time necessary or required by deadlines. 

C. 
       
     All Work must meet with PGIC s approval, which is to be determined in PGIC s sole
discretion, which discretion shall not to be unreasonably withheld. 

D. 
       
     PGIC specifically selected Contractor to perform the Work based upon PGIC receiving
Contractor s personal service and therefore Contractor may not subcontract or otherwise
delegate its obligations under this Agreement without PGIC s prior written consent and any
attempted assignment contrary to this provision shall be void. 

E. 
       
     Contractor acknowledges that PGIC does business in a highly regulated gaming industry
and that certain suitability requirements for Contractor must be strictly met in order to
perform its Services for PGIC. Accordingly, Contractor shall submit to all PGIC requested
screening, including but not limited to any or all of the following; alcohol   substance
abuse screening, fingerprinting, personal history (including criminal background) and/or
personal financial disclosures (collectively,  Prerequisite Screening ). The Prerequisite
Screening is a condition precedent to this Agreement and/or performing any Work under this
Agreement. Contractor further agrees to execute any and all releases for PGIC to complete
the Prerequisite Screening. Should Contractor not successfully complete and/or pass the
Prerequisite Screening or any later screenings, this Agreement shall be immediately
terminated without any liability to PGIC or Contractor 

1

2. 
       
       Compensation and Term.   

A. 
       
       Fees.   PGIC will pay Contractor for complete and full performance for all
Work specified in this Agreement and for all related tasks the amount of Six Thousand Five
Hundred and 00/100 U.S. Dollars ($6,500.00) per month ( Compensation ). The Compensation
is inclusive of any federal, state, municipal and other governmental taxes, franchise,
sales, use, or other taxes (included but not limited to value added taxes) now or hereafter
imposed on the Contractor by any tax authority. 

B. 
       
       Expenses.   Contractor will be reimbursed pursuant to PGIC s standard policy
as may be modified from time to time at PGIC s sole discretion for any reasonable expenses
incurred in connection with the performance of the Work. All expenses must be pre-approved
by PGIC, and Contractor shall keep full and accurate records and documentation to
substantiate the amounts claimed in any invoice, which records shall be made available to
PGIC for inspection at all times. 

C. 
       
       Benefits.   During the Term of this Agreement PGIC shall provide Contractor
with mobile phone, handheld email and email service similar to that provided to employees
of PGIC. Contractor shall be responsible for any COBRA payments he may incur for
maintaining health insurance. 

D. 
       
       Contractor s Financial Obligations.   Contractor shall have full
responsibility for the payment of all federal, state and local taxes and contributions,
including penalties and interest, imposed pursuant to unemployment insurance, social
security, income tax, gross income tax, workmen s compensation or any other similar
statute, and Contractor shall be solely responsible for any liability to third parties
resulting from the negligent or intentional acts or omissions of Contractor, its
representatives, agents, employees or subcontractors arising from or occurring in the
course of the Work. 

E. 
       
       Payment Procedure.   Contractor shall be paid Compensation every two weeks
in accordance with Company s customary paydays. 

F. 
       
       Term.   The term of this Agreement shall be one (1) year (the  Term ).
Company may terminate this Agreement at any time for any reason or no reason at all. In
the event PGIC terminates this Agreement without cause, Contractor shall be entitled to
receive the Compensation for the remaining duration of the original Term. Contractor
reserves the right to terminate this Agreement at any time upon thirty (30) days written
notice to PGIC with no further liability or obligation to either party. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this Agreement, PGIC shall have the sole and exclusive right
and option to terminate this Agreement by written notice to Contractor, and thereupon this
Agreement shall terminate and become void and there shall be no liability on the part of
either party (excepting only any provision of this Agreement which provides for its
survival upon any termination of this Agreement), upon the occurrence of any of the
following  for cause  events: 

1) 
       
     Contractor s failure to timely apply for, obtain and/or maintain any and all
licenses, permits, approvals and authorizations from any Regulator necessary for
Contractor to perform the obligations and duties of this Agreement and/or to comply
with applicable laws; 

2) 
       
     A final order in writing by any Regulator requiring the termination of this
Agreement; 

3) 
       
     The reasonable belief of PGIC that the continuation of this Agreement will have
a detrimental impact on the ability of PGIC or its parent, subsidiaries or affiliates
to be qualified or to hold or maintain any license, permit, approval or authorization
issued or to be granted by any Regulator; 

4) 
       
     The commission of any act or anything that is or shall be an offense involving
moral turpitude under federal, state or local laws, or which brings Contractor into
public disrepute, contempt, scandal or ridicule, or which insults or offends the
community; 

2

5) 
       
     Breach of any of the confidentiality or non-disparagement provisions of this
Agreement; or 

6) 
       
     Disapproval of this Agreement by any Regulator having jurisdiction over such
matters. 

G. 
       
       Right to Withhold Payments.   Regardless of whether PGIC withholds payments,
Contractor shall have the obligation to convey to PGIC all Work, including all source code,
plans, records, drawings, reports and writings of any kind (if any) for the Work. In
addition to its right to withhold payments, PGIC may withhold any payment in whole or part
to protect itself from or in the event of (i) defective Work, (ii) third-party claims
arising from Contractor s performance of the Work, (iii) failure of Contractor to make
payments properly to any of its subcontractors, (iv) evidence of fraud, over-billing or
overpayment discovered upon audit, or (v) unsatisfactory or untimely performance of the
Work. 

3. 
       
       Independent Contractor Relationship.   Contractor and PGIC understand, acknowledge and
agree that Contractor s relationship with PGIC will be that of an independent contractor and
nothing in this Agreement is intended to or should be construed to create a partnership, joint
venture, or employment relationship. Contractor further represents that Contractor meets the
requirements of an Independent Contractor as set forth in Internal Revenue Service Revenue
Ruling 87-41. Further, Contractor shall not have any authority to act, or attempt to act, or
represent itself, directly or by implication, as an agent of PGIC or in any manner assume or
create, or attempt to assume or create, any obligation on behalf of or in the name of PGIC,
except as provided by PGIC, nor will either be deemed the agent, representative or employee of
the other. 

4. 
       
       Trade Secrets   Intellectual Property Rights   .  

A. 
       
       Disclosure of Inventions   .  Contractor agrees to disclose promptly in writing to
PGIC, or any person designated by PGIC, every invention, including but not limited to
computer programs, processes, know-how and other copyrightable and/or patentable material,
which is conceived, made or reduced to practice by Contractor within the scope of the Work
under this Agreement. Contractor represents that Contractor s performance of all of the
terms of this Agreement does not and will not breach any agreement to keep in confidence
proprietary information, knowledge or data of any third party and Contractor will not
disclose to PGIC, or induce PGIC to use, any confidential or proprietary information
belonging to third parties unless such use or disclosure is authorized in writing by such
owners. Contractor shall retain title to any prior works belonging to Contractor, and to
that extent Contractor represents that no property, inventions or copyrighted works
belonging to Contractor have been incorporated into the Work. If Contractor has
incorporated any property of Contractor s into the Work, such previously owned property is
hereby transferred to PGIC. 

B. 
       
       Non-Disclosure of Confidential Information   .  

1) 
       
     Contractor agrees, during the Term and forever thereafter, to keep confidential
all information provided by PGIC (excepting only such information as is already known
to the public, without breach of this Agreement), and including any such information
and material relating to any customer, vendor, licensor, licensee, or other party
transacting business with PGIC, and not to release, use or disclose the same except
with the prior written permission of PGIC. Contractor recognizes and acknowledges that
the list of PGIC s customers and clients, as it may exist from time to time, and PGIC s
financial information, are valuable, confidential, special, and unique assets and trade
secrets of PGIC s business. Contractor will not, during or after the Term, disclose
the list of PGIC s customers and/or clients, or PGIC s financial information, or any
part thereof, or any other trade secret, to any person, firm, corporation, association
or other entity for any reason or purpose whatsoever. 

2) 
       
     Contractor further agrees to consider all specific software, company and
personal data, 

3

regulatory data and information, investigative data and information, artwork and art
techniques, programming techniques, project concepts, planned projects, story concepts,
game concepts, toys, models, drawings, photographs, animation, cinematography, video,
marketing strategies, planned projects, unique hardware, hardware concepts, hardware
designs, terms of agreements with third parties, methods or techniques for acquiring
materials for various projects, data search and retrieval systems, computer processing
systems and techniques, systems design, project design, routine design, algorithms of
any sort, programming of any sort, interface design, layout or writing, operating
instructions, or any other type of work or intellectual property in any language, on any
platform, for any operating system, in any medium whatsoever, to be confidential
information, trade secrets and the exclusive property of PGIC which will not be
converted or disclosed to anyone for any purpose whatsoever. All records, files,
memoranda, reports, price lists, customer lists, drawings, plans, sketches, documents,
equipment, and the like, relating to the business of PGIC, which Contractor shall use or
prepare or come into contact with, shall remain the sole property and trade secret of
PGIC. Any property described or mentioned in this section is jointly or separately
referred to as the  Intellectual Property  in this Agreement. Any material, document,
data, plan, information, report, memorandum or writing of any kind whatsoever, in any
media whatsoever, described or mentioned in this section is jointly or separately
referred to as the  Confidential Information  in this Agreement. Those items
constituting Intellectual Property may also constitute Confidential Information, and
vice versa. 

3) 
       
     Contractor agrees that any information that is in the nature of Confidential
Information defined in this section that either party receives from any third party
and/or which either party is bound, contractually, or by common custom or usage in
trade to keep in confidence shall also be considered  Confidential Information  by both
parties. 

4) 
       
     Contractor agrees to use the Intellectual Property and/or Confidential
Information solely to perform the project hereunder pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement. Contractor s obligations with respect to the Intellectual Property and
Confidential Information also extend to any third party s proprietary or confidential
information disclosed to Contractor in the course of providing services to PGIC. 

5) 
       
     Contractor will hold all Confidential Information in trust and confidence.
Contractor agrees to take (and to fully cooperate with PGIC in undertaking) any
reasonable steps necessary to protect the Confidential Information from any disclosure
whatsoever. Contractor agrees to require any employee, officer, director, agent or
subcontractor who performs work or services pursuant to this Agreement to become bound
by the provisions of this Agreement. Contractor shall provide adequate evidence that
such persons are Contractor s employees. 

6) 
       
     Contractor recognizes that the disclosure of Confidential Information or trade
secrets by Contractor may give rise to irreparable injury to PGIC, which may not be
adequately compensated by damages. Accordingly, in the event of a breach or threatened
breach by Contractor of any provision of this section, PGIC shall be entitled to an
injunction restraining Contractor from disclosing, in whole or in part, the
Confidential Information defined in this section, or from rendering any services to any
person, firm, corporation, association or other entity to whom such Confidential
Information, in whole or in part, has been disclosed or is threatened to be disclosed.
Nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting PGIC from pursuing any other remedies
available to PGIC for such breach or threatened breach, including the recovery of
damages from Contractor. 

The undertakings set forth in this section shall survive the termination or cancellation of
this Agreement. 

C. 
       
       No Conflict of Interest   .  Contractor agrees during the Term of this Agreement
not to accept work or enter into a contract or accept an obligation inconsistent or
incompatible with Contractor s 

4

obligations or the scope of services rendered for PGIC under this Agreement. Contractor is
required to disclose any outside activities or interests, including ownership or
participation in the development of prior inventions, that conflict or may conflict with the
best interests of PGIC. Prompt disclosure is required under this paragraph if the activity
or interest is related, directly or indirectly, to: a product or product line of PGIC, a
manufacturing process of PGIC, or any activity that Contractor may be involved with on
behalf of PGIC. In the interests of full disclosure, the parties acknowledge and understand
Contractor will be performing contracting services for Global Gaming Group and TableMax
among others, and it is hereby agreed that the provision of such services presents no
conflict of interest with PGIC. To the extent that a potential conflict should arise
between any of these parties, Contractor agrees to take all necessary steps to avoid the
occurrence of same, including the termination of this or another agreement as warranted. 

D. 
       
       Assignment of Inventions   .  

1) 
       
     Inventions resulting from the Work (or that of Contractor s directors,
officers, agents, subcontractors or employees) under this Agreement are the exclusive
property of PGIC.  Inventions  includes any and all inventions, improvements,
discoveries, and technical developments that Contractor, solely or jointly with others,
conceives, makes, or reduces to practice within the scope of the Work. Contractor
hereby assigns to PGIC Contractor s entire right, title and interest in the Inventions
worldwide and any associated intellectual property rights, and agrees to execute any
and all documentation requested by PGIC to effect such assignment. 

2) 
       
     Contractor agrees to assist PGIC in any reasonable manner to obtain and enforce
for PGIC s benefit, patents, copyrights, and other property rights covering the
Inventions in any and all countries, and Contractor agrees to execute, when requested,
patent, copyright or similar applications and assignments to PGIC and any other lawful
documents deemed necessary by PGIC to carry out the purpose of this Agreement.
Contractor further agrees that the obligations and undertaking stated in this paragraph
will continue beyond the termination of Contractor s service to PGIC. If called upon
to render assistance under this paragraph, other than the execution of documents,
Contractor will be entitled to a fair and reasonable fee for providing such assistance. 

3) 
       
     In the event that PGIC is unable for any reason whatsoever to secure
Contractor s signature to any lawful and necessary document required to apply for or
execute any patent, copyright or other applications with respect to any Inventions
(including improvements, renewals, assignments, extensions, continuations, divisions,
amendments or continuations in part thereof), Contractor hereby irrevocably designates
and appoints PGIC and its duly authorized officers and agents as Contractor s agents
and attorneys-in-fact to act for and in Contractor s behalf and instead of Contractor,
to execute and file any such application and to do all other lawfully permitted acts to
further the prosecution and issuance of patents, copyrights or other rights thereon
with the same legal force and effect as if executed by Contractor. Contractor is
entitled to keep and retain Contractor s own tools, equipment and material provided and
owned by Contractor. 

E. 
       
       Return of PGIC S Property  . Contractor acknowledges that PGIC s sole and
exclusive property includes, among other things, all documents, such as drawings, manuals,
notebooks, reports, sketches, records, computer programs, employee lists, software,
hardware, videotapes, audiotapes, customer lists and the like in Contractor s custody,
control or possession, whether delivered to Contractor by PGIC or made by Contractor in the
performance of services under this Agreement, relating to the business activities of PGIC
or its customers or suppliers and containing any information or data whatsoever, whether or
not Confidential Information. Contractor agrees to deliver promptly to PGIC upon
termination of this Agreement or at any other time upon PGIC s request all of PGIC s
property and all copies of PGIC s property in Contractor s possession,

5

custody or control. 

5. 
       
       Works Made For Hire   .  All Work performed by Contractor while performing services for
PGIC (during business hours or not) in any language, on any platform, for any operating
system, in any media or in any form whatsoever (including but not limited to any of the
Intellectual Property), shall be deemed to have been done upon the commission of and at the
instruction of PGIC, shall be a  Work Made for Hire  within the meaning of the Copyright Act,
shall be the property of PGIC and may not be used by Contractor for any purpose except the
benefit of PGIC. Any and all such property shall be forthwith delivered to PGIC upon the PGIC
 s request. Contractor agrees that each of Contractor s own employees, officers, directors,
subcontractors and agents are performing  Works Made for Hire  for PGIC, and Contractor agrees
to cause each of its employees, subcontractors or agents engaged in any project or work for
PGIC to sign valid written agreements that such work is being performed as a  Work Made for
Hire  for PGIC. Furthermore, Contractor agrees to sign and to cause each of its employees,
agents and subcontractors engaged in any project or work for PGIC to sign written agreements
acknowledging that such work is owned by PGIC and agreeing to execute a  quitclaim assignment 
for such work to PGIC. 

6. 
       
       Contractor s Cooperation in Establishing Ownership   .  Contractor shall, from time to
time as may be requested by PGIC, do all things that may be necessary to establish or document
PGIC  s ownership of any work or work product that is properly the Property of PGIC,
including, but not limited to execution of appropriate copyright applications, copyright
assignments, transfers, sales, releases or any and all other documents or writings.
Contractor hereby waives any power Contractor may have to control, cause to modify or
otherwise effect the Intellectual Property, and hereby transfers all such powers, including
but not limited to any powers of Droit Morale, to PGIC. Contractor hereby irrevocably
appoints PGIC as Contractor s attorney in fact empowered solely to execute any documents
necessary to establish PGIC s ownership rights, rights to maintain, rights to defend and
rights to control any of the Intellectual Property and/or Confidential Property. 

7. 
       
       Additional Compensation   .  Other than Contractor s stated compensation, neither
Contractor nor its employees, subcontractors, officers, directors or agents is entitled to
receive any additional compensation from PGIC (including but not limited to royalties or fees)
as a result of any work performed, concepts developed, ideas submitted, or other efforts made
while a Contractor of PGIC except to the extent such further compensation is set forth in a
formal written agreement. Other than as provided by any formal written agreement Contractor
acknowledges that Contractor has no propriety or ownership interest in PGIC, or any related
entities, and will not receive any such interest. Unless stated in a separate written
agreement, Contractor is not entitled to any equity interest in PGIC. Neither Contractor nor
any of Contractor s officers, agents, directors or employees is entitled to any employment
benefits from PGIC, including but not limited to insurance, pensions, paid holidays,
vacations, sick leave, paid time off or profit sharing except as set forth in written
agreement. 

8. 
       
       Non-Disparagement.   Neither party shall make any remarks or issue any communication,
written or otherwise, that disparages or derogates, or encourages any adverse action against
the other party or any of its affiliates, officers, directors, employees or agents, provided
that this paragraph shall not preclude Contractor from testifying truthfully under oath,
pursuant to subpoena or otherwise, as to his first-hand knowledge, or from providing his
first-hand knowledge to any governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory body or agency with
jurisdiction over PGIC s activities. 

9. 
       
       Noninterference with Business   .  During the Term of this Agreement and for a period of
two (2) years immediately following termination of this Agreement, Contractor agrees not to
solicit or induce any employee or independent contractor, or other person(s) to terminate or
breach, or cause to terminate or breach any employment relationship, contractual relationship
or other relationship with PGIC. 

6

10. 
       
       Contractor s Representations, Warranties And Indemnification  . 

A. 
       
       Contractor s Warranties  . In addition to other representations and warranties
provided for herein, Contractor represents and warrants to PGIC that: 

1) 
       
     Contractor is the sole and exclusive supplier of the Work performed by
Contractor; 

2) 
       
     With respect to the Work, and any materials pertaining thereto that Contractor
discloses, uses, assigns and/or delivers in the performance of its obligations
hereunder, Contractor has the right to make such disclosure, use, and/or delivery
thereof without liability to any third party; 

3) 
       
     The performance of the terms of this Agreement and of Contractor s obligation
hereunder will not breach any separate agreement by which Contractor is bound; 

4) 
       
     Contractor has not previously granted any rights in and to the Work to any
third party that are inconsistent with any of PGIC s licenses and/or rights hereunder; 

5) 
       
     Contractor has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to
fulfill its obligations hereunder; 

6) 
       
     Contractor is legally competent to sign this Agreement; 

7) 
       
     Contractor warrants and represents to PGIC that all acts, duties and
obligations required of it under this Agreement shall be performed in good faith; and 

8) 
       
     Contractor agrees to fully cooperate with any legitimate investigation of
Company and to produce any materials or documents requested by regulatory authorities. 

9) 
       
     Contractor hereby agrees to employ only persons who are previously approved by
PGIC in writing and who are legally authorized to work in the jurisdictions where Work
is to be performed and to have appropriate employment authorization forms, if required,
for each person employed by it. 

B. 
       
       Contractor s Indemnification   .  Contractor agrees to indemnify and hold harmless
PGIC and its customers, affiliates and/or sub-licensees and end-users from and against any
and all claims, losses, liabilities, damages, expenses and costs (including attorneys and
defense costs) and judgments that may be asserted against PGIC that result from the acts or
omissions of Contractor, Contractor s employees, if any, and Contractor s agents, and/or
which result from a breach of any of the warranties expressly set forth in this Agreement,
or incurred in the settlement or avoidance of any such matter. As a condition to
indemnification, PGIC will promptly inform Contractor in writing of the assertion of any
such claim, demand or suit, and the parties will cooperate with and assist one another with
respect to the defense and/or settlement of such matter (in a manner consistent with the
parties  respective confidentiality obligations and desired preservation of
attorney/client, work product and other privileges). Contractor hereby confirms that
Contractor will not agree to the settlement of any such claim, demand or suit prior to
judgment thereon by any court of competent jurisdiction unless PGIC s written consent is
first obtained, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. 

11. 
       
       PGIC S Warranties, Representation and Indemnification   :  

A. 
       
       PGIC S Warranties   :  PGIC represents and warrants to Contractor that: 

1) 
       
     PGIC possesses full power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to
fulfill its obligations hereunder; 

2) 
       
     The performance of the terms of this Agreement and of PGIC s obligations
hereunder will not breach any separate agreement by which PGIC is bound; 

3) 
       
     PGIC warrants and represents to Contractor that all acts, duties and
obligations required of it under this Agreement shall be performed in good faith. 

B. 
       
       PGIC S Indemnity   :  PGIC agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Contractor from
and against 

7

any and all claims, losses, liabilities, damages, expenses and costs (including attorneys
fees and defense costs) which result from a breach of any of the warranties expressly set
forth in this Agreement, or incurred in the settlement or avoidance of any such matter, or
which are incurred in the course of PGIC s activities in connection with this Agreement
unless such matters are the fault of Contractor. As a condition to indemnification,
Contractor will promptly inform PGIC in writing of the assertion of any such claim, demand
or suit, and the parties will cooperate with and assist one another with respect to the
defense and/or settlement of such matter (consistent with the parties  respective
confidentiality obligations and preservation of attorney/client, work product and other
privileges). PGIC hereby confirms that it will not agree to the settlement of any such
claim, demand or suit prior to judgment thereon by any court of competent jurisdiction
unless Contractor s consent is first obtained, which consent will not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed. 

A. 
       
       Governing Law   :  This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the United States and the State of Nevada applied to agreements entered
into and to be performed entirely within Nevada between Nevada residents. Contractor and
PGIC further agree that for purposes of venue and jurisdiction, that any disputes, issues,
enforcement and/or all other matters concerning the Agreement will be determined in Clark
County, State of Nevada, United States of America. The parties expressly waive any other
jurisdiction to which they might be entitled as a result of their present or future
domicile or for any other reason. 

B. 
       
       Compliance with Laws   :  In the performance of the Work, Contractor shall comply
with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to all
requirements and provisions of the laws and regulations of the United States, the States
and subdivisions thereof in which PGIC or any of PGIC s subsidiaries or affiliates
(regardless of when or how formed) carry on their business and all general rules,
regulations and ethical standards of national, State and local agencies and regulatory and
advisory groups having jurisdiction over any business of PGIC or any of PGIC s subsidiaries
or affiliates (regardless of when or how formed) as they exist now and as same may be
amended from time to time. 

C. 
       
       Regulatory Matters   :  PGIC, its parent corporation and certain related entities
are licensed by or otherwise subject to the authority of various casino and gaming
regulatory agencies ( Regulator ). PGIC has adopted a regulatory compliance policy, and
Contractor agrees to provide PGIC with such documentation, information and assurances
regarding itself, any principal employees, brokers, agents or others where applicable as
may be necessary in order for PGIC to comply with PGIC s regulatory compliance policy and
with the request of any Regulator. The foregoing shall be a material obligation of
Contractor hereunder. 

D. 
       
       Injuries   :  Contractor acknowledges Contractor s obligation to obtain
appropriate insurance coverage for the benefit of Contractor (and Contractor s employees,
if any). Contractor waives any rights to recovery from PGIC for any injuries that
Contractor (and/or Contractor s employees) may sustain while performing services under this
Agreement and that are a result of the negligence of Contractor or Contractor s employees. 

E. 
       
       Entire Agreement / Modification   :  This Agreement, including all Exhibits to
this Agreement, constitute the entire agreement between the parties relating to this
subject matter and supersedes all prior or simultaneous representations, discussions,
negotiations, and agreements, whether written or oral. Any and all amendments, changes,
revisions, and/or modifications to this Agreement must be in writing signed by Contractor
and PGIC. 

8

F. 
       
       Waiver   :  No term or provision hereof will be considered waived by either party,
and no breach excused by either party, unless such waiver or consent is in writing signed
on behalf of the party against whom the waiver is asserted. No consent by either party to,
or waiver of, a breach by either party, whether express or implied, will constitute a
consent to, waiver of, or excuse of any other, different, or subsequent breach by either
party. 

G. 
       
       Successors and Assigns   :  Contractor may not assign its rights or obligations
arising under this Agreement without PGIC s prior written consent. PGIC may assign its
rights and obligations under this Agreement. This Agreement will be for the benefit of
PGIC s successors and assigns, and will be binding on Contractor s heirs, legal
representatives and permitted assignees. 

H. 
       
       Legal Fees   :  If any dispute arises between the parties with respect to the
matters covered by this Agreement which leads to a proceeding to resolve such dispute, the
prevailing party in such proceeding shall be entitled to receive its reasonable attorneys 
fees, expert witness fees and out-of-pocket costs incurred in connection with such
proceeding, in addition to any other relief to which it may be entitled, including but not
limited to equitable relief such as restraining orders and injunctions. 

I. 
       
       Notices   :  All notices, requests and other communications required to be given
under this Agreement must be in writing, and must be mailed by registered or certified
mail, postage prepaid and return receipt requested, or delivered by hand to the party to
whom such notice is required or permitted to be given. Any such notice will be considered
to have been given when received, or if mailed, five (5) business days after it was mailed,
as evidenced by the postmark. The mailing address for notice to either party will be the
address shown on the face page of this Agreement. Either party may change its mailing
address by notice as provided by this Section. 

J. 
       
       Severability   :  Should any term, condition, or provision herein be determined to
be unenforceable, such determination shall not impair, limit, or otherwise affect the
enforceability of the remaining terms of this Agreement. 

K. 
       
      Waiver.  Failure of either party to insist on strict performance shall not constitute a
waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement or a waiver of any default of the other
party. 

L. 
       
       Survival   :  The following provisions shall survive termination of this
Agreement: Section IV, Section 5, Section 6, and Section 9. 

MIKOHN GAMING
CORPORATION ,  a  Nevada   corporation , doing business as 

Michael F. Dreitzer,   an individual  

PROGRESSIVE GAMING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION  

By:

/s/ Michael A. Sicuro

By:

/s/ Michael F. Dreitzer

Name:

Michael A. Sicuro

Name:

Michael F. Dreitzer 

Title:

Executive Vice President   CFO

Date: 

Date:

9

</EX-10.19>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 a18352exv21w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

exv21w1 

EXHIBIT 21.1 

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

The following lists the subsidiaries of the registrant:

State /Country  

Subsidiary / dba  
       
      of Incorporation  

EndX Group, Ltd.

England and Wales 

EndX Inc.

Nevada 

EndX Ltd.

England and Wales 

EndX Pty. Ltd.

Australia 

Games of Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

MGC, Inc.

Nevada 

Mikohn Europe B.V.

The Netherlands 

Mikohn Gaming Australasia Pty. Ltd.

Australia 

Mikohn Holdings, Inc.

Nevada 

Mikohn International, Inc.

Nevada 

Mikohn Nevada

Nevada 

P S Leasing Corporation, Inc.

Nevada 

P S Leasing LLC

Louisiana 

PGIC Holdings, Ltd.

England and Wales 

Progressive Games, Inc.

Delaware 

Viking Merger Subsidiary, LLC

Delaware 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 a18352exv23w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

exv23w1 

EXHIBIT 23.1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

Progressive Gaming International Corporation 
Las Vegas, Nevada

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Prospectus constituting a part of
the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (File Nos. 33-73506, 333-07441, 333-30525, 333-30605 and
333-120327) and on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-69450, 333-110623, 333-127977 and 333-129443) of
Progressive Gaming International Corporation of our reports dated
March 28, 2006 relating to the
consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of Progressive Gaming International
Corporation s internal control over financial reporting, which included an adverse opinion on the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting because of the existence of a material
weakness, which appear in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K.

/s/ BDO Seidman, LLP 
Los Angeles, California 
March 28, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 a18352exv31w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 302 

I, Russel H. McMeekin, certify that:

1. I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Progressive Gaming
International Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in exchange act rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known
to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
such internal control over financial reporting to be designed
under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors:

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which
are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability
to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
March 31, 2006

By:

/s/ RUSSEL H. MCMEEKIN 

Russel H. McMeekin 

Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 a18352exv31w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 302 

I, Michael A. Sicuro, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Progressive
Gaming International Corporation;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in exchange act rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such
disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known
to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused
such internal control over financial reporting to be designed
under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors:

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal control over financial reporting which
are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability
to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
March 31, 2006

By:

/s/ MICHAEL A. SICURO 

Michael A. Sicuro 

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 a18352exv32w1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906 

I, Russel
H. McMeekin, Chief Executive Officer of Progressive Gaming
International Corporation (the  Registrant ),
do hereby certify in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to the best of my knowledge:

1. The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Registrant, to which this certification is attached as
an exhibit (the  Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Registrant.

Date:
March 31, 2006

By:

/s/ RUSSEL H. MCMEEKIN 

Russel H. McMeekin 

Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 a18352exv32w2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

exv32w2 

EXHIBIT 32.2 

CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906 

I, Michael
A. Sicuro, Chief Financial Officer of Progressive Gaming
International Corporation (the  Registrant ),
do hereby certify in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to the best of my knowledge:

1. The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Registrant, to which this certification is attached as
an exhibit (the  Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Registrant.

Date:
March 31, 2006

By:

/s/ MICHAEL A. SICURO 

Michael A. Sicuro 

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32.2>

