<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_95779_0000910680-06-000271_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>310468</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>246254</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>757</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>20</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000910680-06-000271.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331113703
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000910680-06-000271
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Swank, Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000095779
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	LEATHER & LEATHER PRODUCTS [3100]
		IRS NUMBER:				041886990
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05354
		FILM NUMBER:		06726291

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		90 PARK AVENUE, 13TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10016
		BUSINESS PHONE:		508-212-2600

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		656 JOSEPH WARNER BOULEVARD
		CITY:			TAUNTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02780

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SWANK, INC.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20040618

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SWANK INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 TVZtyRv53k0RNm1YyILiu7UofWWIz8BiZ5ckIWhMVCl12AycB5cxL94cpxcdin8/
 KNxHnqykdvtimykRq8+MYA==

 0000910680-06-000271.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 f10k123105.txt
 ANNUAL REPORT
 
                                  UNITED STATES

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

[X]   ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005

                                       OR

[_]      TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE  SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM _______________ TO _____________

                          COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-5354

                                   SWANK, INC.
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE                                                 04-1886990
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)          (IRS Employer Identification Number)

90 PARK AVENUE
                       NEW YORK, NEW YORK                                                10016
              (Address of principal executive offices)                                 (Zip code)

    Registrant's telephone number, including area code:                         (212) 867-2600

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:                 None

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:                 Common Stock, $.10 par value

Indicate  by check  mark if the  Registrant  is a  well-known  seasoned
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes     No  x .
                                                             ---    ---

         Indicate  by  check  mark if the  Registrant  is not  required  to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  Yes     No  x .
                                                         ---    ---

         Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes  x  No    .
                                                ---    ---

          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of the  Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. / x /

        Indicate by check mark  whether the  registrant  is a large  accelerated
filer,  an accelerated  filer,  or a  non-accelerated  filer.  See definition of
"accelerated  filer and large  accelerated  filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.

Large accelerated filer _____ Accelerated Filer ______

Non-accelerated filer x
                     ---

         Indicate by check mark whether the  Registrant  is a shell  company (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes     No  x .
                                        ---    ---

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held
by non-affiliates  computed by reference to the price at which the common equity
was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common  equity,  as of
the close of business on June 30, 2005: $8,598,610

         The number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant's classes of
common stock,  as of the latest  practicable  date:  5,756,844  shares of Common
Stock as of the close of business on February 28, 2006.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

                                      None.

                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.

         In order to keep  stockholders  and  investors  informed  of the future
plans of Swank,  Inc. (which is referred to  alternatively  in this Form 10-K as
the "Company," "we," "us," and/or "our"), this Form 10-K contains and, from time
to time, other reports and oral or written  statements issued by us may contain,
forward-looking statements concerning,  among other things, our future plans and
objectives  that are or may be deemed to be  "forward-looking  statements."  Our
ability to do this has been fostered by the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995 which  provides a "safe  harbor" for  forward-looking  statements to
encourage  companies  to  provide  prospective  information  so  long  as  those
statements  are  accompanied  by meaningful  cautionary  statements  identifying
important  factors that could cause  actual  results to differ  materially  from
those discussed in the statement. Our forward-looking  statements are subject to
a number of known and unknown  risks and  uncertainties  that could cause actual
results,  performance or achievements to differ  materially from those described
or implied in the  forward-looking  statements,  including,  but not limited to,
general  economic  and  business  conditions,  competition  in  the  accessories
markets;  potential  changes in  customer  spending;  acceptance  of our product
offerings and designs; the level of inventories maintained by our customers; the
variability of consumer  spending  resulting  from changes in domestic  economic
activity;  a highly promotional retail environment;  any significant  variations
between actual amounts and the amounts estimated for those matters identified as
our  critical  accounting  estimates  as well as  other  significant  accounting
estimates made in the preparation of our financial statements; and the impact of
the  hostilities in the Middle East and the  possibility of hostilities in other
geographic areas as well as other  geopolitical  concerns.  Accordingly,  actual
results may differ  materially  from such  forward-looking  statements.  You are
urged to consider all such factors. In light of the uncertainty inherent in such
forward-looking  statements,  you should not  consider  their  inclusion to be a
representation that such forward-looking  matters will be achieved. We assume no
obligation  for updating any such  forward-looking  statements to reflect actual
results,  changes in  assumptions  or changes in other  factors  affecting  such
forward-looking statements.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.          BUSINESS.

General

          The Company was  incorporated on April 17, 1936. We are engaged in the
importation, sale and distribution of men's accessories under the names "Kenneth
Cole", "Tommy Hilfiger",  "Nautica",  "Geoffrey Beene",  "Claiborne",  "Guess?",
"Ted Baker",  "Donald Trump",  "City of London",  "Pierre Cardin",  and "Field &
Stream", among others.

Products

         Men's leather  accessories,  principally belts, wallets and other small
leather goods including billfolds,  key cases, card holders and other items, and
men's jewelry,  principally cuff links, tie klips,  chains and tacs,  bracelets,
neck  chains,  vest  chains,  collar  pins,  key  rings  and  money  clips,  are
distributed  under the names  "Geoffrey  Beene",  "Claiborne",  "Kenneth  Cole",
"Tommy Hilfiger",  "Nautica",  "Guess?", "Ted Baker", "City of London", "Swank",
and "Field & Stream".  We also distribute jewelry under the name "Donald Trump",
suspenders under the names "Geoffrey Beene",  "Claiborne",  "Tommy Hilfiger" and
"Pierre Cardin",  and men's leather  accessories  under the name "Pierre Cardin"
and for customers' private labels.

                                       2

As is customary in the men's fashion accessories industry, substantial
percentages of our sales and earnings occur in the months of September,  October
and  November,  during  which we make  significant  shipments of our products to
retailers for sale during the holiday season. Our bank borrowings  typically are
at a peak  during  these  months  corresponding  with our peak  working  capital
requirements.

         In  addition to product,  pricing and terms of payment,  our  customers
generally  consider one or more factors,  such as the availability of electronic
order processing and the timeliness and completeness of shipments,  as important
in maintaining  ongoing  relationships.  In addition,  from time to time we will
allow customers to return merchandise in order to achieve proper stock balances.
We record a provision for  estimated  returns as an offset to gross sales at the
time  merchandise  is shipped based on historical  returns  experience,  general
retail sales trends, and individual customer  experience.  These factors,  among
others,  result in an increase in our  inventory  levels during the Fall selling
season  (July  through  December)  in order to meet  customer  imposed  delivery
requirements.  We believe  that these  practices  are  substantially  consistent
throughout the fashion accessories industry.

Sales and Distribution

         Our customers are primarily major  retailers  within the United States.
In fiscal 2005, net sales to our three largest customers,  Federated  Department
Stores,  Inc.  ("Federated"),  Kohl's Department Stores and TJX Companies,  Inc.
("TJX"),  accounted for approximately  23%, 10%, and 10%,  respectively,  of our
consolidated net sales. In fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003,  Federated accounted for
approximately 23% and 25%, respectively, and TJX accounted for approximately 10%
and 11%,  respectively,  of consolidated net sales. No other customer  accounted
for more than 10% of  consolidated  net sales during fiscal years 2005,  2004 or
2003.  During 2005,  Federated  completed its  acquisition of the May Department
Stores  Company  and  accordingly,  these  statistics  reflect  our sales to the
combined company.  Exports to foreign countries  accounted for approximately 8%,
7% and 4% of  consolidated  net  sales in  fiscal  years  2005,  2004 and  2003,
respectively.

          At March 16, 2006, we had unfilled orders of approximately  $7,085,000
compared with  approximately  $5,478,000 at March 16, 2005.  The increase in our
order backlog is primarily due to additional  orders that have been received for
shipment during our spring selling season, particularly for certain new belt and
jewelry merchandise programs that were introduced during the fall of 2005. These
increases  were offset in part by a decrease in orders for our personal  leather
goods collections due mainly to unusually large orders that were received during
spring 2005 associated with the launch of new merchandise and packaging concepts
for one of our branded programs. In the ordinary course of business,  the dollar
amount of unfilled orders at a particular  point in time is affected by a number
of factors, including manufacturing schedules,  timely shipment of goods, which,
in turn, may be dependent on the  requirements  of customers,  and the timing of
placement  by  our  customers  of  orders  from  year-to-year.   Accordingly,  a
comparison of backlog from period to period is not  necessarily  meaningful  and
may not be indicative of future sales patterns or shipments.

          Approximately 44 salespeople and district  managers are engaged in the
sale of our products  working out of sales  offices  located in New York, NY and
Atlanta,  GA. In addition,  at December 31, 2005 we sold certain of our products
through 8 company-owned factory outlet stores in 6 states.

Manufacturing

          We no longer  manufacture  the products we sell,  which are,  instead,
sourced from third-party vendors. Historically, we manufactured and/or assembled
our costume jewelry products at our plant in Attleboro, Massachusetts and at the
facility of our former 65% owned subsidiary,  Joyas y Cueros de Costa Rica, S.A.
("Joyas y Cueros")  located in Cartago,  Costa Rica.  However,  we  discontinued
manufacturing  operations  at Joyas y Cueros  and in  Massachusetts  in 2001 and
2000,  respectively.  In addition,  during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we
ceased manufacturing  operations at our former belt and suspender  manufacturing
facility located in Norwalk, Connecticut. We refer to Footnote I of the Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements and Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations  for  additional  information
concerning the cessation of the Norwalk manufacturing operations.

          We purchase substantially all of our small leather goods,  principally
wallets,  from a single supplier in India.  Unexpected disruption of this source
of supply could have an adverse  effect on our small leather  goods  business in
the short-term  depending upon our inventory  position and the seasonal shipping
requirements at that time. However,  we have identified  alternative sources for
small  leather  goods which could be utilized  within  several  months.  We also
purchase

                                       3

finished  belts and other  accessories  from a number of suppliers in the United
States and abroad.  We believe that alternative  suppliers are readily available
for substantially all such purchased items.

Advertising Media and Promotion

          Substantial  expenditures on advertising and promotion are an integral
part of our business.  We spent  approximately  3.8% of net sales on advertising
and promotion in 2005, of which  approximately  2.1% was for advertising  media,
principally in national  consumer  magazines,  trade  publications,  newspapers,
radio  and  television.   The  remaining   expenditures   were  for  cooperative
advertising, fixtures, displays and point-of-sale materials.

Competition

          The  businesses  in which we are  engaged are highly  competitive.  We
compete with, among others, Cipriani,  Salant, Randa Accessories,  Fossil, Tandy
Brands  Accessories,  Inc.,  and retail  private label  programs in men's belts;
Tandy  Brands  Accessories,  Inc.,  Cipriani,  Fossil,   Mundi-Westport,   Randa
Accessories and retail private label programs in small leather goods;  and David
Donahue in men's jewelry. Our ability to continue to compete will depend largely
upon our  ability to create new  designs and  products,  to meet the  increasing
service and technology requirements of our customers and to offer consumers high
quality merchandise at popular prices.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

         We own the  rights to  various  patents,  trademarks,  trade  names and
copyrights  and have  exclusive  licenses  in the  United  States  and,  in some
instances,  in certain other  jurisdictions,  for the  distribution  and sale of
men's leather  accessories  and costume  jewelry under the names "Kenneth Cole",
"Tommy Hilfiger",  "Nautica",  "Geoffrey  Beene",  "Claiborne",  "Guess?",  "Ted
Baker",  "City of London", and "Field & Stream". We also hold exclusive licenses
to distribute  men's leather  accessories  under the name "Pierre Cardin" and an
exclusive  license to  distribute  jewelry  under the name  "Donald  Trump." Our
"Kenneth Cole",  "Tommy Hilfiger",  "Nautica",  "Geoffrey  Beene",  "Claiborne",
"Guess?",  "Ted Baker",  "City of London",  "Pierre Cardin",  "Donald Trump" and
"Field  &  Stream"  licenses  collectively  may be  considered  material  to our
business.  The  "Pierre  Cardin",   "Geoffrey  Beene",  "Claiborne"  and  "Tommy
Hilfiger" agreements also permit us to distribute and sell suspenders. We do not
believe that our business is materially  dependent on any one license agreement.
The "City of London"  license  provides  for  percentage  royalty  payments  not
exceeding 5% of net sales. The "Pierre Cardin", "Field & Stream" and "Claiborne"
licenses provide for percentage  royalty payments not exceeding 6% of net sales.
The  "Geoffrey  Beene",  "Tommy  Hilfiger" and  "Nautica"  licenses  provide for
percentage  royalty  payments not exceeding 7% of net sales. The "Kenneth Cole",
"Ted Baker" and "Guess?"  licenses  provide for percentage  royalty payments not
exceeding 8% of net sales.  The "Donald Trump"  license  provides for percentage
royalty payments not exceeding 9% of net sales. Our license agreements generally
specify minimum  royalties and minimum  advertising and promotion  expenditures.
The "Guess?" jewelry and "Field & Stream" licenses expire December 31, 2006; our
"Tommy Hilfiger"  license expires December 31, 2007; the "Claiborne",  "Geoffrey
Beene",  "Guess?"  personal  leather goods and "City of London"  licenses expire
June 30, 2008; the  "Nautica",  "Kenneth  Cole",  "Ted Baker" and "Donald Trump"
licenses  expire  December 31, 2008;  and our "Pierre  Cardin"  licenses  expire
December 31, 2009. We regularly assess the status of our license  agreements and
anticipate  renewing those contracts scheduled to expire in 2006, subject to the
negotiation of terms and conditions  mutually  satisfactory to our licensors and
us.

Employees

         We have  approximately  292 employees,  of whom  approximately  143 are
warehouse and distribution employees. None of these employees are represented by
labor  unions  and  we  believe  our  relationship  with  our  employees  to  be
satisfactory.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.

         The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection  with
your evaluation of our business. Any of the following risks could materially and
adversely affect our business,  operating  results or financial  condition,  and
could  cause  actual  results  or  events  to  differ   materially   from  those
anticipated.

RISKS RELATING TO THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE COMPETE

4

OUR BUSINESS IS INFLUENCED BY GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.

         We have no control  over the  economy  in  general or upon the  overall
level of consumer spending.  Our customers  generally  anticipate and respond to
adverse changes or perceptions of changes in economic  conditions by limiting or
canceling  purchases  of our  products  in order to  reduce  their  inventories.
Similarly,  negative  economic trends, a depression and other similar events may
depress the level of consumer  confidence and consumer spending in general,  and
on our products  specifically.  As a result,  any substantial  deterioration  in
general  economic  conditions  or trends,  increases in energy  costs,  interest
rates,  conflicts  around the world,  acts of nature,  or political or terrorist
events that weaken  consumer  confidence and spending could reduce our sales and
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE MEN'S' ACCESSORIES INDUSTRY.

         The men's' accessories business is highly competitive.  We compete with
a large  number  of both  domestic  and  foreign  manufacturers,  designers  and
distributors  of  branded  products,  as  well as  private  label  programs  for
retailers.  Many of these manufacturers,  designers,  distributors and retailers
may be larger and have greater resources than we do. We believe that our ability
to effectively compete depends on a number of factors, including the following:

o maintaining and expanding our group of highly recognizable  licensed brands; o
designing  and  developing  products  and  packaging  that have strong and broad
appeal to consumers;  o pricing  products  appropriately  and  providing  strong
marketing  support for them;  o meeting the  service  and  technology  interface
requirements  of our  customers;  o  anticipating  and  responding  to  changing
customer tastes in a timely manner; and o obtaining access to retail outlets and
sufficient floor space for our products.

WE NEED TO MONITOR AND MEET CONTINUALLY CHANGING CONSUMER PREFERENCES.

         Consumer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly.  We believe that our
success  depends  in large  part on  anticipating  and  responding  to  changing
consumer tastes and fashion trends in a timely manner. If we misjudge the market
for our  product  lines,  we may be faced  with a  significant  amount of unsold
products, or a large number of returns of products from our customers,  which in
each case could have an adverse effect on us.

RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS

WE SOURCE ALL OF OUR PRODUCTS.

         We no longer operate manufacturing facilities, and as a result, we rely
on third  parties  for the  manufacture  of our  products.  The failure of these
parties to fulfill orders,  deliver goods in a timely manner, or increase prices
could all adversely affect our business. In addition, we purchase  substantially
all of our small leather goods,  principally  wallets,  from a single  supplier.
While we have identified  alternative  suppliers of these goods which we believe
we would be able to utilize within several months,  unexpected disruption of our
present source of supply could have an adverse effect on our small leather goods
business in the short-term depending upon our inventory position and on seasonal
shipping requirements at that time.

WE FACE RISKS INHERENT WITH SOURCING OUR PRODUCTS OVERSEAS.

         Substantially  all of our products are manufactured  outside the United
States, and our business is subject to risks of doing business abroad. The costs
of  importing  products may be adversely  affected by taxes,  tariffs,  customs,
duties and transportation costs, whether as a result of higher prices for energy
or other commodities.  Our ability to continue to purchase our products overseas
is also subject to political  instability in countries where our contractors and
suppliers are located,  and the imposition of regulation and quotas  relating to
imports,  labor  disputes,   severe  weather,  or  increased  homeland  security
requirements  in the United  States  and in other  countries.  We also  import a
substantial  portion of our products from China.  The recent  outbreaks of Avian
flu, or a recurrence of SARS, having an impact on China or other countries where
our vendors are located could also have a negative  impact on their  operations,
including  delaying or  preventing  shipments.  The  occurrence  of any of these
events,  which are  beyond  our  control  and we are  unable to  predict,

                                       5

could  adversely  affect  our  ability  to import  our  products  at  current or
increased levels or at all from certain countries and could harm our business.

OUR LICENSES ARE IMPORTANT TO US.

         We are the licensee  under a number of licenses  with both domestic and
foreign designers and others. A substantial  portion of our revenues derive from
the sale of products under trademarks and tradenames which we license from third
parties, and we believe that licenses as a whole are material to our operations.
While we believe we can replace our licenses  with others that would  provide us
with the ability to sell product lines under new trademarks and tradenames,  the
loss of our licenses,  or any number of them comprising a significant portion of
our business,  could have an adverse effect, at least in the short-term,  on the
results of our operations.

WE ARE  DEPENDENT ON A LIMITED  NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS  FOR A LARGE  PORTION OF OUR
REVENUES.

          Net sales to our four largest  customers  totaled 49% of our total net
sales in fiscal  2005 and  totaled  44% of our  total net sales in fiscal  2004.
Whether because of economic  conditions,  a change of the focus of products they
purchase  or  other  strategic   shifts  in  their  business,   their  financial
difficulties, or otherwise, a decision by one of our largest customers to reduce
its purchases from us, to reduce floor space or advertising of our products,  to
require  increased  allowances or reduced prices,  or to take other action,  may
adversely affect our business and financial condition. Further, consolidation in
the retail industry,  such as the business  combination of two of our customers,
Federated  Department Stores, Inc. and May Department Stores Company,  Inc., may
result  in store  closures;  increased  customer  leverage  over  its  suppliers
resulting  in lower  product  prices or margins;  tighter  inventory  management
resulting in lower retail  inventory  levels and  decreased  orders to us; and a
greater potential exposure to credit risk, all of which may adversely affect our
business.

OUR  FAILURE TO RETAIN  OUR  SENIOR  MANAGEMENT  AND OTHER KEY  PERSONNEL  COULD
ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

         Our  business  depends  in  large  part  on the  personal  efforts  and
abilities  of our  senior  executive  officers,  particularly  John  Tulin,  our
President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as other key personnel. If any of
these  individuals  become  unable or  unwilling  to continue  in their  present
positions, our business could be adversely affected.

WE HAVE A RECENT HISTORY OF UNPROFITABLE OPERATIONS.

         From fiscal 2000 through fiscal 2003, we were not profitable.  Starting
in 2000 we closed our domestic  manufacturing plants and began moving all of the
manufacturing of our products overseas.  We also closed and terminated the lease
on  our  former  South  Norwalk,  Connecticut  facility,  sold  certain  assets,
including  those  associated  with our former  women's  division,  substantially
reduced the number of our  employees,  and  implemented  numerous cost reduction
strategies, all in an effort to return Swank to profitability.  Our efforts have
been  successful to date, and we were profitable in fiscal 2004 and we increased
our  profitability in 2005.  However,  our financial  condition remains somewhat
leveraged,  and our  financial  flexibility  to respond to  developments  in our
industry  may be less than that of certain of our  competitors.  We believe  our
continued profitability depends, at least in part, on our ability to effectively
monitor and control  our cost  structure  consistent  with  anticipated  revenue
levels.

OUR  REVOLVING   CREDIT   FACILITY   CONTAINS   FINANCIAL  AND  OTHER   COVENANT
RESTRICTIONS.

         Our  revolving  credit  facility   contains   financial  and  operating
covenants,   including  a  minimum  cash  flow  covenant,  as  well  as  certain
limitations  on our ability to sell all or  substantially  all of our assets and
engage  in  mergers,  consolidations  and  certain  acquisitions.  In  addition,
advances  under the  revolving  credit  facility are subject to  borrowing  base
requirements  based on our inventory  and accounts  receivable  levels.  Many of
these  covenants are  customary for companies  like ours which borrow money from
banks and financial  institutions.  Failure to comply with any of the covenants,
which  could  result  from,  among  other  things,  changes  in our  results  of
operations or changes in general economic conditions, might result in our lender
asking  for  the  repayment  of  its  loans  to  us  sooner  than  is  currently
contemplated by our agreement.

RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK

THERE MAY BE A LIMITED TRADING MARKET FOR OUR STOCK.

6

More than 50% of the issued and outstanding  shares of our Common Stock
are  presently  held  by The  New  Swank,  Inc.  Retirement  Plan,  and  another
approximately 10% by our executive officers and directors.  In addition,  shares
of our Common Stock are not listed on any securities exchange or on an automated
dealer  quotation  system and,  instead,  we rely on the interest of  securities
dealers in making a market in our shares.  Accordingly,  from time to time there
may be a limited trading market for our shares.

PROVISIONS IN OUR CERTIFICATE OF  INCORPORATION,  BY-LAWS,  DELAWARE LAW AND OUR
"POISON PILL" MAY DELAY OR PREVENT AN ACQUISITION OF SWANK BY A THIRD PARTY.

         Our certificate of  incorporation  and by-laws and Delaware law contain
provisions  that could make it more  difficult  for a third party to acquire us.
Our certificate of incorporation  permits the Board of Directors,  to establish,
and to set the  preferences,  rights  and  other  terms  of  various  series  of
preferred stock (commonly known as "blank check  preferred").  Accordingly,  the
Board could  establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of
delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction with, or a change of control of,
Swank. In addition, under our by-laws, the Board of Directors is classified into
three  classes,  with  each  class  being  elected  for a term of  three  years.
Accordingly,  with only  one-third of the members of the Board being  elected at
any  annual  meeting  of  stockholders,  any third  party  wanting to change the
composition  of the Board of Directors  through a proxy contest would need to do
so over time.

         On October 26, 1999, we declared a dividend  distribution to buy shares
of a special series of preferred stock to the holder of each  outstanding  share
of our common stock. The rights may be exercised if, with certain exceptions,  a
person or group  acquires  or obtains  the right to  acquire  15% or more of our
common  stock.  Each right,  if not redeemed by the Company,  would  entitle the
holder of each share of our common stock to buy one  one-hundredth of a share of
preferred stock and, in certain  circumstances,  shares of our common stock at a
substantial discount. While this "poison pill" need not prevent us from entering
into consensual  transactions,  it may have the effect of preventing or delaying
unsolicited acquisition or takeover proposals.

         In  addition,  Delaware  law  contains  certain  provisions  that could
prevent the  acquisition  of the Company by a third party if the  transaction is
not  approved  by the  Board  of  Directors,  even if the  transaction  would be
beneficial to most stockholders. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation
Law generally  prohibits  stockholders  owning in excess of 15% of the Company's
outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with the Company for a period
of time  after  acquiring  such  shares  without  the  approval  of the Board of
Directors.

                                    * * * * *

         This list of risk factors,  together with the note set forth above Part
I of this Form 10-K  under  the  caption  "Forward  Looking  Statements"  is not
exhaustive.  For  example,  there  can be no  assurance  that we have  correctly
identified and  appropriately  assessed all factors  affecting our business,  or
that the publicly  available and other information with respect to these matters
is complete and correct.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known
to us or that we currently  believe to be immaterial  also may adversely  impact
our  business.  Should any risks or  uncertainties  develop into actual  events,
these  developments  could  have  material  adverse  effects  on  our  business,
financial  condition,  and results of operations.  We assume no obligation  (and
specifically  disclaim any such  obligation) to update these Risk Factors or any
other  forward-looking  statements contained in this Form 10-K to reflect actual
results,  changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking
statements.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

         Not Applicable.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

          Our main administrative  offices and distribution center are presently
located in a leased warehouse building containing  approximately  242,000 square
feet in Taunton,  Massachusetts.  This facility is used in the  distribution  of
substantially  all of our products.  In addition,  one of our factory  stores is
located within the Taunton  location.  The lease for these  premises  expires in
2011.  The warehouse  facility in Taunton is equipped with modern  machinery and
equipment, substantially all of which is owned by us, with the remainder leased.

                                       7

Our executive offices and national,  international, and regional sales
offices are located in leased premises at 90 Park Avenue, New York, New York. On
July 23, 2001 we entered into a sublease agreement with K&M Associates, L.P. for
approximately  43% of our space  under  lease at 90 Park  Avenue.  The lease and
sublease of such premises  both expire in 2010. A regional  sales office is also
located in leased premises in Scottsdale,  Arizona. The lease for the Scottsdale
office expires in 2006.  Collectively,  these two offices contain  approximately
22,000 square feet.

         We also own a three-story  building  containing  approximately  193,000
square feet on a seven-acre site in Attleboro,  Massachusetts.  Until 2000, this
facility had been used to manufacture  and/or assemble men's and women's costume
jewelry  products  and,  until  December  2004,  housed our main  administrative
offices, which were re-located to Taunton, MA.

          Through fiscal 2003,  men's belts and suspenders were  manufactured in
leased premises  located in Norwalk,  Connecticut  consisting of a manufacturing
plant  and  office  space  in  a  126,500  square  foot  building,   located  on
approximately  seven  and  one-half  acres.  In 2003,  we  ceased  manufacturing
operations in Norwalk and the lease for these premises was terminated during the
first quarter of fiscal 2004.

         We also  presently  operate  seven  factory  outlet store  locations in
addition to the outlet store in Taunton, Massachusetts as described above. These
stores  have  leases  with  terms  not in  excess  of three  years  and  contain
approximately 13,000 square feet in the aggregate.

         We believe our  properties and machinery and equipment are adequate for
the conduct of our businesses.

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

          (a) On June 7,  1990,  we  received  notice  from  the  United  States
Environmental  Protection Agency ("EPA") that we, along with fifteen others, had
been  identified as a Potentially  Responsible  Party ("PRP") in connection with
the  release  of   hazardous   substances   at  a  Superfund   site  located  in
Massachusetts.  This notice does not constitute the commencement of a proceeding
against  us  nor   necessarily   indicate  that  a  proceeding   against  us  is
contemplated.   We,   along  with  six  other   PRP's,   have  entered  into  an
Administrative  Order by Consent  pursuant  to which,  inter  alia,  we and they
undertook to conduct a remedial  investigation/feasibility  study (the  "RI/FS")
with respect to the alleged contamination at the site.

          The remedial  investigation of the site has been completed and the EPA
has  prepared  its  Record of  Decision.  The  Massachusetts  Superfund  site is
adjacent to a municipal  landfill  that is in the process of being  closed under
Massachusetts  law.  Once the EPA and the PRPs  resolve an  outstanding  dispute
regarding certain  oversight costs, the Company expects to receive  confirmation
from the EPA that we have  fulfilled our  obligations  under the  Administrative
Order. In fiscal 2005, we withdrew from further  participation in the PRP group.
It is  unlikely  that this  matter  will have a material  adverse  effect on our
operating  results,  financial  condition or cash flows,  and we believe that we
have adequately reserved for the potential costs associated with this site.

          In  September  1991,  the  Company  signed a judicial  consent  decree
relating to the Western Sand and Gravel site located in  Burrillville  and North
Smithfield,  Rhode Island.  The consent decree was entered on August 28, 1992 by
the United  States  District  Court for the District of Rhode  Island.  The most
likely  scenario  for  remediation  of the ground  water at this site is through
natural  attenuation,  which will be  monitored  until 2017.  Estimated  cost of
remediation by natural attenuation to 2017 is approximately $1.5 million.  Based
on current participation, our share of these costs is approximately $134,000. We
believe  that this site will not result in any  material  adverse  effect on the
Company's  operating  results,  financial  condition  or cash flows based on the
results  of  periodic  tests  conducted  at the  site,  and we  believe  we have
adequately reserved for the potential costs associated with this site.

          (b) No material pending legal  proceedings were terminated  during the
three month period ended December 31, 2005.

                                       8

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

         Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The executive officers of the Company are as follows:

Name                            Age      Title
- ----                            ---      -----

John A. Tulin                   59       President and Chief Executive Officer and Director

James E. Tulin                  54       Senior Vice President - Merchandising and Director

Paul Duckett                    65       Senior Vice President - Distribution and Retail Store Operations

Melvin Goldfeder                69       Senior Vice President - Special Markets Division

Jerold R. Kassner               49       Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary

Eric P. Luft                    50       Senior Vice President - Men's Division and Director

There are no family  relationships  among  any of the  persons  listed
above or among such persons and the directors of the Company except that John A.
Tulin and James E. Tulin are brothers.

        John A. Tulin has served as President and Chief Executive  Officer since
October 1995. Mr. Tulin joined us in 1971, was elected a Vice President in 1974,
Senior Vice  President in 1979 and  Executive  Vice  President  in 1982.  He has
served as a director since 1975.

          James E.  Tulin has been  Senior  Vice  President-Merchandising  since
October 1995.  For more than five years prior to October 1995,  Mr. Tulin served
as a Senior Vice President. Mr. Tulin has been a director since 1985.

          Paul  Duckett has been Senior Vice  President-Distribution  and Retail
Store  Operations  since October 1995. For more than five years prior to October
1995, Mr. Duckett served as a Senior Vice President.

          Melvin  Goldfeder  has  been  Senior  Vice  President-Special  Markets
Division since October 1995. For more than five years prior to October 1995, Mr.
Goldfeder served as a Senior Vice President.

          Jerold R.  Kassner  has been Senior Vice  President,  Chief  Financial
Officer, Treasurer and Secretary since July 1999. Mr. Kassner joined the Company
in November  1988 and was elected Vice  President  and  Controller  in September
1997.

          Eric P.  Luft has been  Senior  Vice  President-Men's  Division  since
October  1995.  Mr.  Luft served as a  Divisional  Vice  President  of the Men's
Products  Division  from June 1989 until  January  1993,  when he was  elected a
Senior Vice President. Mr. Luft became a director in December 2000.

          Each officer serves, at the pleasure of the Board of Directors,  for a
term of one year and until his successor is elected and qualified.

                                       9

PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
          MATTERS.

         (a) Our common stock,  $.10 par value per share (the "Common Stock") is
traded in the over-the-counter market under the symbol SNKI. The following table
sets forth for each  quarterly  period during the last two fiscal years the high
and low bid prices for the Common Stock, as reported by Yahoo.com  (which prices
reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and
may not necessarily represent actual transactions).

Number of Record Holders at February 28, 2006 - 1,200

         Our loan  agreement  prohibits  the  payment of cash  dividends  on our
Common Stock (see "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and Results of  Operations").  We have not paid any cash dividends on our Common
Stock during the last two fiscal years and we have no current  expectation  that
cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future.

         Except  as  previously  reported,  we did not  issue  any  unregistered
securities during fiscal 2005.

         (b) Not applicable.

         (c)  During  the  three-months  ended  December  31,  2005,  we did not
repurchase any shares of our Common Stock.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

         The following table provides  selected  consolidated  financial data of
the  Company  as of and for each of the  years  in the  five-year  period  ended
December  31,  2005 and  should  be read in  conjunction  with our  consolidated
financial  statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report
on Form 10-K.

         The selected  consolidated  financial  data as of December 31, 2005 and
2004 and for each of the three years in the period ended  December 31, 2005 have
been  derived  from our  consolidated  financial  statements  which are included
elsewhere  in this annual  report on Form 10-K and were  audited by BDO Seidman,
LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. The selected consolidated
financial  data as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 and for the year ended December
31,  2002 have been  derived  from our  consolidated  financial  statements  not
included  herein,  which  were  audited  by  BDO  Seidman,   LLP.  The  selected
consolidated  financial data as of and for the year ended December 31, 2001 have
been derived from our  consolidated  financial  statements not included  herein,
which were  audited by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP, an  independent  registered
public accounting firm.

10

11

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
           RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

OVERVIEW

       We are currently  engaged in the  importation,  sale and  distribution of
men's belts,  leather accessories,  suspenders,  and men's jewelry. Our products
are sold both  domestically  and  internationally  under a broad  assortment  of
brands including both licensed  tradenames and private labels. We distribute our
merchandise  principally through department stores and through a wide variety of
specialty  stores and mass  merchandisers.  We also  operate a number of factory
outlet stores primarily to distribute excess and out of line merchandise.

       Our  net  sales  in  2005  increased  5.0%  to  $97,914,000  compared  to
$93,287,000  in 2004.  The  increase  was mainly due to higher  shipments of our
jewelry and belt merchandise  offset in part by a reduction in net sales for our
personal  leather goods lines.  Gross profit  increased 7.0% to $32,866,000 from
$30,720,000  in 2004 and, as a percentage of net sales,  increased to 33.6% from
32.9% last year.  The  increase  in gross  profit  was due  primarily  to a more
favorable  sales mix  resulting  from the growth in our  relatively  high-margin
jewelry  net  sales.  Selling  and  administrative  expenses  during  2005  were
approximately  even  with  2004  as  increases  in  certain   merchandising  and
distribution costs associated with higher net sales were offset by reductions in
professional fees and other administrative costs.

       Net income for the year ending  December 31, 2004  included a net expense
of $728,000  consisting of a net gain of $1,090,000  from the  termination  of a
real estate lease that was offset in part by a $362,000 asset impairment  charge
in connection with our former jewelry manufacturing  facility and administrative
offices in  Attleboro,  Massachusetts.  During the  fourth  quarter of 2004,  we
relocated our administrative  staff to our Taunton,  Massachusetts  distribution
facility and are presently assessing our options with regard to alternative uses
or the  disposition  of the  Attleboro  property.  The  net  gain  on the  lease
termination and the Attleboro fixed asset impairment  charges were both recorded
separately in our  consolidated  statement of  operations  in 2004.  Also during
2004,  we  recorded  an expense of  $589,000,  which was  included  in  interest
expense,  in connection with the write-off of certain deferred  financing costs,
early  termination  fees and other  charges  related to the  termination  of our
revolving  credit  agreement  with a prior lender (see  "Restructuring  Charges"
below).

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

       Management  believes that the  accounting  policies  discussed  below are
important to an understanding of the Company's financial statements because they
require  management  to exercise  judgment and estimate the effects of uncertain
matters in the  preparation  and  reporting of financial  results.  Accordingly,
management  cautions that these  policies and the  judgments and estimates  they
involve are subject to revision and adjustment in the future. While they involve
judgment,  management believes the other accounting policies discussed in Note B
to the consolidated financial statements are also important in understanding the
statements.

Revenue Recognition

         Net sales are generally  recorded upon shipment,  provided there exists
persuasive  evidence of an  arrangement,  the fee is fixed or  determinable  and
collectability  of the related  receivable  is reasonably  assured.  The Company
records  revenues net of sales  allowances,  including cash discounts,  in-store
customer allowances,  cooperative  advertising,  and customer returns, which are
all accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 48, "Revenue  Recognition  When Right of Return Exists," and Emerging Issues
Task Force Issue No. 01-09, "Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a
Customer or Reseller of the Vendor's  Products".  Sales allowances are estimated
using a number of factors including historical experience, current trends in the
retail  industry and  individual  customer and product  experience.  The Company
reduces net sales and cost of sales by the estimated effect of future returns of
current period shipments.  Each spring upon the completion of processing returns
from the preceding fall season, the Company records  adjustments to net sales in
the second quarter to reflect the difference  between  customer returns of prior
year  shipments  actually  received in the current year and the estimate used to
establish the allowance for customer  returns at the end of the preceding fiscal
year.

                                       12

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

       The Company determines allowances for doubtful accounts using a number of
factors including historical collection experience,  general economic conditions
and the amount of time an account  receivable  is past its payment due date.  In
certain  circumstances  where it is  believed a  customer  is unable to meet its
financial obligations, a specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded to
reduce the account receivable to the amount believed to be collectable.

Environmental Costs

       In  accordance  with AICPA  Statement  of Position  96-1,  "Environmental
Remediation  Liabilities",  environmental  expenditures  that  relate to current
operations are expensed or capitalized, as appropriate. Expenditures that relate
to an existing condition caused by past operations,  and which do not contribute
to current or future revenue generation, are expensed.  Liabilities are recorded
when  environmental  assessments  and/or  remedial  efforts are probable and the
costs can be reasonably  estimated.  Generally,  adjustments  to these  accruals
coincide with the completion of a feasibility  study or a commitment  made by us
to a formal  plan of action or other  appropriate  benchmark  (see Note I to the
consolidated financial statements for additional discussion).

Inventory and Reserves

     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (principally average cost which
approximates FIFO) or market. Our inventory is somewhat fashion oriented and, as
a  result,  is  subject  to risk of  rapid  obsolescence.  We  believe  that our
inventory has been  adequately  adjusted,  where  appropriate,  and that we have
adequate channels to dispose of excess and obsolete inventory.

Income Taxes

      The Company  determines  the  valuation  allowance for deferred tax assets
based upon  projections  of taxable income or loss for future tax years in which
the temporary differences that created the deferred tax asset are anticipated to
reverse,  and the  likelihood  that the  Company's  deferred  tax assets will be
recovered.

2005 VS. 2004

NET SALES

     Net sales for the year ended  December 31, 2005  increased by $4,627,000 or
5.0% compared to 2004. The increase was mainly due to increases in net sales for
both our  men's  jewelry  and belt  merchandise  collections  offset  in part by
decreased net sales of personal  leather goods items.  During 2005,  our jewelry
net sales  increased  38.2%  compared to 2004,  as we were able to capitalize on
menswear  fashion  trends  that  continued  to  emphasize  a more  dressy  look,
including  French  cuff  shirts  and  related  accessories.  Jewelry  net  sales
increased in virtually  every brand and  distribution  channel,  and we launched
several  new  merchandise  programs  during  the  year.  Net  sales  of our belt
merchandise  rose 7.3% in 2005,  primarily  due to a number of new  branded  and
private label  merchandise  programs for certain  department and specialty store
retailers  that  were  launched  during  the  fall  selling  season,  as well as
decreased customer returns.  The increase in belt net sales during 2005 was also
due in part to higher net sales of our "Kenneth  Cole" branded belt  merchandise
and  increased  net sales of both new and  existing  private  label  merchandise
collections to certain major customers.

     Personal  leather goods net sales decreased 11.7% in 2005 compared to 2004.
The decrease was primarily due to the loss of a certain  merchandise program for
one of our chain  store  customers.  Exclusive  of this loss,  net sales for our
personal leather goods lines would have declined 1.5%.  Increased  shipments for
our "Guess?", "Geoffrey Beene", and "Pierre Cardin" merchandise collections were
generally  offset by  reductions  in certain  other  branded and  private  label
programs sold mainly to department store customers.

                                       13

Net sales to international customers increased 13.1% during 2005 due mainly
to higher shipments of belt and personal leather goods  merchandise.  Export net
sales accounted for approximately 8% of our total net sales during 2005 compared
to approximately 7% in 2004.

         Net sales in both 2005 and 2004 were  favorably  affected by the annual
returns adjustment made during each year's second quarter. Each month, we reduce
net sales and cost of sales by the estimated effect of future returns of current
period shipments. Each spring upon the completion of processing returns from the
preceding fall season, we record  adjustments to net sales in the second quarter
to reflect  the  difference  between  customer  returns of prior year  shipments
actually  received in the current  year and the estimate  used to establish  the
allowance for customer  returns at the end of the preceding  fiscal year.  These
adjustments  increased net sales by $814,000 and $1,703,000 for the twelve month
periods  ended  December  31, 2005 and 2004,  respectively.  Our actual  returns
experience  during both the spring 2005 and spring 2004  seasons was better than
anticipated  compared  to the  reserves  established  at  December  31, 2004 and
December 31, 2003, respectively, principally due to lower than expected customer
returns for men's  leather  goods and belts.  The  reserve at December  31, 2004
assumed  additional  returns would be received  during the spring 2005 season in
connection with the launch of a new personal leather goods program. While actual
returns for this  merchandise  category  did increase 58% during the spring 2005
season compared to the prior year, returns were less than originally anticipated
due to heavier in-store  promotional  expenditures that accelerated retail sales
of the existing merchandise.  We established our reserve for returns at December
31, 2004 based on our estimates of merchandise to be received  during the spring
2005  season  which was  generally  shipped to  retailers  for the 2004 fall and
holiday selling seasons.

GROSS PROFIT

         Gross  profit  for the  year  ended  December  31,  2005  increased  by
$2,146,000 or 7.0% to  $32,866,000  compared to the prior year's gross profit of
$30,720,000.  Gross profit  expressed  as a percentage  of net sales in 2005 was
33.6% compared to 32.9% in 2004.

       The increase in gross  profit both in dollars and as a percentage  of net
sales during 2005 was due to an increase in relatively  high-margin  jewelry net
sales,  offset in part by lower net sales and initial  markups for our  personal
leather goods lines,  higher  inventory-related  costs for belts,  and increased
merchandise  display  expenditures.  In 2005,  jewelry net sales  accounted  for
approximately  17% of total company net sales compared to  approximately  13% in
2004. Provisions for in-store markdown and cooperative advertising expenditures,
which are included in our net sales,  generally increased during 2005 reflecting
variable  costs  associated  with certain new business  opportunities.  However,
these costs were  partially  offset by a reduction in the provision for customer
returns (see above "Net Sales" discussion).

       The reduction in initial markup for personal leather goods was mainly due
to an  adverse  sales  mix that led to an  increase  in net  sales  for  certain
lower-margin merchandise assortments and a decrease in others. Inventory-related
costs for belts increased during 2005 mainly due to year-end  markdowns taken on
discontinued and excess  inventory.  We routinely  assess our on-hand  inventory
position and record valuation adjustments as appropriate.

     Royalty charges associated with the Company's license agreements  increased
6.1% in 2005 but were  unchanged  expressed  as a percentage  of net sales.  The
increase  in  dollars  was due to higher  net sales of  merchandise  sold  under
licensed tradenames and in certain  circumstances,  increases in our contractual
minimum royalty obligations.

         Included  in gross  profit are annual  second  quarter  adjustments  to
record the variance between  customer  returns of prior year shipments  actually
received in the current year and the  allowance  for customer  returns which was
established at the end of the preceding fiscal year. The adjustment to net sales
recorded  in  the  second  quarter  described  above  resulted  in  a  favorable
adjustment to gross profit of $569,000 and $911,000 for the years ended December
31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

SELLING, ADMINISTRATIVE, AND OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE

       Selling and administrative  expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005
decreased  $220,000,  or less than 1%,  compared to the prior year.  Selling and
administrative  expense expressed as a percentage of net sales declined to 28.6%
from 30.3% in 2004. The decrease in our selling and administrative  expenses was
due to lower professional fees, reduced  administrative  compensation and fringe
benefit  costs,  and  lower   telecommunications   and  software  licensing  and
maintenance

                                       14

expenses,  all offset in part by higher product  development  and  merchandising
costs and increased warehouse,  shipping, and other variable expenses associated
with the increase in net sales.  The decrease in  professional  fees during 2005
reflects  unusually high costs that were incurred during 2004 in connection with
the  negotiation  and  closing of a new  revolving  credit  agreement  and other
financing-related activities.

         Selling expenses increased by $1,081,000, or 5.4%, while administrative
expenses decreased by $1,301,000,  or 15.8%, both as compared to the prior year.
Expressed as a percentage of net sales, selling expenses totaled 21.6% and 21.5%
for fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively, and administrative expenses totaled 7.1%
and 8.8% for fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in selling expense
as a  percentage  of net sales was  principally  due to the  increase in product
development and variable sales costs, offset in part by the effect of higher net
sales. The decrease in  administrative  expense as a percentage of net sales was
due mainly to higher net sales.

         Our license  agreements also generally include minimum  advertising and
promotional spending requirements.  Advertising and promotional costs charged to
selling  expense in  support of our men's  accessories  business,  exclusive  of
cooperative  advertising  and display  expenditures  (which are  included in net
sales and cost of sales,  respectively),  totaled 2.1% of net sales for the year
ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2.6% in 2004.

GAIN/LOSS ON LEASE TERMINATION, RESTRUCTURING EXPENSES AND OTHER

         During the first  quarter of 2005,  we paid the  landlord of our former
Norwalk,  Connecticut belt manufacturing  facility $925,000 to settle all of our
remaining  obligations under the lease termination agreement signed in 2004 (see
below). As a result of this prepayment, we recorded a gain of $75,000 during the
first  quarter to recognize the  difference  between the amount of the liability
outstanding at December 31, 2004 under the  termination  agreement and the final
amount paid.  The gain is stated  separately  in our  consolidated  statement of
operations.

         During the first quarter of 2004, we entered into an agreement with the
landlord of our former Norwalk  facility under which the lease for that facility
was  terminated  effective  April 1, 2004. We paid $250,000 to the landlord upon
the signing of the termination agreement and an additional $250,000 on April 30,
2004.  The agreement also provided for payments to the landlord of an additional
$1,000,000,  in installments,  during the period from January 2005 through March
2006. Our estimated aggregate remaining  liabilities under the lease, had it not
been  terminated,  would have been  approximately  $2,586,000.  During 2004,  we
recorded a net gain of  $1,090,000  consisting of a $3,348,000  gain  associated
with the recognition of the remaining  balance of a deferred gain on real estate
offset  in  part  by  $2,084,000  in  costs  related  to the  lease  termination
(including  $1,500,000 in lease termination costs,  $455,000 in asset impairment
charges,  and  $129,000  for other  plant  closing  expenses),  and  $174,000 in
severance   and  related   expenses   recorded  in   connection   with  employee
terminations.  The net gain was stated separately in the Company's  consolidated
statement  of  operations.  As noted  above,  we  settled  all of the  remaining
obligations under the termination agreement during the first quarter of 2005.

      During the fourth quarter of 2004, we also recorded a non-cash  impairment
charge of $362,000 in connection  with certain fixed assets  associated with our
former jewelry  manufacturing  facility and  administrative  offices  located in
Attleboro, Massachusetts. We ceased our jewelry manufacturing operations in 2000
but until the fourth quarter of 2004, the Attleboro  building continued to house
our main administrative  offices.  We consolidated our remaining  administrative
staff into our  Taunton,  Massachusetts  location  and are  currently  assessing
alternative  uses or the disposition of the Attleboro  property.  The impairment
charge was stated separately in our consolidated statement of operations for the
year ended December 31, 2004.

INTEREST EXPENSE

         Net interest  expense for the year ended  December  31, 2005  decreased
$360,000  or 22.2%  compared  to 2004.  The  decrease  was due to the expense of
$589,000  recorded in 2004 associated  with the write-off of deferred  financing
costs,  early termination fees and other charges related to the termination of a
previous  financing  agreement.  Exclusive of this charge,  net interest expense
would have increased  $229,000 or 22.2% compared to 2004. The increase is due to
higher average  outstanding  revolving  credit  balances during 2005 compared to
2004,  as well as an increase of  approximately  121 basis points in our average
borrowing rate (see "Liquidity and Capital Resources").  The increase in average
borrowings  during  2005  was due to  higher  inventories  required  to  support
increased sales, particularly during the fall selling season.

                                       15

2004 VS. 2003

NET SALES

         Net sales for the year ended  December 31, 2004 decreased by $1,558,000
or 1.6% compared to 2003. Net sales of the Company's  men's jewelry  merchandise
increased  11.5% while net sales of personal  leather goods and belts  decreased
3.7% and 2.5%, respectively,  all as compared to the prior year. The increase in
jewelry  net  sales  is  due  to  higher  shipments  of  certain   private-label
merchandise  and increased  sales of branded  programs to  department  and chain
stores.  Jewelry net sales have also increased due to improved trends  generally
at  retail  for  this  classification  resulting  in an  increased  emphasis  by
retailers on "giftable" merchandise.  The decrease in personal leather goods net
sales was  primarily  due to a reduction in shipments of certain  branded  goods
sold  mainly to  department  store  customers,  offset in part by a  significant
increase in shipments of the  Company's  "Guess?"  merchandise.  The decrease in
men's belt net sales in 2004 was  primarily  due to lower sales of the Company's
"Geoffrey Beene" and "Pierre Cardin"  merchandise offset in part by higher sales
associated  with the Company's  "Axcess by Claiborne"  and "Kenneth Cole" goods.
During  2004,  one  of  the  Company's  larger  customers  for  "Pierre  Cardin"
merchandise  began placing more emphasis on  alternative  private-label  brands.
During 2004,  the Company also  decreased  its exposure to certain  lower-margin
private-label  businesses in favor of  faster-growing,  more  profitable  lines,
including its export  business.  The Company's  international  business  overall
increased  84% during 2004 mainly due to higher  shipments  of "Guess?"  branded
personal  leather goods  merchandise to existing  customers and generally higher
shipments of all product  categories,  especially  belts,  to certain new export
accounts. Net sales to international customers accounted for approximately 7% of
the Company's total net sales during 2004 compared to less than 4% in 2003.

         The decrease in belt and small leather goods shipments  during 2004 was
offset in part by a reduction in sales dilution associated with reduced customer
returns.  The  Company's  provision for customer  returns  decreased 38% in 2004
mainly  due  to a  more  stable  product  line  and  an  increased  emphasis  on
promotional  expenditures to promote retail sales.  Cooperative  advertising and
markdown  expenditures  increased  approximately 9% during the year. The Company
regularly  participates in promotional events designed to stimulate sales of its
merchandise or expand its market share within certain retail channels.

         Net sales in 2004 and 2003 were also  favorably  affected by the annual
returns adjustment made in the second quarter. The Company reduces net sales and
cost of sales by the  estimated  effect  of future  returns  of  current  period
shipments.  Each spring  upon the  completion  of  processing  returns  from the
preceding  fall  season,  the Company  records  adjustments  to net sales in the
second quarter to reflect the difference  between customer returns of prior year
shipments  actually  received  in the  current  year  and the  estimate  used to
establish the allowance for customer  returns at the end of the preceding fiscal
year. These adjustments increased net sales by $1,703,000 and $2,069,000 for the
twelve  month  periods  ended  December  31,  2004 and 2003,  respectively.  The
Company's actual return  experience  during both the spring 2004 and spring 2003
seasons was better than  anticipated  compared to the  reserves  established  at
December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively,  principally due to lower
than  expected  returns  for men's  personal  leather  goods and belts.  Returns
generally  declined  during  2004  compared  to the  prior  year as the  Company
maintained a more stable  merchandise  assortment  and increased its emphasis on
in-store  promotions  to promote the sale of  slower-moving  goods.  The Company
established  its  reserve  for  returns  as of  December  31,  2003 based on its
estimate of merchandise  to be received  during the spring 2004 season which was
generally  shipped to retailers for the 2003 fall and holiday  selling  seasons.
Although  the Company  anticipated  a reduction in returns in  establishing  its
reserve at December 31, 2003, actual experience was more favorable than planned.

GROSS PROFIT

         Gross  profit  for the  year  ended  December  31,  2004  increased  by
$4,358,000 or 16.5% to $30,720,000  compared to the prior year's gross profit of
$26,362,000.  Gross profit  expressed as a percentage  of net sales for 2004 was
32.9% compared to 27.8% for 2003.

         The increase in gross profit both in dollars and as a percentage of net
sales during 2004 was primarily due to higher margins for men's belts  resulting
from the closure of the Company's Norwalk, Connecticut manufacturing facility in
2003 and subsequent  re-sourcing of all merchandise  requirements to third-party
vendors. The Company was able to significantly decrease its merchandise cost for
men's  belts  in  2004  through  the   elimination   of  certain   manufacturing
inefficiencies  and other fixed overhead expenses  associated with the operation
of its Norwalk plant.  During 2003, the Company recorded  substantial  labor and
overhead  manufacturing  variances at Norwalk in an attempt to adjust production
levels with anticipated

16

demand.  The Company began  significantly  decreasing its  production  levels at
Norwalk  during the third  quarter of 2003 and ceased  manufacturing  operations
during the fourth quarter.

         The  improvement in 2004's gross profit was also due to lower inventory
control costs,  primarily belt raw material  obsolescence,  and a more favorable
sales mix,  principally an increase in net sales of men's jewelry which commands
a higher gross margin than the Company's other  products,  compared to the prior
year.  Gross profit for the year ended  December  31, 2003  included a charge of
$1,360,000  recorded  during the fourth quarter in connection with the write-off
of the  Company's  remaining  belt  raw  material  inventory.  Net  sales of the
Company's  men's  jewelry  merchandise  increased  11.5% in 2004 compared to the
prior year and  accounted  for  approximately  13.0% of  consolidated  net sales
compared to 11.5% in 2003.  The  Company's  initial  markup in 2004 on its men's
personal leather goods  merchandise also increased during the year mainly due to
a reduction in net sales to  lower-margin  customers which was offset in part by
an increase in export net sales.

      Provisions  for  customer  returns,   in-store  markdown  and  cooperative
advertising  allowances,  and other sales  dilution  decreased to 10.2% of gross
shipments in 2004 from 11.3% last year.  The  reduction  was mainly due to lower
customer  returns  offset in part by an increase in the  provision  for in-store
markdowns and cooperative  advertising  allowances.  Royalty charges  associated
with the Company's license agreements  increased 6.8% in 2004 due to an increase
in net sales of certain  branded  merchandise  and in some cases,  increases  in
contractual minimum royalty obligations.

         Included  in gross  profit are annual  second  quarter  adjustments  to
record the variance between  customer  returns of prior year shipments  actually
received in the current year and the  allowance  for customer  returns which was
established at the end of the preceding fiscal year. The adjustment to net sales
recorded  in  the  second  quarter  described  above  resulted  in  a  favorable
adjustment to gross profit of $911,000 and $913,000 for the years ended December
31, 2004 and 2003 respectively.

SELLING, ADMINISTRATIVE, AND OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE

         Selling and  administrative  expenses  for the year ended  December 31,
2004  increased  $716,000  or 2.6%  compared  to the  prior  year.  Selling  and
administrative expense expressed as a percentage of net sales increased to 30.3%
from  29.0% in 2003.  Selling  expenses  increased  by  $544,000  or 2.8%  while
administrative  expenses  increased by $172,000 or 2.1%, both as compared to the
prior year.  Expressed as a percentage of net sales,  selling  expenses  totaled
21.5% and 20.5% for 2004 and 2003,  respectively,  and  administrative  expenses
totaled 8.8% and 8.5% for 2004 and 2003, respectively.

         The  increase  in  selling   expenses  was   primarily  due  to  higher
advertising and promotional expenditures and increased product development costs
including  purchased samples and other supplies,  trade shows, and international
travel.  These increases were offset in part by lower  compensation  and related
expenses,  occupancy  costs, and freight  expense.  The Company  routinely makes
advertising and promotional  expenditures to enhance its business and to support
the advertising and promotion activity of its licensors.  The license agreements
to which the Company is a party also generally  include minimum  advertising and
promotional  spending  requirements.  Advertising  and  promotional  expenses in
support of the Company's men's  accessories  business,  exclusive of cooperative
advertising  and display  expenditures,  totaled  2.6% of net sales for the year
ended December 31, 2004 compared to 2.1% in 2003.

         The  increase  in  administrative  expenses  in 2004 was  mainly due to
higher  professional  fees and bad debt expense offset in part by a reduction in
administrative  compensation  and  related  expense  and  occupancy  costs.  The
increase in  professional  fees was primarily due to activities  associated with
the Company's revolving credit refinancing during the first half of 2004.

GAIN/LOSS ON LEASE TERMINATION, RESTRUCTURING EXPENSES AND OTHER

         During the first  quarter of 2004,  the Company and the landlord of its
former  Norwalk,   Connecticut  belt  manufacturing  facility  entered  into  an
agreement under which the lease for that facility was terminated effective April
1, 2004.  The  Company  paid  $250,000 to the  landlord  upon the signing of the
termination  agreement  and  $250,000  on April 30,  2004.  The  agreement  also
provided  for  payments  to  the  landlord  of  an  additional  $1,000,000,   in
installments,  during the period from  January  2005  through  March  2006.  The
Company  estimates its aggregate  remaining  liabilities under the lease, had it
not been terminated, would have been approximately $2,586,000.  During the first
quarter,  the  Company  recorded  a  net  gain  of  $1,090,000  consisting  of a
$3,348,000 gain  associated  with the recognition of the remaining  balance of a
deferred  gain on

                                       17

real  estate  offset  in  part by  $2,084,000  in  costs  related  to the  lease
termination  (including $1,500,000 in lease termination costs, $455,000 in asset
impairment charges, and $129,000 for other plant closing expenses), and $174,000
in  severance  and  related  expenses   recorded  in  connection  with  employee
terminations.  The net gain was stated separately in the Company's  consolidated
statement  of  operations.  On January 3, 2005,  the Company  paid the  landlord
$925,000  to settle  all of its  remaining  obligations  under  the  termination
agreement.  The Company  recorded a gain of $75,000  during the first quarter of
2005 to recognize the difference between the amount of the liability outstanding
at December 31, 2004 under the termination agreement and the final amount paid.

         During the quarter  ended  December  31, 2004,  the Company  recorded a
non-cash  impairment  charge of $362,000 in connection with certain fixed assets
associated  with its former jewelry  manufacturing  facility and  administrative
offices  in  Attleboro,  Massachusetts.  Although  the  Company  ceased  jewelry
manufacturing  operations in 2000, the Attleboro building continued to house the
Company's   main   administrative   offices.   In  December  2004,  the  Company
consolidated   its   administrative   staff  into  its  Taunton,   Massachusetts
distribution  center  and  is  currently  assessing   alternative  uses  or  the
disposition of its Attleboro property.

         During the fourth  quarter of 2003,  the Company  ceased  manufacturing
operations  at  its  belt  and  suspender  manufacturing  facility  in  Norwalk,
Connecticut and began sourcing the balance of its belt and suspender merchandise
requirements  from third-party  vendors.  As part of this transition,  beginning
early in the third  quarter the  Company  gradually  began to reduce  production
levels at Norwalk and  subsequently  reorganized  its  sourcing  and  production
organizations  to better  reflect  the  Company's  new supply  chain  model.  In
connection with the plant closure,  the Company recorded and included in cost of
goods sold  during the fourth  quarter  $1,360,000  in charges  associated  with
obsolete raw  materials  and  supplies.  In addition,  the Company also recorded
during  the fourth  quarter a  $280,000  restructuring  charge  associated  with
severances and other expenses incurred in connection with the plant closure. The
restructuring  charge  is stated  separately  in the  accompanying  Consolidated
Statements of Operations for the year ending  December 31, 2003. At December 31,
2003, $181,000 had been paid representing all of the severance liability payable
to the affected employees.  An additional $99,000 was recorded as a reduction in
the cost basis of the  machinery  and  equipment  formerly used in the Company's
belt and suspender  manufacturing  operations,  to reflect their  estimated fair
market values.

INTEREST EXPENSE

         Net interest  expense for the year ended  December  31, 2004  increased
$459,000 or 40% compared to 2003.  The increase was  primarily due to an expense
of $589,000  recorded  during the quarter ended June 30, 2004 in connection with
the write-off of deferred  financing  costs,  early  termination  fees and other
charges related to the  termination of the Company's  previous loan and security
agreement.  Exclusive of this charge,  net interest expense declined $130,000 or
11.2%  compared to 2003.  This decrease was due mainly to a reduction in average
outstanding  revolving  credit  balances  during 2004 compared to 2003 offset in
part by an increase of  approximately  89 basis points in the Company's  average
borrowing  costs  compared  to  the  prior  year  (see  "Liquidity  and  Capital
Resources").

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

         We recorded a current  income tax  provision  of $30,000 in fiscal 2005
and  recorded no income tax  provision or benefit  during  2004.  In fiscal year
2000,  we began  recording a valuation  reserve  against all of our deferred tax
assets. During both 2005 and 2004, we utilized various deferred tax assets which
had been fully  reserved  to offset the  majority of our tax  provision.  During
2003, we recorded a valuation  reserve against the deferred tax assets generated
from our losses.  The amount of the  deferred  tax asset  considered  realizable
could be  adjusted  in the future if  estimates  of  taxable  income or loss for
future years are revised based on our actual results.

PROMOTIONAL EXPENDITURES

         We routinely make  advertising and promotional  expenditures to enhance
our  business  and  support  the  advertising  and  promotion  activity  of  our
licensors.  Promotional  expenditures  included  in selling  and  administrative
expenses  decreased  by  $348,000  in 2005  compared  to 2004 and  increased  by
$385,000  in 2004  compared  to 2003.  We also make  expenditures  in support of
cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our retail customers. These
expenses,  which are included in net sales,  increased  $512,000  and  decreased
$398,000 in 2005 and 2004,  respectively,  both as compared to the corresponding

                                       18

prior year amounts.  Expenditures for merchandise displays and fixturing,  which
we include in cost of sales, increased $473,000 in 2005 and decreased $77,000 in
2004 compared to the prior year amounts.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

         Cash  provided  by  operations  in  2005  was  $2,805,000  compared  to
$4,107,000  in 2004.  Cash  was  provided  in 2005  principally  by net  income,
depreciation and amortization,  and increases in accounts  payable,  accrued and
other  liabilities.  Cash provided during 2005 was offset in part by an increase
in  inventories  and other current  assets and decreases in income taxes payable
and  certain  long term  obligations  and  deferred  credits.  The  increase  in
inventory in 2005 was due to additional purchases we made during the fall season
to  support  higher  sales  levels,   particularly  for  our  jewelry  and  belt
merchandise lines. During 2004, inventory balances generally declined due to our
efforts to reduce  excess  inventories  and better  match our overall  inventory
investment  with  projected   sales  and  other  working  capital   requirements
anticipated  during that time period. The increase in accounts payable and other
current liabilities during 2005 was mainly due to increased inventory purchases,
particularly during the fall season, in response to higher sales.

         Cash provided by investing  activities  was $61,000 in 2005 compared to
cash used of $266,000  during 2004. Cash was provided in 2005 by the proceeds of
life  insurance  policies  used to fund  certain  employee  benefits for retired
executives, offset in part by cash used for capital expenditures and premiums on
life insurance  policies.  During 2004, cash used for capital  expenditures  and
premiums  on life  insurance  policies  was  offset  partially  by the  proceeds
received from the sale of certain manufacturing equipment.

         Cash used in financing  activities  was  $3,094,000 in 2005 compared to
$3,835,000 in 2004. In both years, cash was used primarily for net repayments of
borrowings  under our revolving  credit  agreements.  During 2004, cash was also
used for closing  and other costs  associated  with a new  financing  agreement,
offset in part by an increase in notes payable due to affiliates.

         Working  capital  financing  is provided  primarily  by cash flows from
operating  activities and a $25,000,000  Loan and Security  Agreement  signed on
June 30,  2004 (the  "2004  Loan  Agreement")  with Wells  Fargo  Foothill,  Inc
("WFF").  The 2004 Loan  Agreement,  which replaced a previous loan and security
agreement with a prior lender,  is  collateralized  by substantially  all of our
assets,  including accounts receivable,  inventory, and machinery and equipment.
The 2004 Loan  Agreement  contains a  $5,000,000  sublimit  for the  issuance of
letters of credit and also prohibits us from paying dividends, imposes limits on
additional  indebtedness  for  borrowed  money,  and  contains  minimum  monthly
earnings before interest, taxes,  depreciation,  and amortization  requirements.
The terms of the 2004 Loan Agreement permit us to borrow against a percentage of
eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory at an interest rate based on
Wells Fargo Bank,  N.A.'s  prime  lending rate plus 1.25% or at WFF's LIBOR rate
plus 3.75%.  We also are required to pay a monthly unused line fee of .5% of the
maximum  revolving  credit  amount less the average  daily  balance of loans and
letters of credit  outstanding  during the  immediately  preceding  month. As of
December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all covenants contained within the
2004 Loan Agreement.

         On April 1, 2004, Marshall Tulin, our former Chairman and a director of
the  Company,  loaned  $350,000  to  the  Company  pursuant  to the  terms  of a
subordinated  promissory  note, as amended and restated as of June 30, 2004 (the
"Note") issued by the Company to Mr. Tulin. The Note is expressly subordinate in
right of payment to the Company's  senior debt, has an original  maturity of two
years and bears  interest at an annual rate of 7.0%,  payable  quarterly.  Under
certain  circumstances,  as more  fully  set  forth in the  Note,  the  original
maturity  date of the Note will be extended to the earlier of December  31, 2009
or the  date  the  2004  Loan  Agreement  shall  have  been  terminated  and all
obligations of the Company under the 2004 Loan Agreement shall have been paid in
full in cash.

         On November  12,  2005,  Mr. Tulin died.  John Tulin,  President  and a
director of the Company,  and James Tulin,  Senior Vice President and a director
of the Company,  both sons of Marshall  Tulin,  are  co-executors of Mr. Tulin's
estate  (the  "Estate").  The Estate  has the option at any time to convert  the
principal  amount of the Note into  shares of our  common  stock  pursuant  to a
formula based on the greater of the aggregate market value of the Company or its
going concern  value as  determined by an investment  banking firm or nationally
recognized  accounting firm, on the conversion date. The number of shares of our
common  stock  that may be issued  under the Note may not exceed 20% of the then
issued and outstanding shares of our common stock on the conversion date. At our
option and subject to certain  provisions of the Note, we may prepay the Note at
any time without premium or penalty.

                                       19

During the normal course of business,  we are theoretically  exposed to
interest rate change market risk with respect to borrowings  under our 2004 Loan
Agreement.  The seasonal nature of our business typically requires that we build
inventories  during the course of the year in anticipation of heavy shipments to
retailers during the upcoming holiday season. Accordingly,  our revolving credit
borrowings  generally peak during the third and fourth  quarters.  Therefore,  a
sudden  increase in  interest  rates  (which  under our 2004 Loan  Agreement  is
presently the prime rate plus a margin of 1.25% or LIBOR plus a margin of 3.75%)
may,  especially  during  peak  borrowing  periods,  have a  negative  impact on
short-term  results.  We are also  theoretically  exposed  to  market  risk with
respect to changes in the global price level of certain  commodities used in the
production of the Company's products.

         In the ordinary  course of  business,  we are  contingently  liable for
performance  under letters of credit of  approximately  $223,000 at December 31,
2005.  We are  required  to pay a fee  quarterly  equal  to 2.0%  per  annum  on
outstanding letters of credit.

         The  following  chart  summarizes  our  contractual  obligations  as of
December 31, 2005 (in thousands):

We are  also a party  to  employment  agreements  with  certain  of our
executive  officers  that  provide  for the  payment of  compensation  and other
benefits  during the term of each  executives'  employment  and,  under  certain
circumstances, for a period of time following their termination.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

         We expect that cash from  operations  and  availability  under our 2004
Loan Agreement will be sufficient to fund our ongoing program of replacing aging
machinery and equipment to maintain or enhance operating efficiencies.

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

         Certain  of  the  preceding   paragraphs   contain   "forward   looking
statements" which are based upon current  expectations and involve certain risks
and  uncertainties.  Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private  Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995,  readers should note that these statements may be
impacted by, and the  Company's  actual  performance  may vary as a result of, a
number of known and unknown  risks and  uncertainties  that could  cause  actual
results,  performance or achievements to differ  materially from those described
or implied in the  forward-looking  statements,  including,  but not limited to,
general  economic  and  business  conditions,  competition  in  the  accessories
markets;  potential  changes in  customer  spending;  acceptance  of our product
offerings and designs; the level of inventories maintained by our customers; the
variability of consumer  spending  resulting  from changes in domestic  economic
activity;  a highly promotional retail environment;  any significant  variations
between actual amounts and the amounts estimated for those matters identified as
our  critical  accounting  estimates  as well as  other  significant  accounting
estimates made in the preparation of our financial statements; and the impact of
the  hostilities in the Middle East and the  possibility of hostilities in other
geographic areas as well as other  geopolitical  concerns.  Accordingly,  actual
results may differ  materially  from such  forward-looking  statements.  You are
urged to consider all such factors. In light of the uncertainty inherent in such
forward-looking  statements,  you should not  consider  their  inclusion to be a
representation that such forward-looking  matters will be achieved. We assume no
obligation  for updating any such  forward-looking  statements to reflect actual
results,  changes in  assumptions  or changes in other  factors  affecting  such
forward-looking statements.

                                       20

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

         In December 2004,  the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board ("FASB")
issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004, "SFAS No. 123R"),  Share-Based Payment.  SFAS
123R addresses the accounting for share-based  payments to employees,  including
grants of employee  stock  options.  Under the new standard,  companies  will no
longer be able to account for share-based  compensation  transactions  using the
intrinsic  method in accordance  with APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting  For Stock
Issued To  Employees.  Instead,  companies  will be required to account for such
transactions  using  a  fair-value  method  and  recognize  the  expense  in the
consolidated  statement of operations.  Under the original  guidance of SFAS No.
123R,  we were to  adopt  the  statement's  provisions  for the  interim  period
beginning after June 15, 2005.  However, in April 2005, as a result of an action
by the Securities and Exchange  Commission,  companies were allowed to adopt the
provisions  of SFAS No. 123R at the  beginning  of their fiscal year that begins
after June 15, 2005. Consequently, we will adopt SFAS No. 123R effective January
1, 2006.

         In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff  Accounting  Bulletin No. 107 ("SAB
107")  regarding  the SEC's  interpretation  of SFAS 123R and the  valuation  of
share-based payments for public companies. We are evaluating the requirements of
SFAS 123R and SAB 107 and expect that the  adoption of SFAS 123R will not have a
material  impact  on our  consolidated  financial  statements  since  all of our
outstanding stock options are currently vested.  However,  depending upon future
share-based  payment activity,  SFAS 123R could have a material impact on future
financial statements.

         In May 2005,  FASB issued SFAS No.  154,  Accounting  Changes and Error
Corrections:  a Replacement of Accounting  Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 20
and FASB Statement No. 3 ("SFAS 154"). SFAS 154 requires that a voluntary change
in accounting  principles be retrospectively  applied to prior periods unless it
is  impracticable  to  do  so.  Retrospective   application  would  require  the
application of a different  accounting  principle to previously issued financial
statements as if that principle had always been used. The  requirements  of SFAS
154 are effective for accounting  changes made in fiscal years  beginning  after
December  15,  2005.  We did not  change  nor are we  considering  a  change  in
accounting principles in fiscal 2006 and accordingly,  we do not expect that the
adoption of SFAS 154 will have a significant impact on our financial  condition,
results of operations, or cash flows.

         In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs ("SFAS
151"), an amendment of Accounting  Research Bulletin No. 43 ("ARB 43"),  Chapter
4, Inventory Pricing.  SFAS 151 amends previous guidance regarding  treatment of
abnormal  amounts  of  idle  facility  expense,  freight,  handling  costs,  and
spoilage.  This  statement  requires  that those items be  recognized as current
period  charges  regardless  of whether they meet the criterion of "so abnormal"
which  was the  criterion  specified  in ARB 43.  In  addition,  this  Statement
requires  that  allocation  of  fixed  production  overheads  to the cost of the
production  be based on  normal  capacity  of the  production  facilities.  This
pronouncement is effective for fiscal periods  beginning after June 15, 2005. We
do not believe that the adoption of SFAS 151 will have a material  impact on our
financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

         We sell products primarily to major retailers within the United States.
Our three largest customers  combined  accounted for approximately  38%, 37% and
30%,  respectively,  of consolidated  trade receivables (gross of allowances) at
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.

         During fiscal 2005, Federated acquired the May Department Store Company
("May").  Combined  net  sales  during  fiscal  2005 to  Federated  and May were
approximately 23% of our consolidated net sales and these entities accounted for
approximately 27% of our consolidated trade receivables at December 31, 2005. We
believe  that our  relationship  with  both of  these  customers  is  excellent.
However,  the acquisition may result in a greater  potential  exposure to credit
risk, which may adversely  affect our business.  We will continue to follow this
situation and assess the effect, if any, that it may have on us.

         In the normal course of our business,  we are theoretically  exposed to
interest rate change market risk with respect to borrowings  under our revolving
credit line. The seasonal nature of our business  typically requires us to build
inventories  during the course of the year in anticipation of heavy shipments to
retailers  for the upcoming  holiday  season.  Our revolving  credit  borrowings
generally  peak  during  the  third and  fourth  quarters.  Therefore,  a sudden
increase  in  interest  rates  (which  under our  revolving  credit  facility is
presently the prime rate plus 1.25% or LIBOR plus 3.75%) may,  especially during
peak borrowing periods,  have a negative impact on short-term  results.  We also
are  theoretically  exposed

                                       21

to market  risk with  respect to changes  in the global  price  level of certain
commodities  used in the production of our products.  We purchase  substantially
all of our men's personal leather items and belts from third-party suppliers. An
unanticipated  material  increase in the market price of leather could  increase
the cost of these  products to us and  therefore  have a negative  effect on our
results.

22

ITEM 8.           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
                  --------------------------------------------

*All other  schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable
or not  required as the  required  information  is included in the  Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company or the Notes thereto.

23

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Board of Directors and Stockholders
Swank, Inc.
Taunton, Massachusetts

We have audited the accompanying  consolidated balance sheets of Swank, Inc. and
subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the related
consolidated  statements  of  operations,  changes in  stockholders'  equity and
comprehensive  income (loss),  and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended  December 31, 2005.  We have also audited the  financial  statement
schedule listed in the accompanying  index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) on page
51.  These  financial  statements  and schedule  are the  responsibility  of the
Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to  express  an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted  our audits in  accordance  with  standards  of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of
internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as a basis  for  designing  audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the  effectiveness  of the Company's  internal  control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also
includes  examining,  on a test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures in the financial  statements,  assessing the  accounting  principles
used and  significant  estimates made by  management,  as well as evaluating the
overall presentation of the financial  statements and schedule.  We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in all material  respects,  the financial  position of Swank,  Inc. and
subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their  operations
and their cash flows for each of the three  years in the period  ended  December
31, 2005 in conformity  with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the
United States of America.

Also, in our opinion,  the schedule,  listed in the index  appearing  under Item
15(a)(2) on page 51, presents fairly, in all material respects,  the information
set forth therein.

BDO Seidman, LLP

/s/ BDO Seidman, LLP
Boston, Massachusetts
February 17, 2006

24

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                   statements

25

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                   statements

26

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                   statements

27

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                   statements

28

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A.          THE COMPANY

         The  Company  is  currently  engaged  in  the  importation,   sale  and
distribution of men's belts, leather accessories, suspenders, and men's jewelry.
These  products  are sold both  domestically  and  internationally,  principally
through  department  stores, and also through a wide variety of specialty stores
and mass  merchandisers.  The Company also  operates a number of factory  outlet
stores primarily to distribute excess and out of line merchandise.

B.          SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

         The consolidated  financial  statements  include the accounts of Swank,
Inc. Amounts are in thousands except for share and per share data.  During 2001,
we ceased operations at our manufacturing  joint-venture in Cartago,  Costa Rica
and liquidated its assets. This subsidiary is presently inactive.

USE OF ESTIMATES

         The  preparation of financial  statements in conformity with accounting
principles   generally  accepted  in  the  United  States  of  America  requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and  liabilities  and disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial  statements  and the reported  amounts of revenues and
expenses  during the reporting  periods.  Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

         Net sales are generally  recorded upon shipment,  provided there exists
persuasive  evidence of an  arrangement,  the fee is fixed or  determinable  and
collectability  of the related  receivable  is reasonably  assured.  Allowances,
including cash discounts, in-store customer allowances,  cooperative advertising
allowances and customer returns,  which are all accounted for in accordance with
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 48, "Revenue  Recognition When
Right of Return  Exists"  and  Emerging  Issues  Task  Force  Issue  No.  01-09,
"Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer or Reseller of the
Vendor's Products", are provided for at the time the revenue is recognized based
upon historical experience, current trends in the retail industry and individual
customer and product  experience.  Each spring upon the completion of processing
returns from the preceding  fall season,  we record  adjustments to net sales in
the second quarter to reflect the difference  between  customer returns of prior
year  shipments  actually  received in the current year and the estimate used to
establish the allowance for customer  returns at the end of the preceding fiscal
year.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

         For purposes of the consolidated  statements of cash flows, we consider
all highly liquid instruments purchased with original maturities of three months
or less to be cash equivalents.

ALLOWANCES FOR ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

         Our  allowances  for  receivables  are  comprised  of  cash  discounts,
doubtful  accounts,  in-store  markdowns,  cooperative  advertising and customer
returns.   Provisions  for  doubtful  accounts  are  reflected  in  selling  and
administrative  expenses. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers
and maintain  allowances  for  potential  bad debt losses.  We do not  typically
require  collateral  from our  customers.  The  allowance  for customer  returns
results from the reversal of sales for estimated  returns and associated  costs.
Allowances  for  in-store  markdowns  and  cooperative  advertising  reflect the
estimated  costs of our share of certain  promotions  by our  retail  customers.
Allowances  for accounts  receivable  are generally at their  seasonal  highs on
December 31.  Reductions of allowances occur principally in the first and second
quarters when the balances are adjusted to reflect  actual charges as processed.
Allowances for accounts  receivable  are estimates  made by management  based on
historical  experience,  adjusted  for current  conditions,  and may differ from
actual results. The provisions (recoveries) for bad debts in 2005, 2004 and 2003
were $63,000, $(13,000) and $(194,000), respectively.

29

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

         We sell products primarily to major retailers within the United States.
Our three largest customers  combined  accounted for approximately  38%, 37% and
30%,  respectively,  of consolidated  trade receivables (gross of allowances) at
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.

         In fiscal 2005,  net sales to our three  largest  customers,  Federated
Department  Stores,  Inc.  ("Federated"),   Kohl's  Department  Stores  and  TJX
Companies,  Inc.  ("TJX"),  accounted  for  approximately  23%,  10%,  and  10%,
respectively,  of our  consolidated  net sales.  In fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003,
Federated  accounted  for  approximately  23%  and  25%,  respectively,  and TJX
accounted for  approximately  10% and 11%,  respectively,  of  consolidated  net
sales. No other customer  accounted for more than 10% of consolidated  net sales
during fiscal years 2005,  2004 or 2003.  During 2005,  Federated  completed its
acquisition  of  the  May  Department  Stores  Company  and  accordingly,  these
statistics  reflect  our  sales to the  combined  company.  Exports  to  foreign
countries  accounted for  approximately  8% of consolidated  net sales in fiscal
2005, 7% in fiscal 2004, and less then 4% in fiscal 2003.

         In the normal course of our business,  we are theoretically  exposed to
interest rate change market risk with respect to borrowings  under our revolving
credit line. The seasonal nature of our business  typically requires us to build
inventories  during the course of the year in anticipation of heavy shipments to
retailers  for the upcoming  holiday  season.  Our revolving  credit  borrowings
generally  peak  during  the  third and  fourth  quarters.  Therefore,  a sudden
increase  in  interest  rates  (which  under our  revolving  credit  facility is
presently the prime rate plus 1.25% or LIBOR plus 3.75%) may,  especially during
peak borrowing periods,  have a negative impact on short-term  results.  We also
are  theoretically  exposed to market risk with respect to changes in the global
price level of certain  commodities  used in the production of our products.  We
purchase  substantially  all of our men's personal  leather items and belts from
third-party suppliers. An unanticipated material increase in the market price of
leather could  increase the cost of these  products to us and  therefore  have a
negative effect on our results.

         We purchase  substantially all of our small leather goods,  principally
wallets,  from a single supplier in India.  Unexpected disruption of this source
of supply could have an adverse  effect on our small leather  goods  business in
the  short-term  depending  upon  our  inventory  position  and on the  seasonal
shipping requirements at that time. However, we believe that alternative sources
for small leather goods are available and could be utilized by us within several
months.  We also  purchase  substantially  all of our  finished  belts and other
accessories  from a number of  suppliers  in the United  States and  abroad.  We
believe that alternative  suppliers are readily  available for substantially all
such purchased items.

INVENTORIES

         Inventories are stated at the lower of cost  (principally  average cost
which  approximates  FIFO) or market. Our inventory is somewhat fashion oriented
and, as a result, is subject to risk of rapid obsolescence.  Management believes
that inventory has been adequately adjusted, where appropriate, and that we have
adequate channels to dispose of excess and obsolete inventory.

PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

         Property,  plant and  equipment  are  stated at cost.  We  provide  for
depreciation  of plant  and  equipment  by  charges  against  income  which  are
sufficient  to write off the cost of the assets over  estimated  useful lives of
10-45  years for  buildings  and  improvements  and 3-12  years  for  machinery,
equipment  and  software.  Improvements  to leased  premises are  amortized on a
straight-line  basis over the shorter of the useful life of the  improvement  or
the term of the lease.

         Expenditures for maintenance and repairs and minor renewals are charged
to expense;  betterments and major renewals are capitalized.  Upon  disposition,
cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts with any
related gain or loss reflected in results of operations.

         We review the carrying  value of our  long-lived  assets in  accordance
with  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 144,  Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived  Assets,  whenever events and circumstances
indicate  that the assets might be impaired  and the  carrying  value may not be
recoverable.  Recoverability  of these assets is measured by  comparison  of the
carrying  value of the assets to the  undiscounted  cash flows  estimated  to be
generated by those assets over their remaining economic life. If such assets are
considered impaired, the impairment loss is measured by comparing the fair value
of the assets to their  carrying  values.  Fair value is  determined by either a
quoted market price or a value  determined by a

                                       30

discounted  cash  flow  technique,  whichever  is  more  appropriate  under  the
circumstances  involved.  During the  fourth  quarter  of 2003,  we reduced  the
carrying value of certain  machinery and equipment at our Norwalk,  CT facility,
to its estimated fair market value, and recognized an expense of $99,000,  which
was included in restructuring expenses for the year ending December 31, 2003.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

         The  carrying  amounts of  financial  instruments,  including  cash and
equivalents,  accounts receivable,  accounts payable, accrued expenses and notes
payable  approximated  fair value as of December 31, 2005 and 2004.  Included on
the balance sheet in prepaid and other current assets are  securities  available
for sale,  stated at fair market value, of approximately  $13,000 and $15,000 at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

ADVERTISING COSTS

         The Company charges  advertising costs to expense as they are incurred.
Total  expenditures  charged to advertising  expense during 2005, 2004, and 2003
were $2,019,000, $2,367,000, and $1,982,000, respectively.

ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS

         In accordance  with AICPA  Statement of Position  96-1,  "Environmental
Remediation  Liabilities",  environmental  expenditures  that  relate to current
operations are expensed or capitalized, as appropriate. Expenditures that relate
to an existing condition caused by past operations,  and which do not contribute
to current or future revenue generation, are expensed.  Liabilities are recorded
when  environmental  assessments  and/or  remedial  efforts are probable and the
costs can be reasonably  estimated.  Generally,  adjustments  to these  accruals
coincide with the completion of a feasibility  study or a commitment  made by us
to a formal  plan of action or other  appropriate  benchmark  (see Note I to the
consolidated financial statements for additional discussion).

INCOME TAXES

         We utilize the liability  method of accounting for income taxes.  Under
the liability  method,  deferred  taxes are  determined  based on the difference
between the financial  statement and tax bases of assets and  liabilities  using
enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which the  differences  are expected
to reverse. Net deferred tax assets are recorded when it is more likely than not
that such tax benefits  will be realized.  A valuation  allowance is recorded to
reflect the estimated realization of the deferred tax asset.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

         We measure the cost of  employee  stock-based  compensation  associated
with the stock option  plans  described  in Note H using the  "intrinsic  value"
method.  Under this method,  the incremental  fair value of our common stock, if
any, at the date of grant over the exercise price is charged to expense over the
period that the  employee  provides  the  associated  services.  We disclose the
information  required by SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation",
which includes information with respect to stock-based  compensation  determined
under the "fair  value"  method.  The Company  uses the  Black-Scholes  model to
determine  the fair  value of options  on the grant  date for  purposes  of this
disclosure.

         We grant stock  options for a fixed number of shares to employees  with
an  exercise  price  equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of grant,
and account for  stock-based  compensation  for  employees  in  accordance  with
Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees (APB 25), and follow the  disclosure-only  alternative  under SFAS 123
(see Note H).

Had compensation  expense for the Company's stock plans been determined
consistent  with SFAS 123, the pro forma net income  (loss) per share would have
been as follows:

                                       31

For  options  granted  in 2005,  2004 and 2003,  the  Company  used the
Black-Scholes  model to calculate  the estimated  weighted  average fair values,
assuming  no  dividends,   which  were  approximately  $1.23,  $.29,  and  $.14,
respectively,  using a risk-free rate of 6.5%, and an expected volatility of 99%
in each  year,  and  expected  lives of 5 years in each of 2005,  2004 and 2003,
respectively.

NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE

         Net income (loss) per common share or basic  earnings per share amounts
are adjusted to include,  where  appropriate,  shares held by our employee stock
ownership plan and deemed to be allocated to participants. Net income (loss) per
share  assuming  full dilution  includes the effects of options and  convertible
securities  issued by the Company.  For the year ended December 31, 2003,  basic
net loss per share is equal to fully diluted net loss per share as the effect of
all options is anti-dilutive.  For periods in which there is net income, diluted
earnings per share is determined by using the weighted  average number of common
and dilutive common equivalent shares  outstanding  during the period unless the
effect is  antidilutive.  Potentially  dilutive  common  shares  consist  of the
incremental  common shares that would be issuable  upon the assumed  exercise of
stock  options  and the  conversion  of  convertible  securities.  Approximately
540,000 and 485,000 common shares  issuable upon the exercise of options and the
assumed conversion of convertible securities were included in the calculation of
diluted  earnings  per share for the fiscal  years ended  December  31, 2005 and
2004,  respectively.  Approximately  94,000  common  shares  issuable  upon  the
exercise of options were excluded from the  calculation of diluted  earnings per
share for the fiscal year ended  December 31,  2003,  as their effect would have
been antidilutive. We had options for 363,334 shares of common stock outstanding
at December 31, 2005 with exercise prices ranging from $.17 to $1.60.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

         Reporting  comprehensive  income  (loss)  requires  that certain  items
recognized under generally accepted accounting  standards as separate components
of stockholders'  equity be reported as comprehensive income (loss) in an annual
financial  statement  that is displayed  with the same  prominence  as the other
annual  financial  statements.  This  statement  also  requires  that an  entity
classify items of other comprehensive income (loss) by their nature in an annual
financial  statement and display the accumulated  balance of other comprehensive
income separately from retained earnings and additional capital in excess of par
value in the equity section of the balance sheet. Reportable other comprehensive
income  (loss)  was  $(46,000),  $36,000  and  $25,000  in 2005,  2004 and 2003,
respectively.  Income (loss) in these years resulted  primarily from adjustments
associated with unrecognized  actuarial gains and losses relating to our defined
benefit plan and from  unrealized  gains  (losses) on  securities  available for
sale.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

         Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to be consistent with
the current year's presentation.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

         In December 2004,  the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board ("FASB")
issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004, "SFAS 123R"),  Share-Based Payment. SFAS 123R
addresses the accounting for share-based payments to employees, including grants
of employee stock options.  Under the new standard,  companies will no longer be
able to account for share-based  compensation  transactions  using the intrinsic
method in  accordance  with APB Opinion No. 25,  Accounting

                                       32

For Stock Issued To Employees.  Instead,  companies  will be required to account
for such transactions using a fair-value method and recognize the expense in the
consolidated statement of operations.  Under the original guidance of SFAS 123R,
we were to adopt the  statement's  provisions for the interim  period  beginning
after June 15,  2005.  However,  in April 2005,  as a result of an action by the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission,  companies  were  allowed  to  adopt  the
provisions  of SFAS 123R at the beginning of their fiscal year that begins after
June 15, 2005. Consequently, we will adopt SFAS 123R effective January 1, 2006.

         In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff  Accounting  Bulletin No. 107 ("SAB
107")  regarding  the SEC's  interpretation  of SFAS 123R and the  valuation  of
share-based payments for public companies. We are evaluating the requirements of
SFAS 123R and SAB 107 and expect that the  adoption of SFAS 123R will not have a
material  impact  on our  consolidated  financial  statements  since  all of our
outstanding stock options are currently vested.  However,  depending upon future
share-based  payment activity,  SFAS 123R could have a material impact on future
financial statements.

         In May 2005,  FASB issued SFAS No.  154,  Accounting  Changes and Error
Corrections:  a Replacement of Accounting  Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 20
and FASB Statement No. 3 ("SFAS 154"). SFAS 154 requires that a voluntary change
in accounting  principles be retrospectively  applied to prior periods unless it
is  impracticable  to  do  so.  Retrospective   application  would  require  the
application of a different  accounting  principle to previously issued financial
statements as if that principle had always been used. The  requirements  of SFAS
154 are effective for accounting  changes made in fiscal years  beginning  after
December  15,  2005.  We did not  change  nor are we  considering  a  change  in
accounting principles in fiscal 2006 and accordingly,  we do not expect that the
adoption of SFAS 154 will have a significant impact on our financial  condition,
results of operations, or cash flows.

         In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs ("SFAS
151"), an amendment of Accounting  Research Bulletin No. 43 ("ARB 43"),  Chapter
4, Inventory Pricing.  SFAS 151 amends previous guidance regarding  treatment of
abnormal  amounts  of  idle  facility  expense,  freight,  handling  costs,  and
spoilage.  This  statement  requires  that those items be  recognized as current
period  charges  regardless  of whether they meet the criterion of "so abnormal"
which  was the  criterion  specified  in ARB 43.  In  addition,  this  Statement
requires  that  allocation  of  fixed  production  overheads  to the cost of the
production  be based on  normal  capacity  of the  production  facilities.  This
pronouncement is effective for fiscal periods  beginning after June 15, 2005. We
do not believe that the adoption of SFAS 151 will have a material  impact on our
financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

C.          RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

         During the first  quarter of 2005,  we paid the  landlord of our former
Norwalk,  Connecticut belt manufacturing  facility $925,000 to settle all of our
remaining  obligations under the lease termination agreement signed in 2004 (see
below). As a result of this prepayment, we recorded a gain of $75,000 during the
first  quarter to recognize the  difference  between the amount of the liability
outstanding at December 31, 2004 under the  termination  agreement and the final
amount paid.  The gain is stated  separately  in our  consolidated  statement of
operations.

         During the first quarter of 2004, we entered into an agreement with the
landlord of our former Norwalk  facility under which the lease for that facility
was  terminated  effective  April 1, 2004. We paid $250,000 to the landlord upon
the signing of the termination agreement and an additional $250,000 on April 30,
2004.  The agreement also provided for payments to the landlord of an additional
$1,000,000,  in installments,  during the period from January 2005 through March
2006. Our estimated aggregate remaining  liabilities under the lease, had it not
been  terminated,  would have been  approximately  $2,586,000.  During 2004,  we
recorded a net gain of  $1,090,000  consisting of a $3,348,000  gain  associated
with the recognition of the remaining  balance of a deferred gain on real estate
offset  in  part  by  $2,084,000  in  costs  related  to the  lease  termination
(including  $1,500,000 in lease termination costs,  $455,000 in asset impairment
charges,  and  $129,000  for other  plant  closing  expenses),  and  $174,000 in
severance   and  related   expenses   recorded  in   connection   with  employee
terminations.  The net gain was stated separately in our consolidated  statement
of operations (as noted above, we settled all of the remaining obligations under
the termination agreement during the first quarter of 2005).

         During the second  quarter of 2004,  we recorded an expense of $589,000
in connection with the write-off of deferred  financing costs, early termination
fees and other charges related to the termination of the prior loan and security
agreement.  These  expenses  were  included  in  interest  expense  in our  2004
consolidated statement of operations.

                                       33

During  the  fourth  quarter  of  2004,  we also  recorded  a  non-cash
impairment charge of $362,000 in connection with certain fixed assets associated
with our  former  jewelry  manufacturing  facility  and  administrative  offices
located  in  Attleboro,  Massachusetts.  We  ceased  our  jewelry  manufacturing
operations in 2000 but until the fourth quarter of 2004, the Attleboro  building
continued  to  house  our  main  administrative  offices.  We  consolidated  our
remaining administrative staff into our Taunton,  Massachusetts location and are
currently  assessing  alternative  uses  or the  disposition  of  the  Attleboro
property.  The impairment  charge was included as an expense in our consolidated
statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.

         During  the  fourth  quarter  of 2003,  we  discontinued  manufacturing
operations  at our Norwalk  facility and began  sourcing the balance of our belt
and suspender  merchandise  requirements from third-party vendors. In connection
with the plant  closure,  we recorded  and included in cost of goods sold during
the fourth quarter  $1,360,000 in charges associated with obsolete raw materials
and supplies. In addition, we also recorded during the fourth quarter a $280,000
restructuring  charge  associated with severances and other expenses incurred in
connection with the plant closure. The restructuring charge is stated separately
in the  accompanying  consolidated  statements of operations for the year ending
December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, $181,000 had been paid representing all
of the severance  liability payable to the affected  employees and an additional
$99,000  was  recorded  as a reduction  in the cost basis of the  machinery  and
equipment formerly used in our belt and suspender manufacturing  operations,  to
reflect their estimated fair market values.

D.          SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      (Dollars in thousands)                        2005         2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
At December 31:

  Total lines                                      $25,000    $25,000
  Weighted average interest rate                      8.50%      6.50%
For the year:

  Monthly average borrowing outstanding             14,241     13,066
  Maximum borrowing outstanding at any month end    19,091     18,124
  Monthly interest rate (weighted average)            8.38%      7.17%
Balance outstanding at December 31                   8,264     11,301
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         The average  amounts  outstanding and weighted  average  interest rates
during each year are based on average  monthly  balances  outstanding  under our
revolving credit facility for seasonal working capital needs.

         The  Company's  revolving  credit  line  is  provided  by  Wells  Fargo
Foothill, Inc. ("WFF") under a $25,000,000 Loan and Security Agreement signed on
June 30, 2004 (the "2004 Loan  Agreement").  The 2004 Loan Agreement  replaced a
previous  loan and security  agreement  with a prior lender that was  terminated
during  2004  (the  "2003  Loan   Agreement").   The  2004  Loan   Agreement  is
collateralized   by  substantially  all  of  our  assets,   including   accounts
receivable,  inventory,  and machinery and  equipment.  The 2004 Loan  Agreement
contains a  $5,000,000  sublimit  for the issuance of letters of credit and also
prohibits us from paying  dividends,  imposes limits on additional  indebtedness
for borrowed money, and contains minimum monthly EBITDA requirements.  The terms
of the 2004 Loan Agreement  permit us to borrow against a percentage of eligible
accounts  receivable  and eligible  inventory at an interest rate based on Wells
Fargo Bank,  N.A.'s  prime  lending  rate plus 1.25% or at WFF's LIBOR rate plus
3.75% or 8.50% and 8.15%,  respectively at December 31, 2005. We are required to
pay a monthly unused line fee of .5% of the maximum revolving credit amount less
the average daily balance of loans and letters of credit  outstanding during the
immediately preceding month. During the quarter ended June 30, 2004, the Company
recorded an expense of $589,000 in  connection  with the  write-off  of deferred
financing  costs,  early  termination  fees and  other  charges  related  to the
termination  of the 2003 Loan  Agreement  (see Note C,  "Restructuring  Costs").
These expenses are included in interest expense in our consolidated statement of
operations for 2004. As of December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance with
all financial covenants contained within the 2004 Loan Agreement.

34

E.          INCOME TAXES

The components of income taxes are as follows:

At December  31,  2005,  we had federal  and state net  operating  loss
carryforwards of approximately  $4,242,000 and $18,298,000  which expire through
2023 and 2010, respectively.  The alternative minimum tax credit carryforward of
approximately  $767,000 at December 31, 2005,  currently does not expire.  These
loss and credit  carryforwards  are available to reduce future federal and state
taxable  income,  if any.  These loss  carryforwards  are  subject to review and
possible adjustment by the appropriate taxing  authorities.  These losses may be
subject to the  Internal  Revenue  Service  Code  Section 382  limitation  which
imposes an annual  limitation  on the use of these  losses if certain  ownership
changes occur.

                                       35

We monitor the  realization of our deferred tax assets based on changes
in  circumstances,  for  example,  recurring  periods of income for tax purposes
following  historical  periods  of  cumulative  losses or changes in tax laws or
regulations. Our income tax provision and our assessment of the realizability of
our  deferred  tax assets  involve  significant  judgments  and  estimates.  Our
valuation  reserve  is  recorded  based  upon the  uncertainty  surrounding  the
realizability of deferred tax assets as they can only be realized via profitable
operations.  If we  continue  to  generate  taxable  income  through  profitable
operations in future years,  we may be required to recognize  these deferred tax
assets through the reduction of the valuation  allowance which would result in a
material benefit to our results of operations in the period in which the benefit
is determined.

F.          LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

Long-term obligations at December 31, were as follows:

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 (Dollars in thousands)                                   2005        2004
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Benefits under 1987 Deferred Compensation
  Plan and Postretirement benefits (See Note G)          $ 4,976    $ 4,777
Environmental liabilities (See Note I)                     1,335      1,383
Supplemental death benefits                                   38         49
Obligation on property sublease                              468        553
Note payable on lease termination (See Notes C and I)          -      1,000
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total long-term obligations, including current portion     6,817      7,762
Less current portion                                      (1,000)    (1,443)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS                              $ 5,817    $ 6,319
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

G.          EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

         Effective  January 1, 1994,  we amended and  restated  the Swank,  Inc.
Employees'  Stock  Ownership  Plan in a merger with the Swank,  Inc.  Employees'
Stock Ownership Plan No. 2 and the Swank,  Inc. Savings Plan. The combined plans
became The New Swank, Inc.  Retirement Plan (the "Plan").  The Plan incorporates
the  characteristics  of the three predecessor plans,  covers  substantially all
full time employees and reflects management's  continued desire to provide added
incentives and to enable  employees to acquire  shares of our common stock.  The
cost of the Plan has been borne by the Company.

         The  savings  (401(k))  component  of the Plan  provides  employees  an
election  to reduce  taxable  compensation  through  contributions  to the Plan.
Matching  cash  contributions  from the Company are  determined  annually at the
Board's  discretion.  Shares of Common  Stock  acquired  by the stock  ownership
component of the Plan are allocated to participating  employees to the extent of
contributions to the Plan, as determined annually at the discretion of the Board
of Directors, and are vested on a prescribed schedule.  Expenses associated with
contributions to the Plan were $122,000, $218,000, and $17,000 in 2005, 2004 and
2003,  respectively.  At December  31,  2005 and 2004,  the Plan held a total of
2,987,822  and 3,172,930  shares,  respectively,  of the  Company's  outstanding
common  stock,  including  39,337 shares at December 31, 2005 that have not been
allocated to participants.  The Plan held no unallocated  shares at December 31,
2004.  From time to time, we make loans to the Plan at an interest rate equal to
the Prime  lending rate plus 2  percentage  points per annum to provide the Plan
with  liquidity,  primarily  to enable  the Plan to make  distributions  of cash
rather than shares to former employees.  Total outstanding  obligations due from
the  Plan at  December  31,  2005  were  $120,000.  There  were  no  outstanding
obligations due from the plan at December 31, 2004.

         In October 1999,  the Plan's 401(k)  Savings and Stock  Ownership  Plan
Committee  authorized  the repurchase by the Plan of up to 600,000 shares of the
Company's  common stock.  Purchases will be made at the discretion of the Plan's
trustees from time to time in the open market and through  privately  negotiated
transactions,  subject to general market and other  conditions.  Repurchases are
intended  to be financed by the Plan with its own funds and from any future cash
contributions  made by us to the Plan.  Shares  acquired will be used to provide
benefits to employees under the terms of the Plan. Since the repurchase plan was
authorized in October 1999, the Plan has repurchased  96,666 shares.  There were
no shares purchased during 2005 or 2004.

         We provide  postretirement  life  insurance,  supplemental  pension and
medical  benefits  for  certain  groups of active  and  retired  employees.  The
postretirement  medical  plan  is  contributory,   with  contributions  adjusted
annually;  the  death  benefit  is  noncontributory.  We  recognize  the cost of
postretirement  benefits  over the period in which they are earned and  amortize
the

                                       36

transition  obligation for all plan participants on a straight-line basis over a
20 year period which began in 1993.

         The following  table sets forth a  reconciliation  of the beginning and
ending balances of our  postretirement  benefits and defined  benefits under our
1987 Deferred Compensation Plan described below:

(1)  Amounts  totaling  $344,000  and  $441,000  have been  included  in accrued
employee  compensation  as of  December  31,  2005 and 2004,  respectively.  The
remaining  balance has been  included in long-term  obligations  as set forth in
Note F.

         The weighted-average  discount rate used in determining the accumulated
benefit  obligations was 5.50%, 5.75%, and 5.75% at December 31, 2005, 2004, and
2003, respectively.  For measurement purposes, a 5.5% annual rate of increase in
the per capita cost of covered  Medicare  Part B health care benefits is assumed
for 2005 and all years  thereafter.  A 10.0%  annual rate of increase in the per
capita cost of AARP  Medicare  Supplemental  Coverage is assumed for 2005.  This
rate is assumed to decrease  gradually  to 5.0% in 2010 and remain at that level
thereafter.  As of the current  valuation  date, all  participants in the Pre-65
Continuation  of Medical  Coverage  program are age 65 or older,  therefore,  no
valuation is presented.

         The weighted-average  discount rate used in determining the accumulated
benefit  obligations  of the defined  benefit plan was 4.5%,  4.0%,  and 4.0% at
December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.  Net periodic pension costs for
the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005,  2004 and 2003 were  determined  using
discount rates of 4.0%, 4.0% and 4.5%, respectively.

         Net periodic postretirement and defined benefit cost for 2005, 2004 and
2003 included the following components:

We have multiple health care and life insurance  postretirement benefit
programs which are generally available to

                                       37

executives.  The health care plans are contributory (except for certain AARP and
Medicare Part B coverage) and the life insurance  plans are  noncontributory.  A
portion of the life  insurance  benefits are fully  insured  through  group life
coverage and the  remaining  life  benefits  are  self-insured.  Life  insurance
contracts have been purchased on the lives of certain employees in order to fund
postretirement  death benefits to beneficiaries of salaried  employees who reach
age 60 with ten years of service.  Proceeds from these contracts are expected to
be adequate to fund our obligations.  The cost of these contracts is included in
the annual postretirement cost shown above.

         Assumed  health care cost trend rates have a significant  effect on the
amounts reported for the health care plans. A  one-percentage  point decrease in
assumed  health care cost trend rates  would  decrease  the total of service and
interest cost by $7,000 and the  postretirement  benefit  obligation by $112,000
respectively,  while a one-percentage point increase would increase the total of
service and interest cost by $8,000 and the postretirement benefit obligation by
$127,000, respectively.

         In 1987,  we adopted a  deferred  compensation  plan (the "1987  Plan")
available  to certain key  executives  for the purpose of  providing  retirement
benefits.  Interest credited to participants'  accounts is paid at retirement in
the form of a monthly annuity over a period of ten years. All compensation  that
was deferred  under the 1987 Plan has been  returned to  participants.  The 1987
Plan was amended at the end of 1998 to change the method of  determining  future
interest credits on participants' accounts. Life insurance contracts intended to
fund 1987 Plan benefits  through future death proceeds had been purchased on the
lives of the participants  and on certain other employees.  These contracts were
surrendered  in  November  1998 with a  corresponding  reduction  in gross  cash
surrender value and policy loans as set forth below. In 1999, we determined that
it would be  advantageous  to place all remaining  participants in the 1987 Plan
who were not currently receiving benefits into payout status,  effective January
1, 2000.  Participants will receive benefit payments over ten years resulting in
the  elimination  of the Company's  liability  under the 1987 Plan by the end of
2009.

         We use loans  against  the policy cash values to pay part or all of the
annual life insurance premiums,  except for the variable life policies. The life
insurance  policies state that we have the legal right of offset.  The aggregate
gross cash  surrender  value of all policies was  approximately  $5,050,000  and
$5,697,000  at December  31, 2005 and 2004,  respectively,  which is included in
other  assets,  net of policy loans  aggregating  approximately  $1,986,000  and
$2,608,000  respectively.  We presently have no intention of repaying any policy
loans and expect that they will be liquidated  from future death  benefits or by
surrender of the policies.  Interest on policy loans  amounted to  approximately
$151,000,  $100,000 and $143,000 in 2005,  2004 and 2003,  respectively,  and is
included in the net costs of the various  plans  described  above.  The weighted
average  interest rate on policy loans was 6.6%,  4.0%, and 5.7% at December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

H.     STOCK OPTIONS

         In 1994,  we  established  a directors'  stock option plan  pursuant to
which options may be granted to non-employee directors to purchase 50,000 shares
of common stock at market value on the date of grant. Options granted under this
plan are for a period of five years and are immediately exercisable.  We granted
options  for 3,334,  3,334 and 3,333  shares of common  stock under this plan in
2005,  2004 and 2003,  respectively.  At December 31, 2005, all 50,000 shares of
common stock under the directors' plan had been issued.

         In April 1998, our  stockholders  approved the Swank,  Inc. 1998 Equity
Incentive Compensation Plan (the "1998 Plan") which replaced the Company's prior
incentive  stock plans,  all of which had expired by their terms.  The 1998 Plan
permits our Board of  Directors  to grant a maximum of  1,000,000  shares to key
employees through stock options,  stock  appreciation  rights,  restricted stock
units,  performance awards and other stock-based  awards. We granted options for
625,000 shares under the 1998 Plan in 2001. These shares vested immediately.  No
awards were granted by the Board in either 2005 or 2004. At December 31, 2005, a
total of 375,000 shares of common stock remain available for future grants under
the 1998 Plan.

                                       38

The following table summarizes stock option activity for the years 2003
through 2005:

For  options  granted  in 2005,  2004 and 2003,  the  Company  used the
Black-Scholes  model to calculate  the estimated  weighted  average fair values,
assuming  no  dividends,   which  were  approximately  $1.23,  $.29,  and  $.14,
respectively,  using a risk-free rate of 6.5%, and an expected volatility of 99%
in each  year,  and  expected  lives of 5 years in each of 2005,  2004 and 2003,
respectively.

         Options outstanding as of December 31, 2005 were as follows:

At December  31, 2005 and 2004,  all  outstanding  stock  options  were
exercisable  and the  weighted-average  exercise  prices  were  $.19  and  $.18,
respectively.

I.          COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

         We lease  certain  of our  warehousing,  sales and  office  facilities,
automobiles  and equipment  under  non-cancelable  long-term  operating  leases.
Certain of the leases provide  renewal options ranging from one to ten years and
escalation  clauses covering  increases in various costs.  Total rental expenses
amounted  to  $2,241,000,  $2,455,000  and  $3,248,000  in  2005,  2004 and 2003
respectively.

       Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases as of
December 31, 2005 are as follows:

 (Dollars in  thousands)
 ---------------------------------------------
 2006                                  $ 2,249
 2007                                    2,117
 2008                                    2,117
 2009                                    2,181
 2010                                    1,357
 Thereafter                                156
 ---------------------------------------------
 TOTAL MINIMUM PAYMENTS               $ 10,177
 ---------------------------------------------

39

During  2001,  we  completed  a sale  and  lease-back  for the  Norwalk
manufacturing  facility.  The sale-leaseback  transaction resulted in a deferred
gain of approximately $4,700,000 that was recorded on the Company's consolidated
balance  sheet at closing  and until April 2004,  was being  amortized  over the
lease term. In 2003, the Company  recorded  amortization  income as an offset to
the related rent expense included in cost of goods sold of $467,000.

         As  more  fully  described  in  Note  C,  "Restructuring  Charges",  we
terminated the lease on the Norwalk  facility  during the first quarter of 2004.
We paid $250,000 to the landlord upon the signing of the  termination  agreement
and an additional  $250,000 on April 30, 2004.  The  termination  agreement also
provided  for  payments  to  the  landlord  of  an  additional  $1,000,000,   in
installments,  during the period  from  January  2005  through  March  2006.  We
recorded a net gain on the termination of $1,090,000  consisting of a $3,348,000
gain associated with the recognition of the remaining balance of a deferred gain
on real  estate  offset  in part by  $2,084,000  in costs  related  to the lease
termination  (including $1,500,000 in lease termination costs, $455,000 in asset
impairment charges, and $129,000 for other plant closing expenses), and $174,000
in  severance  and  related  expenses   recorded  in  connection  with  employee
terminations.  The net gain was stated separately in our consolidated  statement
of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.  During the first quarter of
2005, we paid the landlord  $925,000 to settle all of our remaining  obligations
under the termination agreement. and recorded a gain of $75,000 to recognize the
difference between the amount of the liability  outstanding at December 31, 2004
under the termination agreement and the final amount paid.

         We own the  rights to  various  patents,  trademarks,  trade  names and
copyrights  and have  exclusive  licenses  in the  United  States  and,  in some
instances, in certain other jurisdictions. Our "Kenneth Cole", "Tommy Hilfiger",
"Nautica",  "Geoffrey  Beene",  "Claiborne",  "Guess?",  "Ted  Baker",  "City of
London",   "Pierre  Cardin",  "Donald  Trump"  and  "Field  &  Stream"  licenses
collectively may be considered  material to our business.  At December 31, 2005,
we are obligated to pay minimum  royalty and  advertising  under certain license
agreements  (including  minimum  royalty  and  advertising  obligations  on  our
"Nautica" and "Donald  Trump"  licenses  which were both executed  subsequent to
December  31,  2005  and  dated  as of  January  1,  2006)  as  follows:  2006 -
$9,046,000;  2007  -  $9,152,000;  2008  -  $9,362,000;  and  2009  -  $844,000.
Generally,  the  license  agreements  require  us to  provide  various  forms of
advertising  and  promotional  support  determined as a percentage of annual net
sales of licensed  merchandise and licensors generally retain audit rights for a
specified  period.  We also pay a percentage  of net sales to a consulting  firm
controlled by one of our directors in connection with license  agreements  which
that firm  introduced to us. Royalty  payments due by us in connection with this
agreement were approximately  $106,000,  $76,000 and $69,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,  respectively.  We regularly assess the status
of our license  agreements and anticipate  renewing those contracts  expiring in
2006, subject to the negotiation of terms and conditions satisfactory to us.

         On June 7, 1990,  the Company  received  notice from the United  States
Environmental  Protection Agency ("EPA") that it, along with fifteen others, had
been  identified as a Potentially  Responsible  Party ("PRP") in connection with
the  release  of   hazardous   substances   at  a  Superfund   Site  located  in
Massachusetts.  This notice does not constitute the commencement of a proceeding
against  the  Company or  necessarily  indicate  that a  proceeding  against the
Company  is  contemplated.  The  Company,  along  with  six  other  PRP's,  have
voluntarily entered into an Administrative  Order pursuant to which, inter alia,
they have  undertaken  to  conduct a  remedial  investigation/feasibility  study
("RI/FS") with respect to the alleged contamination at the site.

         The remedial  investigation  of the site has been completed and the EPA
has  prepared  its  Record of  Decision.  The  Massachusetts  Superfund  site is
adjacent to a municipal  landfill  that is in the process of being  closed under
Massachusetts  law.  Once the EPA and the PRPs  resolve an  outstanding  dispute
regarding  certain  oversight costs, we expect to receive  confirmation from the
EPA that we have  fulfilled  our  obligations  under the  Administrative  Order.
During fiscal 2005, we withdrew from further  participation in the PRP group. It
is  unlikely  that  this  matter  will  have a  material  adverse  effect on the
Company's operating results,  financial  condition or cash flows.  Historically,
the Company's share of the costs for the RI/FS was being allocated on an interim
basis at 12.52%.  Due to the  withdrawal of two PRP's,  however,  the respective
shares of these costs were reallocated  among the remaining members of the group
in 2004, increasing our allocation to 19.5% for any remaining costs. At December
31,  2005  and  2004  we  had  accrued  approximately  $966,000  and  $1,009,000
respectively  in  connection  with this site  based on the  assumption  that the
remaining  issues relating to obligations  incurred prior to our withdrawal from
the PRP group,  the  availability of federal funding and the allocation of costs
relating to the completion of the RI/FS,  among others,  may not be resolved for
many years and that significant  legal and technical fees and expenses may still
be incurred prior to such resolution.  We believe that we have adequate reserves
for the potential costs associated with this site.

                                       40

In September 1991, we signed a judicial  consent decree relating to the
Western Sand and Gravel site located in Burrillville and North Smithfield, Rhode
Island.  The consent  decree was entered on August 28, 1992 by the United States
District  Court for the District of Rhode Island.  The most likely  scenario for
remediation  of the ground  water at this site is through  natural  attenuation,
which will be monitored  until 2017.  Estimated  cost of  remediation by natural
attenuation to 2017 is approximately $1,500,000. Based on current participation,
our share of these costs is approximately $134,000 through 2017. At December 31,
2005 and 2004 we had accrued approximately  $369,000 and $374,000  respectively,
in connection with this site based on the results of tests conducted in 2000 and
1999  and  the  likelihood  that  the  remaining  issues   associated  with  the
remediation  of the site may not be resolved for several more years.  We believe
that the costs  related to the  remediation  of this site will not result in any
material adverse effect on our operating  results,  financial  condition or cash
flows based on the  results of  periodic  tests  conducted  at the site,  and we
believe we have adequately reserved for the potential costs associated with this
site.

         The estimated  liability for costs associated with environmental  sites
is included in long-term  obligations in the accompanying  consolidated  balance
sheets  (See Note F),  exclusive  of  additional  currently  payable  amounts of
approximately  $50,000 and $55,000 included in other current liabilities in 2005
and 2004, respectively.  These amounts have not been discounted. We believe that
the  accompanying   financial   statements   include   adequate   provision  for
environmental exposures.

         In the ordinary  course of  business,  we are  contingently  liable for
performance  under letters of credit of  approximately  $223,000 at December 31,
2005. We are required to pay a fee monthly  presently equal to 2.0% per annum on
the outstanding letter of credit.

         We are  also a party  to  employment  agreements  with  certain  of our
executive  officers  that  provide  for the  payment of  compensation  and other
benefits  during the term of each  executives'  employment  and,  under  certain
circumstances, for a period of time following their termination.

J.       PROMOTIONAL EXPENSES

         Substantial  expenditures  for advertising and promotion are considered
necessary to maintain  and enhance our  business  and, as described in Note I to
the  consolidated  financial  statements,  certain  license  agreements  require
specified levels of spending.  The Company charges  advertising costs to expense
as they are incurred.  Total  expenditures  charged to advertising and promotion
expense,  exclusive of cooperative advertising and display expenditures,  during
2005, 2004, and 2003 were $2,019,000, $2,367,000, and $1,982,000, respectively.

K.       DISCLOSURES ABOUT SEGMENTS OF AN ENTERPRISE AND RELATED INFORMATION

         We follow SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related  Information,  which  establishes  standards  for  the way  that  public
business  enterprises  report  information about operating  segments.  Operating
segments are defined as  components  of a company for which  separate  financial
information  is evaluated  regularly by the chief  operating  decision  maker in
deciding how to allocate resources and to assess financial  performance.  We are
engaged in one  business,  the sale of men's  accessories  consisting  of belts,
wallets and other small leather goods,  suspenders and jewelry.  Our company and
our customer  relationships are organized around this one business segment.  Our
products are sold principally  domestically  through  department stores and to a
lesser extent, through specialty stores and mass merchandisers.

L.     QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

       We  believe  that the  results of  operations  are more  meaningful  on a
seasonal  basis  (approximately   January-June  and  July-December)  than  on  a
quarterly  basis. The timing of shipments can be affected by the availability of
materials,  retail sales and fashion trends.  These factors may shift volume and
related earnings  between quarters within a season  differently in one year than
in another.

                                       41

M.       CONVERTIBLE NOTE DUE TO RELATED PARTY

         On April 1, 2004, Marshall Tulin, our former Chairman and a director of
the  Company,  loaned  $350,000  to  the  Company  pursuant  to the  terms  of a
subordinated  promissory  note, as amended and restated as of June 30, 2004 (the
"Note") issued by the Company to Mr. Tulin. The Note is expressly subordinate in
right of payment to the Company's  senior debt, has an original  maturity of two
years and bears  interest at an annual rate of 7.0%,  payable  quarterly.  Under
certain  circumstances,  as more  fully  set  forth in the  Note,  the  original
maturity  date of the Note will be extended to the earlier of December  31, 2009
or the  date  the  2004  Loan  Agreement  shall  have  been  terminated  and all
obligations of the Company under the 2004 Loan Agreement shall have been paid in
full in cash.

         On November  12,  2005,  Mr. Tulin died.  John Tulin,  President  and a
director of the Company,  and James Tulin,  Senior Vice President and a director
of the Company,  both sons of Marshall  Tulin,  are  co-executors of Mr. Tulin's
estate  (the  "Estate").  The Estate  has the option at any time to convert  the
principal  amount of the Note into  shares of our  common  stock  pursuant  to a
formula based on the greater of the aggregate market value of the Company or its
going concern  value as  determined by an investment  banking firm or nationally
recognized  accounting firm, on the conversion date. The number of shares of our
common  stock  that may be issued  under the Note may not exceed 20% of the then
issued and outstanding shares of our common stock on the conversion date. At our
option and subject to certain  provisions of the Note, we may prepay the Note at
any time without premium or penalty.

         Five  members  of Mr.  Tulin's  family  are  employed  by us in various
positions and are compensated for services rendered by them to us.

         We also pay a percentage of net sales to a consulting  firm  controlled
by one of our directors in connection  with license  agreements  which that firm
introduced to us. Royalty  payments due by us in connection  with this agreement
were  approximately  $106,000,  $76,000 and $69,000 for the years ended December
31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

                                       42

ITEM 9.           CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
                  AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

       None.

ITEM 9A.          CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

         We  carried  out an  evaluation,  under  the  supervision  and with the
participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness  as of  December  31,  2005 of the  design  and  operation  of our
disclosure  controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13 a-15. Based
upon that evaluation,  the Chief Executive  Officer and Chief Financial  Officer
concluded that our disclosure  controls and procedures are effective in alerting
them on a timely basis to material  information relating to the Company required
to be included in our periodic SEC filings.

         There were no changes to our internal control over financial  reporting
identified in connection with the foregoing  evaluation that occurred during the
three  months  ended  December  31,  2005 that has  materially  affected,  or is
reasonably  likely to materially  affect,  our internal  control over  financial
reporting.

ITEM 9B.          OTHER INFORMATION.

     Not applicable

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.          DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

       The  information  called for by this Item 10 with regard to our executive
officers (including executive officers who are also directors of the Company) is
set forth  following Part I in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption
"Executive  Officers  of the  Registrant."  Our  non-employee  directors  are as
follows:

       John J.  Macht,  who is 69 years  old,  has been  President  of The Macht
Group, a marketing and retail  consulting firm, since July 1992. From April 1991
until July 1992,  Mr.  Macht  served as Senior Vice  President  of Jordan  Marsh
Department Stores, a division of Federated Department Stores. Mr. Macht became a
director in 1995 and is chairman of the Audit Committee.

         Raymond Vise,  who is 84 years old,  served as Senior Vice President of
the Company for more than five years prior to his  retirement in 1987.  Mr. Vise
became a director in 1963 and is a member of the Audit Committee.

         We do not have an audit committee financial expert,  within the meaning
of the rules and  regulations  under the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as
amended (the  "Exchange  Act"),  serving on the Audit  Committee of the Board of
Directors.  In light of our operating results through 2003, we did not have much
success in attracting an acceptable audit committee financial expert to serve on
the Board's  Audit  Committee.  We expect that our results in 2004 and 2005 will
aid our efforts,  which continue,  to add an audit committee financial expert to
the Audit Committee.

SECTION 16(A) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

         The Exchange Act requires our  executive  officers and  directors,  and
persons who  beneficially  own more than 10% of the Company's  Common Stock,  to
file initial reports of ownership,  and reports of changes of ownership,  of our
equity securities with the Securities and Exchange Commission and furnish copies
of those reports to us. Based solely on a review of the copies of the statements
furnished to us to date,  or written  representations  that no  statements  were
required,  we believe that all  statements  required to be filed by such persons
with respect to our fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 were all timely filed.

CODE OF ETHICS

                                       43

We have adopted a Code of Conduct  that applies to our Chief  Executive
Officer,  Chief Financial  Officer,  Controller and all other persons performing
functions similar to those officers from time to time.

ITEM 11.          EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

       The following  table sets forth certain  summary  information for each of
our  fiscal  years  ended  December  31,  2005,  2004  and 2003  concerning  the
compensation of our chief executive  officer,  chairman of the board (who passed
away in  November  2005)  and each of our four  other  most  highly  compensated
executive officers:

(1) Mr. Tulin is a party to an  employment  agreement  with the Company which is
described   below  under  the  caption   "Employment   Contracts  and  Severance
Agreements".

(2) Mr. Luft's bonus amounts represent sales commissions. Mr. Luft is a party to
an  employment  agreement  with the Company  which is described  below under the
caption "Employment Contracts and Severance Agreements."

(3) Mr. Tulin's bonus amounts represent sales commissions.  Mr. Tulin is a party
to an employment  agreement with the Company which is described  below under the
caption "Employment Contracts and Severance Agreements".

(4) Mr. Goldfeder's bonus amounts represent sales commissions.

(5) Except as set forth for Marshall  Tulin,  John Tulin and James Tulin for the
years indicated,  perquisites and other personal benefits during 2005, 2004, and
2003 did not exceed the lesser of $50,000 or 10% of reported  annual  salary and
bonus for any of the Named Officers.

                                       44

(6) These amounts include a special  allowance of $43,200 in each of 2005, 2004,
and 2003.

(7) These  amounts  include  automobile  lease  payments of $19,288 and a travel
allowance of $10,800 in 2003.

(8) Mr. Tulin passed away on November 12, 2005.

(9)   These   amounts   include   financial   counseling   expenses   of  $9,170
automobile-related costs of $11,667.

(10)  Amounts in this column for the fiscal  years ended  December  31, 2005 and
2004 represent  premiums paid by the Company on certain life insurance  policies
owned by the Company on the lives of the Named Officers (as defined below).

AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES IN LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR END OPTION VALUE
TABLE

         During the fiscal year ended  December 31, 2005,  no stock options were
granted to any of our  executive  officers  named in the table under the caption
"Summary  Compensation Table" above (the "Named Officers").  The following table
sets forth  information  with  respect  to the  number and value of  unexercised
options  held by the Named  Officers as of the end of fiscal  2005.  The closing
price of a share of our Common Stock on December 31, 2005 was $1.40.

(1)  Aggregate  market value of the shares of Common Stock  acquired at exercise
date less the exercise price of the options.

(2) Aggregate  market value of the shares of Common Stock covered by the options
at fiscal year end less the exercise price of such options.

COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS

         During  2005,  each  director  who is not a  full-time  employee  of or
consultant  to the  Company  received  an annual  director's  fee of $3,000  per
meeting of the Board and $3,000 per Board committee  meetings attended by him in
person.  Each  director who is not a full-time  employee of or consultant to the
Company  also  received  an annual  director's  fee of $1,500 per meeting of the
Board  and   $1,500  per  Board   committee   meetings   attended   by  him  via
teleconference.  In  addition,  pursuant  to the terms of our 1994  Non-Employee
Director  Stock  Option  Plan (the  "1994  Plan"),  each  director  who is not a
full-time employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company and who is in
office  immediately  following  each  annual  meeting of  stockholders  at which
directors are elected, will, as of the date such meeting is held,  automatically
be granted an option to purchase  1,667 shares of Common  Stock.  During  fiscal
2005,  Messrs.  Macht and Vise were each  granted  an option to  purchase  1,667
shares of Common Stock at an exercise price per share of $1.60,  the fair market
value per share of Common Stock on the date of the grant.

EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS AND SEVERANCE AGREEMENTS

         We were a party to an employment  agreement  with Marshall  Tulin,  our
former  Chairman of the Board who passed away in November  2005,  under which he
received a base salary of $250,000  per annum.  We are a party to an  employment
agreement  with John Tulin,  which  terminates on December 31, 2006.  Under this
agreement,  Mr.  Tulin is employed  as Chief  Executive  Officer  and  initially
received a base salary of $410,000 per year, plus such additional  compensation,
if any,  as the  Board of  Directors  determine.  Mr.  Tulin's  base  salary  is
presently $460,000.  In addition,  the we are a party to an employment agreement
with James Tulin,  which  terminates on December 31, 2006, and under which he is
employed as Senior Vice  President-Merchandising,  and receives a base salary of
$285,000 per year,  plus such additional  compensation,  if any, as the Board of
Directors shall determine. Mr. Tulin's base salary is presently $357,000.

                                       45

We are also a party to an amended and restated employment agreement, as
amended to date,  with Eric P. Luft,  pursuant  to which Mr. Luft is employed as
Senior Vice President - Men's Division until September 30, 2006. The term of the
employment  agreement  will  automatically  be extended until June 30, 2007, and
then for  successive  additional  periods  of one year  until  the next June 30,
unless at least 30 days prior to the then current  expiration  date (on or prior
to September  15, 2006 with regard to the September  30, 2006  expiration  date)
either  we or Mr.  Luft  shall  determine  not to  extend  the  term.  Under the
agreement,  Mr. Luft is entitled to receive a base salary of $144,000  per year,
such additional compensation, if any, as the Board of Directors shall determine,
for each calendar year  thereafter,  plus annual  commission  compensation in an
amount  equal to the greater of (i) $128,000  and (ii)  commission  compensation
calculated  and  payable  in  accordance   with  any   commission   compensation
arrangement  that  may  exist  from  time  to  time  between  us and  Mr.  Luft.
Furthermore,  in the event we terminate Mr. Luft's employment  without cause, we
have agreed to pay to Mr. Luft $272,000 plus an additional amount equal to a pro
rata portion of $272,000 for the number of months from the  preceding  July 1 to
the  last day of the  calendar  month in which  his  employment  is  terminated.
However,  the agreement  provides that if his employment is terminated and he is
entitled to receive amounts under his  termination  agreement with us (described
in the next  paragraph),  Mr. Luft must choose to receive either (i) the amounts
he may be entitled to under his employment agreement, or (ii) the amounts he may
be  entitled  to under  his  termination  agreement,  but not both  amounts.  In
addition,  we are parties to an agreement with Jerold R. Kassner under which, if
we  terminate  Mr.  Kassner's  employment  for  any  reason  other  than  cause,
disability or death,  he will be entitled to receive,  among other  things,  his
base salary (subject to reduction in certain circumstances) plus certain medical
benefits for him and his family for up to one-year after termination.

         The Company has entered into termination  agreements with Messrs.  John
Tulin, James Tulin, Eric P. Luft, Melvin Goldfeder,  and Jerold R. Kassner,  and
was a party to a termination  agreement  with  Marshall  Tulin before his death.
Each  termination  agreement  contains an  automatic  annual  extension  on each
December 31 unless the Company shall have given 30 days written  notice prior to
the then current expiration date that there shall be no extension.  In the event
of a change in control of the Company (as defined in such agreements) during the
term of such agreements,  followed by a significant change in the duties, powers
or conditions of employment of any such officer,  the officer may within 2 years
thereafter terminate his employment and receive a lump sum payment equal to 2.99
times the  officer's  "base  amount" (as  defined in Section  280G (b)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended).

TERMINATED PENSION PLANS

         In 1983, we terminated  our pension plans covering  salaried  employees
and salesmen and purchased  annuities  from the assets of those plans to provide
for the payment  (commencing at age 62) of accrued  benefits of those  employees
who were not  entitled  to or did not elect to receive  lump sum  payments.  The
accrued  annual  benefits  for  Messrs.  John  Tulin,  James  Tulin,  and Melvin
Goldfeder are $13,116, $10,407, and $12,230, respectively.

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION

         The  Executive  Compensation  Committee  of the Board of  Directors  is
charged with recommending the annual  compensation,  including bonuses,  for our
executive  officers who are also directors and for our Chief Financial  Officer.
The Executive  Compensation  Committee  consists of John Macht and Raymond Vise.
The  Stock  Option   Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors   administers  our
compensation  plans  under which stock and  stock-based  compensation  have been
awarded other than for our 1998 Equity  Incentive  Compensation  Plan (the "1998
Plan"), which is administered by the entire Board of Directors. The Stock Option
Committee consists of John Macht and Raymond Vise.

         Under  agreements  between the us and The Macht Group,  a marketing and
retail  consulting  firm of which John J. Macht serves as  President,  The Macht
Group is entitled to receive  compensation  based on net sales of products under
license agreements entered into between us and licensors introduced to us by The
Macht Group, and in certain  instances,  based on net sales of specified private
label  products.  Aggregate  compensation  earned by The Macht  Group under this
arrangement during 2005 was $105,511.

ITEM 12.          SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
                  MANAGEMENT.

OWNERSHIP OF VOTING SECURITIES

                                       46

The following table sets forth information as of February 28, 2006 with
respect to each  person  (including  any "group" as that term is used in Section
13(d)(3) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as amended  ("the  Exchange
Act")) who is known to the Company to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of
the Common Stock:

- ---------------------

    (1) This amount  includes  1,049,234  shares of Common  Stock  allocated  to
    participants'   accounts  in  The  New  Swank,  Inc.  Retirement  Plan  (the
    "Retirement Plan") and as to which such participants may direct the trustees
    of the Retirement Plan as to voting on all matters.

    (2) This amount also includes  1,704,341 shares of Common Stock allocated to
    participants'  accounts in the Retirement Plan as to which  participants may
    direct  the  trustees  as to voting  only on certain  significant  corporate
    events and as to which the trustees  may vote on all other  matters in their
    discretion,  and 39,337  unallocated  shares  which the trustees may vote in
    their  discretion.  Shares  allocated to such accounts as to which no voting
    instructions are received are required to be voted in the same proportion as
    shares  allocated to accounts as to which voting  instructions are received.
    This  amount  also  includes  194,910  shares  held in  accounts  under  the
    Retirement  Plan as to which  participants  may  direct the  trustees  as to
    voting  on all  matters  and may be  disposed  of in the  discretion  of the
    trustees.

    (3) John A. Tulin, President and a director of the Company and Raymond Vise,
    a director of the Company,  are  co-trustees  of the Retirement  Plan.  This
    amount includes  1,704,341  shares held in accounts as to which the trustees
    have sole voting power as to certain matters (see footnote 2 above);  39,337
    unallocated  shares  which the trustees  may vote in their  discretion;  and
    194,910  shares  held in  accounts  under the  Retirement  Plan which may be
    disposed of in the discretion of the trustees (see footnote 2 above).

    (4) This amount  includes  1,060 shares owned by Mr.  Tulin's  wife,  10,000
    shares held jointly by Mr. Tulin and his wife,  and 2,333 shares held by Mr.
    Tulin's daughter.  Mr. Tulin disclaims beneficial ownership of these shares.
    This amount also  includes  50,000  shares  which Mr. Tulin has the right to
    acquire  within 60 days through the exercise of stock options  granted under
    the 1998  Plan  and  25,978  shares  allocated  to his  accounts  under  the
    Retirement Plan.

    (5) This  amount  includes  366,403  shares of  Common  Stock  (the  "Estate
    Shares") held by the Estate of Marshall  Tulin (the  "Estate"),  as to which
    Mr. Tulin acts as a  co-executor.  Mr. Tulin shares  voting and  dispositive
    power as to the Estate  Shares.  The Estate Shares include (a) 14,546 shares
    of Common Stock held in Marshall Tulin's accounts under the Retirement Plan,
    and (c) 167,464 shares issuable to the Estate within 60 days upon conversion
    of the Note as more particularly  described below under the caption "Certain
    Relationships and Related  Transactions."  At the Estate's option,  the Note
    may be  converted  into a number  of  shares  equal  to (i) the  outstanding
    principal  amount of the Note on the  conversion  date  divided  by (ii) the
    quotient a (A) the going  concern  value of the  Company  (as defined in the
    Note) divided by (B) the number of issued and  outstanding  common shares as
    of that date.  The maximum  number of shares that may be issued  pursuant to
    the Note is 20% of the issued and  outstanding  shares of the  Company  (the
    number of shares of Common Stock into which the Note is convertible is based
    assumes a going  concern  value of the  Corporation  on February 28, 2006 of
    $12,031,804  based on the  closing  price per  share of Common  Stock in the
    over-the-counter  market on the last  trading day prior to such  date).  Mr.
    Tulin disclaims beneficial ownership of the Estate Shares.

    (6) This  amount  includes  6,667  shares  which  Mr.  Vise has the right to
    acquire  within 60 days through the exercise of stock options  granted under
    the 1994 Plan.

47

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT

The  following  table sets forth  information  at  February  28,  2006 as to the
ownership of shares of our Common Stock,  our only  outstanding  class of equity
securities,  with respect to (a) each of our directors  (b) each Named  Officer,
and (c) all of our  directors  and  executive  officers as a group (8  persons).
Unless otherwise indicated, each person named below and each person in the group
named below has sole voting and dispositive  power with respect to the shares of
Common Stock indicated as beneficially owned by such person or such group.

* Less than one (1%) percent.

- -----------------------------------
(1) Includes  6,667  shares  which Mr. Macht has the right to acquire  within 60
days through the exercise of stock options under the 1994 Plan.

(2)  Includes  the Estate  Shares  referred  to in footnote 5 to the first table
above  under  the  caption  "Ownership  of  Voting  Securities,"  as to which he
disclaims beneficial ownership.  Also includes 75,000 shares which Mr. Tulin has
the right to  acquire  within 60 days  through  the  exercise  of stock  options
granted under the 1998 Plan, an aggregate of 142 shares held by his children and
an aggregate of 24,933  shares of Common Stock  allocated to his accounts  under
the Retirement Plan.

(3) Includes the shares  referred to in footnotes 3, 4, and 5 to the first table
above under the caption "Ownership of Voting Securities."

(4)  Includes  the shares  referred  to in  footnotes 3 and 6 to the first table
above under the caption "Ownership of Voting Securities."

(5) Includes  75,000  shares  which Mr. Luft has the right to acquire  within 60
days through the exercise of stock  options  granted  under the 1998 Plan and an
aggregate of 19,370 shares of Common Stock  allocated to his accounts  under the
Retirement Plan.

(6)  Includes an aggregate  of 20,532  shares of Common  Stock  allocated to Mr.
Goldfeder's accounts under the Retirement Plan.

(7) Includes  75,000 shares which Mr. Kassner has the right to acquire within 60
days through the exercise of stock  options  granted  under the 1998 Plan and an
aggregate of 5,692 shares of Common  Stock  allocated to his accounts  under the
Retirement Plan.

(8)  Reference  is made to  footnotes  (1) through  (7) above.  This amount also
includes  288,334 shares of Common Stock which directors and executive  officers
as a group have the right to acquire  within 60 days  through  the  exercise  of
stock options granted under the 1994 Plan and the 1998 Plan and 92,185 shares of
Common Stock allocated to their respective accounts under the Retirement Plan.

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION

                                       48

The  following  table sets forth certain  information  as of December 31,
2005 concerning our equity compensation plans:

---------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------------------- -----------------------------------
                                                                                                  NUMBER OF SECURITIES
                                                                                                       REMAINING
                                       NUMBER OF                                                     AVAILABLE FOR
                                     SECURITIES TO                                                  FUTURE ISSUANCE
                                       BE ISSUED                                                      UNDER EQUITY
                                          UPON                                                        COMPENSATION
                                      EXERCISE OF                WEIGHTED-AVERAGE                        PLANS
                                      OUTSTANDING               EXERCISE PRICE OF                      (EXCLUDING
                                        OPTIONS,                   OUTSTANDING                         SECURITIES
                                      WARRANTS AND              OPTIONS, WARRANTS                     REFLECTED IN
           PLAN CATEGORY                 RIGHTS                     AND RIGHTS                        COLUMN (a))
    ---------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------------------- -----------------------------------
                                           (a)                         (b)                                 (c)
                                                                                                   
        EQUITY COMPENSATION
         PLANS APPROVED BY
         SECURITY HOLDERS               363,334                        $.19                             375,000
    ---------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------------------- -----------------------------------
        EQUITY COMPENSATION
       PLANS NOT APPROVED BY
         SECURITY HOLDERS                  0                            0                                  0
    ---------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------------------- -----------------------------------
               TOTAL                    363,334                        $.19                             375,000
    ---------------------------- ----------------------- --------------------------------- -----------------------------------

ITEM 13.          CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

         A portion of the information called for by this Item 13 is set forth in
Item  11  Executive  Compensation  under  the  caption  "Compensation  Committee
Interlocks and Insider  Participation",  which  information is  incorporated  by
reference herein.

         Christine  Tulin (who is the daughter of John Tulin) was employed by us
during 2005 as Merchandise  Manager -- men's  jewelry.  Ms. Tulin is responsible
for the development of merchandise design and packaging concepts for our various
licensed and private label men's  jewelry  collections.  Aggregate  compensation
earned  by  Christine  Tulin for  services  rendered  during  2005  amounted  to
$143,333.

         Kathryn  Figueroa  (who is the sister of John Tulin) was employed by us
during 2005 as  southeast  regional  factory  outlet  manager.  Ms.  Figueroa is
responsible  for the  operation  of our factory  store  operations  covering the
southeastern  United States.  Aggregate  compensation earned by Kathryn Figueroa
for services rendered during 2005 amounted to $71,617.

         On April 1, 2004,  Marshall  Tulin,  our former  Chairman of the Board,
loaned  $350,000  to  the  Company  pursuant  to  the  terms  of a  subordinated
promissory note, as amended and restated as of June 30, 2004 (the "Note") issued
by the  Company to Mr.  Tulin.  The Note is  expressly  subordinate  in right of
payment to the Company's senior debt, has an original  maturity of two years and
bears  interest  at an annual rate of 7.0%,  payable  quarterly.  Under  certain
circumstances,  as more fully set forth in the Note, the original  maturity date
of the Note will be extended to the earlier of December 31, 2009 or the date our
present bank loan  agreement is terminated  and all  obligations  of the Company
under that loan agreement are paid in full in cash. The Estate has the option at
any time to  convert  the  principal  amount  of the  Note  into  shares  of the
Company's  common  stock  pursuant  to a  formula  based on the  greater  of the
aggregate  market value of the Company or its going  concern value as determined
by an investment banking firm or nationally  recognized  accounting firm, on the
conversion  date.  The number of shares of our  common  stock that may be issued
under the Note may not exceed 20% of the then issued and  outstanding  shares of
the Company's  common stock on the conversion date. At our option and subject to
certain  provisions  of the Note,  we may  prepay  the Note at any time  without
premium or penalty.

                                       49

ITEM 14.          PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.
                  ---------------------------------------

         AUDIT FEES

         Aggregate  audit fees billed and  expected to be billed by BDO Seidman,
LLP ("BDO") for its audit of the Company's consolidated financial statements for
the years ended  December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004,  and for its review of
the  consolidated  financial  statements  included  in the  Company's  Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q filed  with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  for
fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, were $201,000 and $194,500, respectively.

         AUDIT-RELATED FEES

         Aggregate  fees billed and  expected to be billed by BDO for  assurance
and related  services  performed by BDO and reasonably  related to the audit and
review services  performed by BDO described above under the caption "Audit Fees"
totaled $26,400 and $23,400 for fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively.

         TAX FEES

         In addition to the fees described above,  aggregate fees of $30,800 and
$27,390  respectively,  were billed by BDO during the years ended  December  31,
2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively,  for income tax compliance and related
tax services.

         ALL OTHER FEES

         None.

         All  audit-related  services,  tax  services  and other  services  were
pre-approved  by the  Audit  Committee  of the  Board of  Directors.  The  Audit
Committee's  pre-approval  policies  and  procedures  are to  pre-approve,  on a
case-by-case  basis,  all audit,  audit-related,  tax and other  services  to be
performed by our independent auditors.

50

PART IV

ITEM 15.          EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
                  FORM 8-K.

         (a)      Documents filed as part of this Report

         1.       Financial Statements filed as part of this Report:

                  The following consolidated financial statements of the Company
                  are included in Item 8:

                  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets -- As of  December  31, 2005 and
                  2004.

                  Consolidated  Statements of Operations -- Years ended December
                  31, 2005, 2004, and 2003.

                  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity and
                  Comprehensive  Income (Loss) -- Years ended December 31, 2005,
                  2004, and 2003.

                  Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows -- Years ended December
                  31, 2005, 2004, and 2003.

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

         2.       Financial Statement Schedules filed as part of this Report:

                  The following  consolidated  financial  statement schedule and
                  the reports of independent  accountants  thereon are submitted
                  in response to Item 14(d) of this Annual Report.

                  Financial  Statement Schedule for the years ended December 31,
                  2005, 2004 and 2003.

                  Schedule II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

         (b)      Reports on Form 8-K

                  The Company furnished a Current Report on Form 8-K on November
                  9, 2005 with  respect to an event  reported  under Item 2.02 -
                  "Results of Operations and Financial Condition".

         (c)      Exhibits

            Exhibit      Description

         3.01     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated May
                  1, 1987,  as amended to date.  (Exhibit  3.01 to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December
                  31,  1999,  File  No.  1-5354,   is  incorporated   herein  by
                  reference.)

         3.02     By-laws of the Company,  as amended to date.  (Exhibit 3.02 to
                  the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended  December 31, 2001,  File No.  1-5354,  is  incorporated
                  herein by reference.)

         4.01     Rights  Agreement,  dated as of October 26, 1999,  between the
                  Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights
                  Agent.  (Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's  Current  Report on Form
                  8-K dated October 29, 1999,  File No. 1-5354,  is incorporated
                  herein by reference.)

         4.02     Convertible  Subordinated Promissory Note dated as of April 1,
                  2004 and Amended and  Restated as of June 30, 2004 between the
                  Company  and  Marshall  Tulin  (Exhibit  1  to  the  Company's
                  Schedule 13D/A dated as of September 9, 2004, File No. 1-5354,
                  is incorporated herein by reference.)

51

4.03     Loan and Security  Agreement dated as of June 30, 2004 between
                  the Company and Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. (Exhibit 4.1 to the
                  Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of July 7, 2004,
                  File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)

         10.01    Employment  Agreement  dated June 20, 1991 between the Company
                  and Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.01 to the Company's  Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,
                  1991, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.01.1  Amendment   dated  as  of  September  1,  1993  to  Employment
                  Agreement  between the Company and  Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit
                  10.01.1 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  1993,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.01.2  Amendment  effective  as of  October  30,  1995 to  Employment
                  Agreement  between the Company and  Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit
                  10.01.2  to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  1996,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.01.3  Amendment  effective  as of  January  1,  1992  to  Employment
                  Agreement  between the Company and  Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit
                  10.01.3  to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  1998,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.01.4  Amendment  dated  as of May 4,  1998 to  Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit 10.0 to the
                  Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
                  ended June 30, 1998, File No. 1-5354,  is incorporated  herein
                  by reference.)+

         10.01.5  Amendment  dated as of May 30,  2001 to  Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit 10.1 to the
                  Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
                  ended  September 30, 2001,  File No. 1-5354,  is  incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.01.6  Amendment  dated as of June 20, 2001 to  Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit 10.2 to the
                  Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
                  ended  September 30, 2001,  File No. 1-5354,  is  incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.02    Employment  Agreement  dated as of January 1, 1990 between the
                  Company and John Tulin. (Exhibit 10-03 to the Company's Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,
                  1989, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.02.1  Amendments  dated as of  September  1, 1993 and  September  2,
                  1993,  respectively,  between  the  Company  and  John  Tulin.
                  (Exhibit  10.02.1 to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993,  File No. 1-5354,
                  is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.02.2  Amendment dated as of January 1, 1997 to Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company  and John Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.02.2 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1996, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.02.3  Amendment dated as of January 1, 1992 to Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company  and John Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.02.3 to the
                  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1998, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.02.4  Amendment   dated  as  of  December  10,  1998  to  Employment
                  Agreement between the Company and John Tulin. (Exhibit 10.02.4
                  to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10K for the fiscal year
                  ended  December 31, 1998,  File No.  1-5354,  is  incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.02.5  Amendment   dated  as  of  December  27,  2001  to  Employment
                  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  John  Tulin.   (Exhibit
                  10.02.05 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  2001,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

                                       52

10.02.6  Amendment dated as of January 1, 2005 to Employment  Agreement
                  between  the Company  and John  Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.01 to the
                  Company's  Current  Report  on Form 8-K  dated as of March 28,
                  2005 File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.03    Employment  Agreement  dated as of March 1, 1989  between  the
                  Company  and  James  Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.05 to the  Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December
                  31,  1988,  File  No.  1-5354,   is  incorporated   herein  by
                  reference.)+

         10.03.1  Amendment dated as of January 4, 1990 to Employment  Agreement
                  between  the Company and James  Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.05 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1989, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.03.2  Amendment   dated  as  of  September  1,  1993  to  Employment
                  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  James  Tulin.  (Exhibit
                  10.03.2 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  1993,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.03.3  Amendment dated as of January 1, 1997 to Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and James Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.03.3 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1996, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.03.4  Amendment dated as of January 1, 1992 to Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and James Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.03.4 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1998, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.03.5  Amendment   dated  as  of  December  10,  1998  to  Employment
                  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  James  Tulin.  (Exhibit
                  10.03.5 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  1998,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.03.6  Amendment dated as of January 1, 2003 to Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and James Tulin.  (Exhibit 10.03.06 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 2001, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.03.7  Amendment dated as of January 1, 2005 to Employment  Agreement
                  between  the Company and James  Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.02 to the
                  Company's  Current  Report  on Form 8-K  dated as of March 28,
                  2005 File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.04    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December
                  18, 2003 between the Company and Eric P. Luft  (Exhibit  10.04
                  to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal
                  year ended December 31, 2004, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.04.1  Letter Agreement dated as of May 26, 2004 amending the Amended
                  and  Restated  Employment  Agreement  dated as of December 18,
                  2003  between the Company and Eric P. Luft  (Exhibit  10.01 to
                  the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  fiscal
                  quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-5354,  is incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.04.2  Letter  Agreement  dated as of September 23, 2004 amending the
                  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December
                  18, 2003 between the Company and Eric P. Luft  (Exhibit  10.01
                  to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                  quarter  ended  September  30,  2004,  File  No.  1-5354,   is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.04.3  Letter  Agreement  dated  as of  March 9,  2005  amending  the
                  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December
                  18, 2003 between the Company and Eric P. Luft  (Exhibit  10.01
                  to the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of March
                  11,  2005,  File  No.  1-5354,   is  incorporated   herein  by
                  reference.)+

         10.04.4  Letter  Agreement  dated as of February 28, 2006  amending the
                  Amended and Restated

                                       53

Employment Agreement dated as of December 18, 2003 between the
                  Company  and  Eric P.  Luft  (Exhibit  1.01  to the  Company's
                  Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of March 8, 2006, File No.
                  1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.05    Form  of  Termination  Agreement  effective  January  1,  1999
                  between the Company and each of the Company's  officers listed
                  on Schedule A thereto.  (Exhibit 10.05 to the Company's Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,
                  1998, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.06    Deferred  Compensation Plan of the Company dated as of January
                  1, 1987. (Exhibit 10.12 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended  December  31,  1988,  File No.
                  1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.07    Agreement  dated as of July 14,  1981  between the Company and
                  Marshall  Tulin,  John Tulin and  Raymond  Vise as  investment
                  managers of the Company's pension plans.  (Exhibit 10.12(b) to
                  the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended  December 31, 1981,  File No.  1-5354,  is  incorporated
                  herein by reference.)

         10.08    The New Swank,  Inc.  Retirement Plan Trust Agreement dated as
                  of January 1, 1994 among the Company and Marshall Tulin,  John
                  Tulin and Raymond Vise, as co-trustees.  (Exhibit 10.12 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1994, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)

         10.08.01 The New Swank,  Inc.  Retirement Plan as amended and restated,
                  effective  January 1, 1999  (Exhibit 1 to Amendment  No. 12 to
                  the  Schedule  13D of the New  Swank,  Inc.  Retirement  Plan,
                  Marshall  Tulin,  John  Tulin,  and  Raymond  Vise,  filed  on
                  December 14, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference.)

         10.09    Plan of  Recapitalization of the Company dated as of September
                  28, 1987, as amended (Exhibit 2.01 to Post-Effective Amendment
                  No.1  to  the  Company's  S-4  Registration  Statement,   File
                  No.33-19501, filed on February 9, 1988, is incorporated herein
                  by reference.)

         10.10    First  Amendment  effective  January  1, 1997 to Key  Employee
                  Deferred  Compensation Plan. (Exhibit 10.14.1 to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December
                  31,  1996,  File  No.  1-5354,   is  incorporated   herein  by
                  reference.)+

         10.11    1994 Non-Employee  Director Stock Option Plan.  (Exhibit 10.15
                  to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal
                  year ended December 31, 1994, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.12    Letter Agreement  effective August 1, 1996 between the Company
                  and John J.  Macht.  (Exhibit  10.18 to the  Company's  Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,
                  1996, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.13    Letter Agreement  effective August 1, 1998 between the Company
                  and The Macht Group.  (Exhibit  10.14 to the Company's  Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,
                  1998, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.14    Letter Agreement effective May 1, 2000 between the Company and
                  The Macht  Group.  (Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly
                  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  quarter  ended  June 30,
                  2000, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.15    Swank,  Inc. 1998 Equity Incentive  Compensation Plan (Exhibit
                  10.0 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
                  fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1998,  File No. 1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.16    Agreement  dated as of July 10,  2001  between the Company and
                  K&M Associates L.P. (Exhibit

                                       54

10.22 to the Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
                  fiscal  quarter  ended  June 30,  2001,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.17    Agreement dated as of October 17, 2003 between the Company and
                  Jerold R. Kassner.+*

         14.01    Code  of  Ethics  for  Finance  Professionals  of the  Company
                  (Exhibit 14.01 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-Q for
                  the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003,  File No. 1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)

         21.01    Subsidiaries  of the Company.  (Exhibit 21.01 to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December
                  31,  1998,  File  No.  1-5354,   is  incorporated   herein  by
                  reference.)+

         31.01    Rule  13a-14(a)  Certification  of John Tulin,  President  and
                  Chief Executive Officer of the Company.*

         31.02    Rule 13a-14(a)  Certification of Jerold R. Kassner,  Principal
                  Financial Officer of the Company.*

         32.01    Certification  pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted
                  pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.*

- -------------------------------------------------
*Filed herewith.

+Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

55

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  Registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 31, 2006             SWANK, INC.
                                 (Registrant)

By:
                                     -------------------------------------------
                                      Jerold R. Kassner, Senior Vice President,
                                      Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and
                                      Secretary

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                                      Title                                                          Date
- ---------                                      -----                                                          ----

- -----------------------------------
John A. Tulin                                  President and Director (principal executive               March 31, 2006
                                               officer)

- -----------------------------------
Jerold R. Kassner                              Senior Vice President Chief Financial                     March 31, 2006
                                               Officer, Treasurer and Secretary (principal
                                               financial and accounting officer)

- -----------------------------------
John J. Macht                                  Director                                                  March 31, 2006

- -----------------------------------
Eric P. Luft                                   Senior Vice President and Director                        March 31, 2006

- -----------------------------------
James E. Tulin                                 Senior Vice President and Director                        March 31, 2006

- -----------------------------------
Raymond Vise                                   Director                                                  March 31, 2006

56

SWANK, INC.
                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(A) Bad debts charged off as uncollectable,  net of reserves.
(B) Cash discounts taken by customers.
(C) Customer returns.
(D) Credits issued to customers for cooperative advertising.
(E) Credits issued to customers  for  in-store  markdowns.
(F) Net  reduction in sales and cost of sales.
(G) Recorded in selling and administrative.
(H) Recorded in net sales.
(I) Includes  accounts  receivable  recoveries  in excess of  charge-offs.
(J) Recorded in restructuring expenses
(K) Payments made to beneficiaries

57

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    EXHIBITS
                                       TO
                            ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10K
                               FOR THE FISCAL YEAR
                             ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005

                                   SWANK, INC.

58

EXHIBIT INDEX

            Exhibit      Description

         3.01     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated May
                  1, 1987,  as amended to date.  (Exhibit  3.01 to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December
                  31,  1999,  File  No.  1-5354,   is  incorporated   herein  by
                  reference.)

         3.02     By-laws of the Company,  as amended to date.  (Exhibit 3.02 to
                  the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended  December 31, 2001,  File No.  1-5354,  is  incorporated
                  herein by reference.)

         4.01     Rights  Agreement,  dated as of October 26, 1999,  between the
                  Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights
                  Agent.  (Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's  Current  Report on Form
                  8-K dated October 29, 1999,  File No. 1-5354,  is incorporated
                  herein by reference.)

         4.02     Convertible  Subordinated Promissory Note dated as of April 1,
                  2004 and Amended and  Restated as of June 30, 2004 between the
                  Company  and  Marshall  Tulin  (Exhibit  1  to  the  Company's
                  Schedule 13D/A dated as of September 9, 2004, File No. 1-5354,
                  is incorporated herein by reference.)

         4.03     Loan and Security  Agreement dated as of June 30, 2004 between
                  the Company and Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. (Exhibit 4.1 to the
                  Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of July 7, 2004,
                  File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)

         10.01    Employment  Agreement  dated June 20, 1991 between the Company
                  and Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.01 to the Company's  Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,
                  1991, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.01.1  Amendment   dated  as  of  September  1,  1993  to  Employment
                  Agreement  between the Company and  Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit
                  10.01.1 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  1993,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.01.2  Amendment  effective  as of  October  30,  1995 to  Employment
                  Agreement  between the Company and  Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit
                  10.01.2  to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  1996,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.01.3  Amendment  effective  as of  January  1,  1992  to  Employment
                  Agreement  between the Company and  Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit
                  10.01.3  to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  1998,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.01.4  Amendment  dated  as of May 4,  1998 to  Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit 10.0 to the
                  Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
                  ended June 30, 1998, File No. 1-5354,  is incorporated  herein
                  by reference.)+

         10.01.5  Amendment  dated as of May 30,  2001 to  Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit 10.1 to the
                  Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
                  ended  September 30, 2001,  File No. 1-5354,  is  incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.01.6  Amendment  dated as of June 20, 2001 to  Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and Marshall  Tulin.  (Exhibit 10.2 to the
                  Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
                  ended  September 30, 2001,  File No. 1-5354,  is  incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.02    Employment  Agreement  dated as of January 1, 1990 between the
                  Company and John Tulin. (Exhibit 10-03 to the Company's Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended

59

December 31, 1989, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.02.1  Amendments  dated as of  September  1, 1993 and  September  2,
                  1993,  respectively,  between  the  Company  and  John  Tulin.
                  (Exhibit  10.02.1 to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993,  File No. 1-5354,
                  is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.02.2  Amendment dated as of January 1, 1997 to Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company  and John Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.02.2 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1996, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.02.3  Amendment dated as of January 1, 1992 to Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company  and John Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.02.3 to the
                  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1998, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.02.4  Amendment   dated  as  of  December  10,  1998  to  Employment
                  Agreement between the Company and John Tulin. (Exhibit 10.02.4
                  to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10K for the fiscal year
                  ended  December 31, 1998,  File No.  1-5354,  is  incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.02.5  Amendment   dated  as  of  December  27,  2001  to  Employment
                  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  John  Tulin.   (Exhibit
                  10.02.05 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  2001,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.02.6  Amendment dated as of January 1, 2005 to Employment  Agreement
                  between  the Company  and John  Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.01 to the
                  Company's  Current  Report  on Form 8-K  dated as of March 28,
                  2005 File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.03    Employment  Agreement  dated as of March 1, 1989  between  the
                  Company  and  James  Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.05 to the  Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December
                  31,  1988,  File  No.  1-5354,   is  incorporated   herein  by
                  reference.)+

         10.03.1  Amendment dated as of January 4, 1990 to Employment  Agreement
                  between  the Company and James  Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.05 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1989, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.03.2  Amendment   dated  as  of  September  1,  1993  to  Employment
                  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  James  Tulin.  (Exhibit
                  10.03.2 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  1993,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.03.3  Amendment dated as of January 1, 1997 to Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and James Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.03.3 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1996, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.03.4  Amendment dated as of January 1, 1992 to Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and James Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.03.4 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1998, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

         10.03.5  Amendment   dated  as  of  December  10,  1998  to  Employment
                  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  James  Tulin.  (Exhibit
                  10.03.5 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended  December  31,  1998,  File No.  1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.03.6  Amendment dated as of January 1, 2003 to Employment  Agreement
                  between the Company and James Tulin.  (Exhibit 10.03.06 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 2001, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)+

60

10.03.7  Amendment dated as of January 1, 2005 to Employment  Agreement
                  between  the Company and James  Tulin.  (Exhibit  10.02 to the
                  Company's  Current  Report  on Form 8-K  dated as of March 28,
                  2005 File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.04    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December
                  18, 2003 between the Company and Eric P. Luft  (Exhibit  10.04
                  to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal
                  year ended December 31, 2004, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.04.1  Letter Agreement dated as of May 26, 2004 amending the Amended
                  and  Restated  Employment  Agreement  dated as of December 18,
                  2003  between the Company and Eric P. Luft  (Exhibit  10.01 to
                  the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  fiscal
                  quarter ended June 30, 2004, File No. 1-5354,  is incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.04.2  Letter  Agreement  dated as of September 23, 2004 amending the
                  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December
                  18, 2003 between the Company and Eric P. Luft  (Exhibit  10.01
                  to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                  quarter  ended  September  30,  2004,  File  No.  1-5354,   is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.04.3  Letter  Agreement  dated  as of  March 9,  2005  amending  the
                  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December
                  18, 2003 between the Company and Eric P. Luft  (Exhibit  10.01
                  to the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of March
                  11,  2005,  File  No.  1-5354,   is  incorporated   herein  by
                  reference.)+

         10.04.4  Letter  Agreement  dated as of February 28, 2006  amending the
                  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December
                  18, 2003 between the Company and Eric P. Luft (Exhibit 1.01 to
                  the Company's  Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of March 8,
                  2006, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.05    Form  of  Termination  Agreement  effective  January  1,  1999
                  between the Company and each of the Company's  officers listed
                  on Schedule A thereto.  (Exhibit 10.05 to the Company's Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,
                  1998, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.06    Deferred  Compensation Plan of the Company dated as of January
                  1, 1987. (Exhibit 10.12 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended  December  31,  1988,  File No.
                  1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.07    Agreement  dated as of July 14,  1981  between the Company and
                  Marshall  Tulin,  John Tulin and  Raymond  Vise as  investment
                  managers of the Company's pension plans.  (Exhibit 10.12(b) to
                  the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended  December 31, 1981,  File No.  1-5354,  is  incorporated
                  herein by reference.)

         10.08    The New Swank,  Inc.  Retirement Plan Trust Agreement dated as
                  of January 1, 1994 among the Company and Marshall Tulin,  John
                  Tulin and Raymond Vise, as co-trustees.  (Exhibit 10.12 to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1994, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated  herein by
                  reference.)

         10.08.01 The New Swank,  Inc.  Retirement Plan as amended and restated,
                  effective  January 1, 1999  (Exhibit 1 to Amendment  No. 12 to
                  the  Schedule  13D of the New  Swank,  Inc.  Retirement  Plan,
                  Marshall  Tulin,  John  Tulin,  and  Raymond  Vise,  filed  on
                  December 14, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference.)

61

10.09    Plan of  Recapitalization of the Company dated as of September
                  28, 1987, as amended (Exhibit 2.01 to Post-Effective Amendment
                  No.1  to  the  Company's  S-4  Registration  Statement,   File
                  No.33-19501, filed on February 9, 1988, is incorporated herein
                  by reference.)

         10.10    First  Amendment  effective  January  1, 1997 to Key  Employee
                  Deferred  Compensation Plan. (Exhibit 10.14.1 to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December
                  31,  1996,  File  No.  1-5354,   is  incorporated   herein  by
                  reference.)+

         10.11    1994 Non-Employee  Director Stock Option Plan.  (Exhibit 10.15
                  to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal
                  year ended December 31, 1994, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated
                  herein by reference.)+

         10.12    Letter Agreement  effective August 1, 1996 between the Company
                  and John J.  Macht.  (Exhibit  10.18 to the  Company's  Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,
                  1996, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.13    Letter Agreement  effective August 1, 1998 between the Company
                  and The Macht Group.  (Exhibit  10.14 to the Company's  Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended  December  31,
                  1998, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.14    Letter Agreement effective May 1, 2000 between the Company and
                  The Macht  Group.  (Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's  Quarterly
                  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  quarter  ended  June 30,
                  2000, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.15    Swank,  Inc. 1998 Equity Incentive  Compensation Plan (Exhibit
                  10.0 to the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
                  fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1998,  File No. 1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.16    Agreement  dated as of July 10,  2001  between the Company and
                  K&M Associates L.P. (Exhibit 10.22 to the Company's  Quarterly
                  Report  on Form 10-Q for the  fiscal  quarter  ended  June 30,
                  2001, File No. 1-5354, is incorporated herein by reference.)+

         10.17    Agreement dated as of October 17, 2003 between the Company and
                  Jerold R. Kassner.+*

         14.01    Code  of  Ethics  for  Finance  Professionals  of the  Company
                  (Exhibit 14.01 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-Q for
                  the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003,  File No. 1-5354,  is
                  incorporated herein by reference.)

         21.01    Subsidiaries  of the Company.  (Exhibit 21.01 to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  December
                  31,  1998,  File  No.  1-5354,   is  incorporated   herein  by
                  reference.)+

         31.01    Rule  13a-14(a)  Certification  of John Tulin,  President  and
                  Chief Executive Officer of the Company.*

         31.02    Rule 13a-14(a)  Certification of Jerold R. Kassner,  Principal
                  Financial Officer of the Company.*

         32.01    Certification  pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted
                  pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.*

- -------------------------------------------------
*Filed herewith.
+Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

62

<EX-10>
 3
 ex10_17-f10k123105.txt
 EX-10.17; AGMT BET THE CO. &  JEROLD R. KASSNER

AGREEMENT

         AGREEMENT  dated  October  17, 2003  between  SWANK,  INC.,  a Delaware
corporation  with an address at 90 Park  Avenue,  New York,  New York 10016 (the
"Corporation"),  and JEROLD R. KASSNER,  an individual whose principal residence
address is 14 Cheryl Drive, Sharon, Massachusetts 02067 (the "Employee").

                              W I T N E S S E T H:

         WHEREAS,  the Employee has been a valuable senior executive employee of
the Corporation for a number of years; and

         WHEREAS,  the  Corporation  and the  Employee  desire  to set  forth in
writing certain  agreements  between them in the event of the termination of the
employment of the Employee by the Corporation under certain circumstances.

         NOW,  THEREFORE,  in consideration  of the mutual  covenants  contained
herein  and  for  other  good  and  valuable  consideration,   the  receipt  and
sufficiency of which is hereby  acknowledged,  the  Corporation and the Employee
hereby agree as follows:

         1. Employee at Will.

         The Corporation and the Employee hereby  acknowledge and agree that the
Employee is an employee at will,  and that the  Corporation  may  terminate  the
employment  of  the  Employee  at any  time  for  any  reason  or for no  reason
whatsoever.

         2. Severance Payments Upon Termination other than for Cause.

         (a) In the event that the Corporation shall terminate the employment of
the  Employee  for any reason  other than (i) for Cause (as such term is defined
below), (ii) the Disability (as such term is defined below) of the Employee,  or
(iii) upon the death of the Employee (a  "Termination  Event"),  the Corporation
will  continue to pay to the  Employee  his base salary at the per annum rate in
effect on the Termination  Date (as such term is defined below),  for the period
commencing on the Termination  Date and ending on the day immediately  preceding
the first yearly  anniversary of the Termination Date (the "Severance  Period"),
less, in each case the Required  Deductions  and any  applicable  New Employment
Compensation (as such terms are defined below) (the "Severance Payments"). In no
event, however, will the Employee be entitled to receive any rights, amounts, or
benefits under this Agreement unless he executes and delivers to the Corporation
a  release  and  covenant  not  to sue  prepared  by,  and  acceptable  to,  the
Corporation  or if  the  Employee  is in  violation  of any  of  the  terms  and
provisions of this  Agreement.  The Severance  Payments will be payable by check
(or, if requested by the Employee, by direct deposit into the Employee's account
in  substantially  the same  manner as  presently  deposited  and  subject to no
material  additional  conditions to the Corporation than presently exist) and in
substantially  equal  installments in accordance with the Corporation's  regular
pay intervals for its  executive  officers,  or in such other manner as shall be
mutually agreeable to the Corporation and the Employee.

(b) The Corporation will withhold,  and the payments  otherwise payable
to the Employee hereunder shall be reduced by, all applicable federal, state and
local taxes, FICA, unemployment  compensation taxes and other taxes, assessments
and  withholdings  required  by  applicable  law to be withheld  (the  "Required
Deductions").

         (c) Upon a Termination  Event,  if the Employee shall elect to continue
to receive  group medical  insurance  for him and/or his family  pursuant to the
federal  "COBRA" law,  presently 29 U.S.C.  sec. 1161 et. seq., the  Corporation
will reimburse the Employee or, at the  Corporation's  option,  the  Corporation
will pay directly  all premium  costs  associated  therewith  for the  Severance
Period,  to the extent such premium  costs exceed the premium costs the Employee
would have had to pay had he been  employed  during such period for coverage for
him and his family under the Corporation's  group medical insurance in effect on
the Termination Date. In addition,  upon a Termination  Event, the Employee will
be fully vested under the Corporation's  executive life insurance program as the
same may be in effect from time to time;  provided,  that  nothing  herein shall
require the  Corporation to continue such program in effect or shall prohibit or
restrict the Corporation from amending,  modifying or supplementing such program
at any time and from time to time.

         (d) The  Employee  will not be required  to mitigate  the amount of any
Severance  Payments  to which he might be  entitled  hereunder  during the first
three months  after a  Termination  Event (the  "Initial  Three-Month  Period").
However,  the Employee will be required to mitigate all other amounts payable to
the Employee under this Agreement as follows:  if after a Termination  Event the
Employee  shall  secure  employment  (as an  employee,  consultant,  independent
contractor,  or otherwise) of any kind and receive  compensation  of any kind in
respect  thereof  (the "New  Employment  Compensation"),  any amounts  which the
Employee  might be entitled to receive  under this  Agreement  after the Initial
Three-Month  Period  will  be  reduced  by  the  amount  of the  New  Employment
Compensation.  The Employee  shall,  within five (5) business  days,  notify the
Corporation  in writing of (i) the  existence of any such  employment,  (ii) the
identity  of the  employer,  and (iii) the  amounts  he may  receive,  with such
substantiation as the Corporation shall from time to time reasonably request.

         (e) The term  "Cause"  shall  mean (i) a  willful  refusal  or  willful
failure by the  Employee to perform any duties  consistent  with the position of
Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation assigned to the Employee which is not
cured  within 14 days after  notice of such breach  shall have been given to the
Employee by the  Corporation (or within 30 days after such notice if such breach
shall not be curable within 14 days after such notice and the Employee shall, at
all times, diligently pursue the cure of such breach within such 30-day period),
(ii)  the  commission  by the  Employee  of an act  involving  moral  turpitude,
dishonesty, theft, misappropriation of assets, or unethical business conduct, in
each case which materially  impairs or harms the reputation,  or is otherwise to
the  material  detriment,  of the  Corporation,  or any of its  subsidiaries  or
affiliated  corporations,  or which could reasonably be expected to do so, (iii)
the possession or use of illegal drugs or prohibited substances,  (iv) excessive
drinking  which  impairs  the  Employee's  ability  to  perform  his  duties and
responsibilities  hereunder,  or (v) the  conviction  of the Employee of, or the
pleading of nolo  contendere  by the

                                      -2-

Employee to, any felony, or a misdemeanor  involving any of the acts referred to
in clause (a)(ii) above.

         (f) The term  "Disability"  shall  mean the  failure  of the  Employee,
because of physical or mental illness or incapacity, to be able to substantially
perform the duties and services  required of him pursuant to his  employment  by
the Corporation for a period of 120 consecutive days or for a period of 270 days
in any 365-day period.

         (g) The term "Termination Date" shall mean the last day the
Employee is employed by the Corporation.

         4. Certain Covenants of the Employee.

         (a) The Employee  acknowledges  that by his  employment he has been and
will continue to be in a confidential relationship with the Corporation and will
have access to confidential  information  and trade secrets of the  Corporation,
its subsidiaries and affiliated  corporations  (collectively,  the "Confidential
Information").  Confidential  Information  includes,  but  is  not  limited  to,
customer and client lists,  financial  information,  price lists,  marketing and
sales  strategies and  procedures,  computer  programs,  databases and software,
supplier,  vendor and  service  information,  personnel  information,  operating
procedures and  techniques,  business plans and systems,  and all other records,
files,  and  information in respect of the  Corporation.  During the term of his
employment by the Corporation  and  thereafter,  the Employee shall maintain the
strictest  confidentiality of all Confidential  Information and shall not use or
permit the use of, or disclose,  discuss,  communicate or transmit or permit the
disclosure,  discussion,  communication  or  transmission  of, any  Confidential
Information.  This paragraph shall not apply to (i)  information  that, by means
other than the Employee's direct or indirect disclosure, becomes generally known
to the public,  or (ii)  information the disclosure of which is compelled by law
(including  judicial or administrative  proceedings and legal process).  In that
connection,  in the event that the  Employee is  requested  or required (by oral
question,  interrogatories,  requests for  information or documents,  subpoenas,
civil investigative  demand or other legal process) to disclose any Confidential
Information,  the Employee agrees to provide the Corporation with prompt written
notice  of such  request  or  requirement  so that the  Corporation  may seek an
appropriate  protective  order or relief therefrom or may waive the requirements
or this  paragraph  4(a).  If,  failing the entry of a  protective  order or the
receipt  of  a  waiver   hereunder,   the  Employee  is  compelled  to  disclose
Confidential  Information  under pain of liability for contempt or other censure
or penalty,  the Employee  may disclose  such  Confidential  Information  to the
extent so required.

         (b) In the event of a breach or  threatened  breach by the  Employee of
any of the provisions of paragraph 4(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to an
injunction  to be issued by any court or tribunal of competent  jurisdiction  to
restrain the Employee from committing or continuing any such  violation.  In any
proceeding for an injunction,  the Employee agrees that his ability to answer in
damages  shall not be a bar or be  interposed  as a defense to the granting of a
temporary or permanent  injunction  against him. The Employee  acknowledges that
the  Corporation  will not have an  adequate  remedy  at law in the event of any
breach by him as  aforesaid  and that the  Corporation  may  suffer  irreparable
damage and injury in the

                                      -3-

event of such a breach by him.  Nothing  contained  herein shall be construed as
prohibiting the Corporation from pursuing any other remedy or remedies available
to the Corporation in respect of such breach or threatened breach.

         5. Representations.

         (a) The Employee represents and warrants that he has full authority and
legal  capacity to execute and deliver this Agreement and perform his duties and
obligations hereunder,  that he has duly executed this Agreement, and that he is
not under any  contractual,  legal or other restraint or prohibition  that would
restrict,  prohibit or prevent the Employee from  performing  this Agreement and
his duties and obligations hereunder.

         (b) The  Employee  acknowledges  that he is  free to seek  advice  from
independent  counsel with respect to this  Agreement.  The Employee has obtained
such  advice  and is not  relying  on any  representation  or  advice  from  the
Corporation   or  any  of  its   officers,   directors,   attorneys,   or  other
representatives regarding this Agreement, its contents or effect.

         (c) The Corporation  represents and warrants that it has full corporate
power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and perform its duties
and obligations hereunder, that it has duly executed this Agreement, and that it
is not under any contractual, legal or other restraint or prohibition that would
restrict,  prohibit or prevent  Employer from  performing this Agreement and his
duties and obligations hereunder.

         6. Assignability.

         This Agreement may not be assigned by the Employee and all of its terms
and  conditions  shall be binding  upon and inure to the benefit of the Employee
and his heirs,  executors,  administrators,  legal  representatives and assigns.
This  Agreement  may be assigned,  in whole or in part, by the  Corporation  and
shall  be  binding  upon  and  inure  to the  benefit  of the  Corporation,  its
successors and assigns.  Successors of the  Corporation  shall include,  without
limitation, any corporation or other entity acquiring directly or indirectly all
or a  substantial  part of the  assets of the  Corporation  whether  by  merger,
consolidation, purchase, lease or otherwise, and such successor shall thereafter
be deemed the "Corporation" for purposes hereof.

         7. Notices.

         Except as otherwise expressly provided, any notice,  request, demand or
other communication permitted or required to be given under this Agreement shall
be in writing,  shall be sent by one of the  following  means to the Employee at
his address set forth on the first page of this Agreement and to the Corporation
at its  address  set  forth  on the  first  page of this  Agreement,  Attention:
President,  (or to such other address as shall be designated hereunder by notice
to the other  parties  and  persons  receiving  copies,  effective  upon  actual
receipt) and shall be deemed  conclusively to have been given:  (a) on the first
business day  following the day timely  deposited  for  overnight  delivery with
Federal Express (or other

                                      -4-

equivalent  national  overnight  courier service) or United States Express Mail,
with the cost of delivery  prepaid or for the account of the sender;  (b) on the
fifth business day following the day duly sent by certified or registered United
States mail, postage prepaid and return receipt requested; or (c) when otherwise
actually  received by the  addressee on a business day (or on the next  business
day if received after the close of normal business hours or on any  non-business
day). A copy of each notice, request, demand or other communication given to the
Corporation by the Employee shall be given to William D. Freedman, Esq., Jenkens
& Gilchrist Parker Chapin, LLP, The Chrysler Building, 405 Lexington Avenue, New
York, New York 10174.

         8. No Waiver by Action, Cumulative Rights, Etc.

         Any  waiver  or  consent  from  either  party  respecting  any  term or
provision of this Agreement shall be effective only in the specific instance and
for the specific purpose for which given and shall not be deemed,  regardless of
frequency given, to be a further or continuing waiver or consent. The failure or
delay of  either  party at any time or times to  require  performance  of, or to
exercise  any of its  powers,  rights or remedies  with  respect to, any term or
provision of this  Agreement  in no manner shall affect that party's  right at a
later time to enforce any such term or provision.

         9. Interpretation, Headings.

         The parties acknowledge and agree that the terms and provisions of this
Agreement  have been  negotiated,  shall be  construed  fairly as to all parties
hereto, and shall not be construed in favor of or against any party. The section
headings  contained in this Agreement are for reference  purposes only and shall
not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

         10. Severability.

         The invalidity or  unenforceability  of any provision of this Agreement
shall not affect, impair or invalidate any other provision of this Agreement.

         11.  Counterparts;   Facsimile  Signatures;  New  York  Governing  Law;
Amendments, Entire Agreement.

         This Agreement may be executed in two counterpart copies, each of which
may be  executed  by one of the parties  hereto,  but both of which,  when taken
together,  shall constitute a single agreement  binding upon the parties hereto.
Any signature delivered by a party by facsimile  transmission shall be deemed to
be an original  signature  hereto.  This  Agreement  shall be  governed  by, and
construed  and enforced in accordance  with,  the laws of the State of New York,
without  regard to principles of conflicts of laws (other than Section 5-1401 of
the New York General Obligations Law). Each and every modification and amendment
of this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto,  and any
waiver of, or consent  to any  departure  from,  any term or  provision  of this
Agreement  shall be in writing  and signed by the party  granting  the waiver or
consent.  This  Agreement  contains

                                      -5-

the entire  agreement of the parties and supersedes  all prior  representations,
agreements  and  understandings,  oral or  otherwise,  between the parties  with
respect to the matters contained herein.

         IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the Corporation and the Employee have signed this
Agreement on the date set forth on the first page of this Agreement.

                                        SWANK, INC.

By: /s/ John Tulin
                                            --------------
                                        Print Name:  John Tulin
                                        Print Title: President

                                        /s/ Jerold R. Kassner
                                        ---------------------
                                           Jerold R. Kassner

</EX-10>

<EX-31>
 4
 ex31_01-f10k123105.txt
 EX-31.01; CERTIFICATION OF JOHN TULIN
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 31.01

                                  CERTIFICATION

I, John Tulin, certify that:

 1.    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Swank, Inc.;

 2.    Based on my knowledge,  this report does not contain any untrue statement
       of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
       statements  made,  in  light  of  the  circumstances   under  which  such
       statements  were made, not misleading  with respect to the period covered
       by this report;

 3.    Based on my knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and other  financial
       information  included  in this  report,  fairly  present in all  material
       respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
       the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

 4.    The registrant's  other  certifying  officer(s) and I are responsible for
       establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure  controls and  procedures  (as
       defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant
       and have:

 (a)   Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,   or  caused  such
       disclosure  controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
       to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including
       its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
       entities,  particularly  during the period in which this  report is being
       prepared;

 (b)   Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls and
       procedures  and  presented  in this  report  our  conclusions  about  the
       effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
       the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

 (c)   Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's  internal control
       over  financial  reporting  that occurred  during the  registrant's  most
       recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case
       of an annual  report)  that has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably
       likely to  materially  affect,  the  registrant's  internal  control over
       financial reporting; and

 5.    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed,  based
       on  our  most  recent  evaluation  of  internal  control  over  financial
       reporting,  to the  registrant's  auditors and the audit committee of the
       registrant's  board of directors (or persons  performing  the  equivalent
       functions):

 (a)   All  significant  deficiencies  and material  weaknesses in the design or
       operation  of  internal  control  over  financial   reporting  which  are
       reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
       process, summarize and report financial information; and

 (b)   Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that  involves  management or other
       employees  who  have a  significant  role  in the  registrant's  internal
       control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006

/s/ John Tulin
- --------------
John Tulin, President and Principal
Executive Officer

</EX-31>

<EX-31>
 5
 ex31_02-f10k123105.txt
 EX-31.02; CERTIFICATION OF JEROLD R. KASSNER
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 31.02

                                  CERTIFICATION

I, Jerold R. Kassner, certify that:

 1.    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Swank, Inc.;

 2.    Based on my knowledge,  this report does not contain any untrue statement
       of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
       statements  made,  in  light  of  the  circumstances   under  which  such
       statements  were made, not misleading  with respect to the period covered
       by this report;

 3.    Based on my knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and other  financial
       information  included  in this  report,  fairly  present in all  material
       respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
       the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

 4.    The registrant's  other  certifying  officer(s) and I are responsible for
       establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure  controls and  procedures  (as
       defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant
       and have:

 (a)   Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,   or  caused  such
       disclosure  controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
       to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including
       its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
       entities,  particularly  during the period in which this  report is being
       prepared;

 (b)   Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls and
       procedures  and  presented  in this  report  our  conclusions  about  the
       effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
       the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

 (c)   Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's  internal control
       over  financial  reporting  that occurred  during the  registrant's  most
       recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case
       of an annual  report)  that has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably
       likely to  materially  affect,  the  registrant's  internal  control over
       financial reporting; and

 5.    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed,  based
       on  our  most  recent  evaluation  of  internal  control  over  financial
       reporting,  to the  registrant's  auditors and the audit committee of the
       registrant's  board of directors (or persons  performing  the  equivalent
       functions):

 (a)   All  significant  deficiencies  and material  weaknesses in the design or
       operation  of  internal  control  over  financial   reporting  which  are
       reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
       process, summarize and report financial information; and

 (b)   Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that  involves  management or other
       employees  who  have a  significant  role  in the  registrant's  internal
       control over financial reporting.

Date: March 31, 2006

/s/ Jerold R. Kassner
- ---------------------
Jerold R. Kassner, Principal Financial Officer

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 6
 ex32_01-f10k123105.txt
 EX-32.01; CERT. OF MR. TULIN & MR. KASSNER
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 32.01

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection  with the Annual  Report on Form 10-K of Swank,  Inc. (the
"Company")  for the fiscal  year ended  December  31, 2005 (the  "Report"),  the
undersigned  each hereby  certifies that: (1) the Report fully complies with the
requirements  of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended; and (2) the information  contained in the Report fairly presents, in
all material respects,  the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

 Dated:  March 31, 2006                /s/ John Tulin
                                       -------------------------
                                       John Tulin, President
                                       (Chief Executive Officer)

 Dated:  March 31, 2006                /s/ Jerold R. Kassner
                                       ---------------------
                                       Jerold R. Kassner, Senior Vice President
                                       and Treasurer
                                       (Chief Financial Officer)

         A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has
been provided to Swank,  Inc. and will be retained by Swank,  Inc. and furnished
to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32>

