<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_894508_0000948520-06-000046_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>395196</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>257444</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>790</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>40</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>4</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000948520-06-000046.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331123715
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000948520-06-000046
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COMMUNITY BANKSHARES INC /SC/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000894508
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS [6022]
		IRS NUMBER:				570966962
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			SC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-12341
		FILM NUMBER:		06726816

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 2086
		CITY:			ORANGEBURG
		STATE:			SC
		ZIP:			29116-2086
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8035351060

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 2086
		CITY:			ORANGEBURG
		STATE:			SC
		ZIP:			29116-2086

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Vu+5GmlPn4eq7jkwWTMu/GYE46ELS9hpMegBP1oEYtL4oqJSg4nt83owrnolsS1C
 NkM06u6X7kEBA3VE+QO2Qg==

 0000948520-06-000046.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 cbi10k-06.txt

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005        Commission File No. 000-22054

                           COMMUNITY BANKSHARES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

South Carolina                                           57-0966962
(State or other jurisdiction of                               (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization)                              Identification No.)

                    102 Founders Court, Orangeburg, SC 29118
               (Address of principal executive offices, zip code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (803) 535-1060

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                    Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, No Par Value                      American Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the  registrant is a well-known  seasoned  issuer,  as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
[ ] Yes    [X] No

Indicate  by  check  mark if the  registrant  is not  required  to file  reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.
[ ] Yes    [X] No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) filed all reports  required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Exchange  Act of 1934 during the past 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports),  and (2) has been subject to such filing  requirements for the past 90
days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large  accelerated  filer, an
accelerated  filer,  or a  non-accelerated  file. See definition of "accelerated
filer and large  accelerated  filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange  Act:  (Check
one):

Large accelerated filer [ ]   Accelerated filer [ ]   Non-accelerated filer  [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
[ ] Yes    [X] No

The aggregate  market value of the voting and  non-voting  common equity held by
non-affiliates  as of the last  business day of the  registrant's  most recently
completed second fiscal quarter, June 30, 2005 was approximately $59,776,000.

As of March 17, 2006,  there were 4,425,648  shares of the  registrant's  common
stock, no par value, outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

                  Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement
             for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders - Part III

10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                           Part I                                         Page
                                                                                                       
Item 1          Description of Business                                                                    3
Item 1A         Risk Factors                                                                              12
Item 1B         Unresolved Staff Comments                                                                 16
Item 2          Properties                                                                                16
Item 3          Legal Proceedings                                                                         17
Item 4          Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                                       17

                                     Part II
Item 5          Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
                   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities                                                  17
Item 6          Selected Financial Data                                                                   19
Item 7          Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
                   Operations                                                                             20
Item 7A         Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk                                47
Item 8          Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                               51
                Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm                                   52
                Consolidated Balance Sheets, December 31, 2005 and 2004                                   53
                Consolidated Statements of Income,
                   Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003                                           54
                Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity,
                   Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003                                           55
                Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
                   Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003                                           56
                Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                57
                Quarterly Data for 2005 and 2004                                                          90
Item 9          Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants
                   on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                                                 91
Item 9A         Controls and Procedures                                                                   91
Item 9B         Other Information                                                                         91

                                    Part III
Item 10         Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant                                        91
Item 11         Executive Compensation                                                                    *
Item 12         Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
                   Related Stockholder Matters                                                            92
Item 13         Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                                            *
Item 14         Principal Accountant Fees and Services                                                    *

                                     Part IV
Item 15         Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules                                                94

* Incorporated by reference to Registrant's  Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders

2

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

         Statements  included in this report which are not  historical in nature
are intended to be, and are hereby  identified as  `forward-looking  statements'
for  purposes  of the safe  harbor  provided  by Section  21E of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Forward-looking statements include statements
concerning plans, objectives,  goals,  strategies,  future events or performance
and underlying  assumptions and other statements which are other than statements
of historical facts. Such forward-looking statements may be identified,  without
limitation, by the use the of the words "anticipates,"  "believes," "estimates,"
"expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts,"  "projects," and similar expressions.
The Corporation's expectations, beliefs, estimates and projections are expressed
in good faith and are believed by the  Corporation  to have a reasonable  basis,
including without limitation,  management's  examination of historical operating
trends,  data  contained in the  Corporation's  records and other data available
from  third  parties,   but  there  can  be  no  assurance   that   management's
expectations,  beliefs,  estimates or projections  will result or be achieved or
accomplished.  The Corporation cautions readers that forward-looking statements,
including without  limitation,  those relating to the  Corporation's  recent and
continuing expansion, its future business prospects,  revenues, working capital,
liquidity,  capital needs, interest costs, income, and adequacy of the allowance
for loan losses,  are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results  to  differ  materially  from  those  indicated  in the  forward-looking
statements,  due to several important factors herein  identified,  among others,
and other risks and factors  identified  from time to time in the  Corporation's
reports  filed with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission.  The  Corporation
undertakes  no  obligation  to  publicly  update or revise  any  forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

                        References to our Website Address

         References to our website address throughout this Annual Report on Form
10-K and in any documents  incorporated into this Form 10-K by reference are for
informational  purposes only, or to fulfill specific disclosure  requirements of
the  Securities and Exchange  Commission's  rules or the American Stock Exchange
listing standards. These references are not intended to, and do not, incorporate
the contents of our website by reference into this Form 10-K or the accompanying
materials.

                                     PART I

Item 1.  Description of Business

Form of organization

         Community Bankshares, Inc. (CBI or the Corporation) is a South Carolina
corporation  and a bank holding  company.  CBI  commenced  operations on July 1,
1993, upon effectiveness of the acquisition of the Orangeburg National Bank as a
wholly-owned  subsidiary.  In June  1996 CBI  acquired  all the  stock of Sumter
National  Bank,  which  is also a  wholly-owned  subsidiary.  In July  1998  CBI
acquired all the stock of Florence  National Bank,  which is also a wholly-owned
subsidiary.  In July 2002 CBI acquired by merger Ridgeway Bancshares,  Inc., the
parent company of the Bank of Ridgeway.

         Orangeburg  National  Bank (the  Orangeburg  bank) is a national  bank,
chartered  in 1987,  operating  from two offices  located in  Orangeburg,  South
Carolina.

3

Sumter National Bank (the Sumter bank) is a national bank, chartered in
1996, operating from two offices located in Sumter, South Carolina.

         Florence  National  Bank  (the  Florence  bank)  is  a  national  bank,
chartered  in 1998,  operating  from two  offices  located  in  Florence,  South
Carolina. A second office was opened in early 2005.

         Bank  of   Ridgeway   (the   Ridgeway   bank)   is  a  South   Carolina
state-chartered  bank, organized in 1898, operating from one office in Ridgeway,
one office in Winnsboro, and one office in Blythewood, South Carolina.

         In  November  2001,  CBI  acquired  all the  common  stock of  Resource
Mortgage Inc., a Columbia,  South Carolina based mortgage company.  The mortgage
company operates as a wholly-owned  subsidiary of the holding company and is now
named Community Resource Mortgage, Inc. (CRM).

Business of banking

         The Orangeburg, Sumter, Florence and Ridgeway banks (hereafter referred
to as the  Banks)  offer a full  array  of  commercial  bank  services.  Deposit
services include business and personal checking accounts, NOW accounts,  savings
accounts,  money market  accounts,  various term  certificates  of deposit,  IRA
accounts,  and other deposit services. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
insures  deposits  up to  applicable  limits.  Most of the Banks'  deposits  are
attracted from individuals and small businesses.

         The Banks  offer  secured  and  unsecured,  short-to-intermediate  term
loans,  with  floating  and fixed  interest  rates for  commercial  and consumer
purposes.  Consumer  loans  include  car loans,  home equity  improvement  loans
secured by first and second mortgages,  personal  expenditure  loans,  education
loans, and the like.  Commercial loans include short-term unsecured loans, short
and  intermediate  term real  estate  mortgage  loans,  loans  secured by listed
stocks,  loans secured by equipment,  inventory,  accounts  receivable,  and the
like.  The Banks do not and will not  discriminate  against  any  applicant  for
credit on the basis of race, color,  creed,  sex, age, marital status,  familial
status, handicap, or derivation of income from public assistance programs.

         Other services  offered by the Banks include safe deposit boxes,  night
depository  service,  VISA  and  Master  Card  brand  charge  cards  (through  a
correspondent),  tax deposits,  sale of U.S. Treasury bonds, notes and bills and
other U. S. government  securities  (through a correspondent),  twenty-four hour
automated teller service, and consumer and commercial Internet banking services.
Each of the  Banks  has ATMs  and  they  are all  part of the  Star  and  Cirrus
networks.

         CRM provides a wide variety of one to four family residential  mortgage
products in the  Columbia,  Sumter,  Anderson,  and  Charleston  South  Carolina
markets.

Competition

         The  market  for  financial  institutions  in our  various  markets  is
generally  highly  competitive.  Banks  generally  compete with other  financial
institutions  through the banking services and products offered,  the pricing of
services,  the level of service  provided,  the convenience and  availability of
services,  and the degree of expertise and personal  concern with which services
are offered.  The Banks encounter strong  competition from most of the financial
institutions in their market areas.

4

The market area for the Orangeburg  bank generally  encompasses an area
extending  nine miles  around the city of  Orangeburg.  The market  area for the
Sumter bank generally  encompasses the county of Sumter. The market area for the
Florence bank generally  encompasses  the city of Florence.  The market area for
the Ridgeway bank generally  encompasses  Fairfield County (for the Ridgeway and
Winnsboro offices) and the town of Blythewood in Richland County. In the conduct
of certain banking business, the Banks also compete with credit unions, consumer
finance  companies,  insurance  companies,  money market mutual funds, and other
financial  institutions,  some of which are not  subject  to the same  degree of
regulation and restrictions  imposed upon the Banks.  Many of these  competitors
have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Banks and offer
certain services,  such as international  banking and trust services,  which the
Banks do not provide.  The Banks believe,  however,  that their relatively small
size  permits  them to  offer  more  personalized  services  than  many of their
competitors.  The Banks attempt to compensate  for their lower lending limits by
participating larger loans with other institutions, generally with each other.

         Most of the other financial  institutions  in the  Orangeburg,  Sumter,
Florence and most of the  Ridgeway  service  areas are branch  offices of large,
regional banks that have offices located throughout South Carolina.  At June 30,
2005,  there were nine FDIC insured  financial  institutions  competing with the
Corporation  in the  city  of  Orangeburg,  eight  such  financial  institutions
competing  with  it in the  city  of  Sumter,  14  such  financial  institutions
competing  with it in the city of Florence,  three such  financial  institutions
competing  with  it in  Fairfield  County,  and 15 such  financial  institutions
competing  with it in the Richland  County market areas.  At June 30, 2005,  the
Orangeburg  bank had the second largest  deposit base in the city of Orangeburg;
the Sumter bank had the third  largest  deposit base in the city of Sumter;  the
Florence  bank had the sixth largest  deposit base in the city of Florence;  and
the  Ridgeway  bank  had the  largest  deposit  base  in  Fairfield  County  and
approximately half the deposits in the town of Blythewood.

         The  mortgage  company has offices in  Anderson,  Richland,  Sumter and
Charleston  Counties  of South  Carolina,  where it  competes  with  hundreds of
financial institutions and mortgage originators.

Dependence on Major Customers

         The Banks do not consider  themselves  dependent on any single customer
or small group of customers, either in the deposit or lending areas.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

         Bank  holding  companies  and banks  are  extensively  regulated  under
federal and state law. To the extent that the  following  information  describes
statutory  and  regulatory  provisions,  it is  qualified  in  its  entirety  by
reference to such  statutes and  regulations.  Any change in  applicable  law or
regulation may have a material effect on the business of CBI and the Banks.

         As discussed below under the caption "Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act", Congress
has adopted  extensive  changes in the laws  governing  the  financial  services
industry.  Among the changes  adopted  are  creation  of the  financial  holding
company,  a new type of bank holding  company  with powers that  greatly  exceed
those of standard holding companies, and creation of the financial subsidiary, a
subsidiary that can be used by national banks to engage in many, though not all,
of the same  activities  in which a financial  holding  company may engage.  The
legislation  also establishes the concept of functional  regulation  whereby the
various financial activities in which financial institutions engage are overseen
by the  regulator  with the relevant  regulatory  experience.  Accordingly,  the

5

following  discussion relates to the supervisory and regulatory  provisions that
apply to CBI and the Banks as they currently operate.

Regulation of Bank Holding Companies

General

         As a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act
("BHCA"),  CBI is subject to the  regulations  of the Board of  Governors of the
Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve"). Under the BHCA, CBI's activities
and those of its  subsidiaries  are limited to banking,  managing or controlling
banks,  furnishing  services to or performing  services for its  subsidiaries or
engaging in any other  activity  which the Federal  Reserve  determines to be so
closely  related to banking or managing or  controlling  banks as to be a proper
incident  thereto.  The BHCA  prohibits  CBI from  acquiring  direct or indirect
control of more than 5% of the outstanding  voting stock or substantially all of
the  assets of any bank or from  merging  or  consolidating  with  another  bank
holding  company  without prior approval of the Federal  Reserve.  The BHCA also
prohibits CBI from acquiring  control of any bank operating outside the State of
South Carolina unless such action is specifically  authorized by the statutes of
the state where the bank to be acquired is located.

         Additionally, the BHCA prohibits CBI from engaging in or from acquiring
ownership  or control  of more than 5% of the  outstanding  voting  stock of any
company engaged in a non-banking  business unless such business is determined by
the  Federal  Reserve  to be so closely  related  to  banking as to be  properly
incident thereto. The BHCA generally does not place territorial  restrictions on
the activities of such non-banking-related activities.

         As  discussed  below under  "Gramm-Leach-Bliley  Act",  a bank  holding
company that meets certain  requirements may now qualify as a financial  holding
company  and  thereby  significantly  increase  the  variety of  services it may
provide and the investments it may make.

         CBI is also subject to limited  regulation and supervision by the South
Carolina  State Board of Financial  Institutions  (the "State  Board").  A South
Carolina  bank  holding  company may be required to provide the State Board with
information with respect to the financial condition, operations,  management and
inter-company  relationships  of the holding company and its  subsidiaries.  The
State Board also may require  such other  information  as is  necessary  to keep
itself  informed  about  whether the  provisions  of South  Carolina law and the
regulations  and orders issued  thereunder by the State Board have been complied
with,  and the  State  Board  may  examine  any  bank  holding  company  and its
subsidiaries.  Furthermore,  pursuant to  applicable  law and  regulations,  the
Company must receive  approval of, or give notice to (as  applicable)  the State
Board  prior  to  engaging  in  the   acquisition   of  banking  or  non-banking
institutions or assets.

Obligations of Holding Company to its Subsidiary Banks

         A number of obligations  and  restrictions  are imposed on bank holding
companies  and their  depository  institution  subsidiaries  by Federal  law and
regulatory  policies that are designed to reduce  potential loss exposure to the
depositors of such  depository  institutions  and to the FDIC insurance funds in
the event the depository  institution  is in danger of becoming  insolvent or is
insolvent.  For example, under the policy of the Federal Reserve, a bank holding

6

company is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary
depository  institutions and to commit resources to support such institutions in
circumstances  where it might not do so absent such  policy.  In  addition,  the
"cross-guarantee"  provisions of the Federal  Deposit  Insurance Act, as amended
("FDIA"),  require  insured  depository  institutions  under  common  control to
reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered or reasonably anticipated by either the
Savings  Association  Insurance Fund ("SAIF") or the Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF")
of the  FDIC  as a  result  of the  default  of a  commonly  controlled  insured
depository  institution or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly
controlled  insured  depository  institution in danger of default.  The FDIC may
decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provisions if it determines that a waiver
is in the best  interest  of the SAIF or the BIF or both.  The FDIC's  claim for
damages  is  superior  to  claims  of  stockholders  of the  insured  depository
institution  or its holding  company but is subordinate to claims of depositors,
secured  creditors and holders of subordinated  debt (other than  affiliates) of
the commonly controlled insured depository institutions.

         The FDIA also provides that amounts  received from the  liquidation  or
other resolution of any insured  depository  institution by any receiver must be
distributed (after payment of secured claims) to pay the deposit  liabilities of
the  institution  prior to payment  of any other  general  or  unsecured  senior
liability,   subordinated  liability,  general  creditor  or  stockholder.  This
provision gives depositors a preference over general and subordinated  creditors
and  stockholders  in the event a receiver is appointed to distribute the assets
of the bank.

         Any capital  loans by a bank holding  company to any of its  subsidiary
banks are  subordinate  in right of payment  to  deposits  and to certain  other
indebtedness of such subsidiary  bank. In the event of a bank holding  company's
bankruptcy,  any  commitment  by the bank  holding  company  to a  federal  bank
regulatory  agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary  bank will be assumed
by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

         Under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of a national bank is
impaired by losses or otherwise,  the Office of the  Comptroller of the Currency
("OCC") is authorized to require  payment of the  deficiency by assessment  upon
the bank's  shareholders',  pro rata, and to the extent  necessary,  if any such
assessment is not paid by any shareholder after three months notice, to sell the
stock of such shareholder to make good the deficiency.

Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Bank Holding Companies and Banks

         The various federal bank regulators,  including the Federal Reserve and
the FDIC,  have adopted  risk-based  and leverage  capital  adequacy  guidelines
assessing bank holding company and bank capital adequacy. These standards define
what qualifies as capital and establish minimum capital standards in relation to
assets and  off-balance-sheet  exposures,  as  adjusted  for credit  risks.  The
capital  guidelines and CBI's capital  position are summarized in Note 19 to the
Financial Statements,  contained elsewhere in this report. All four of the Banks
are considered well capitalized.

Failure  to meet  capital  guidelines  could  subject  the Banks to a variety of
enforcement remedies, including the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC
and a prohibition on the taking of brokered deposits.

         The risk-based  capital standards of both the Federal Reserve Board and
the FDIC explicitly identify  concentrations of credit risk and the risk arising
from non-traditional  activities,  as well as an institution's ability to manage
these risks,  as  important  factors to be taken into account by the agencies in
assessing an institution's overall capital adequacy. The capital guidelines also
provide that an institution's exposure to a decline in the economic value of its
capital  due to changes in interest  rates be  considered  by the  agencies as a

7

factor in evaluating a bank's capital  adequacy.  The Federal Reserve Board also
has recently issued  additional  capital  guidelines for bank holding  companies
that engage in certain trading activities.

Payment of Dividends

         CBI is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Banks. Most of the
revenues  of CBI  result  from  dividends  paid to CBI by the  Banks.  There are
statutory and regulatory  requirements applicable to the payment of dividends by
subsidiary banks as well as by CBI to its shareholders.

         Each national banking  association is required by federal law to obtain
the prior  approval of the OCC for the payment of  dividends if the total of all
dividends  declared  by the  board of  directors  of such  bank in any year will
exceed the total of (i) such bank's net profits (as defined and  interpreted  by
regulation)  for that year plus (ii) the  retained  net  profits (as defined and
interpreted  by  regulation)  for the  preceding  two years,  less any  required
transfers to surplus. In addition,  national banks can pay dividends only to the
extent that retained net profits (including the portion  transferred to surplus)
exceed bad debts (as defined by regulation).  South Carolina banking regulations
also restrict the amount of dividends  that South  Carolina  state banks can pay
shareholders.  Any  dividends  by a South  Carolina  state bank that  exceed the
bank's total  year-to-date  earnings are subject to prior  approval of the South
Carolina  Commissioner of Banking and are generally  payable only from undivided
profits.  Payment of dividends by a state bank would also be  prohibited  if the
effect  would be to cause the Bank's  capital to fall below  applicable  minimum
capital requirements.

         The payment of  dividends  by CBI and the Banks may also be affected or
limited by other factors,  such as the requirements to maintain adequate capital
above regulatory  guidelines.  In addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable
regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to
engage in an unsafe or  unsound  practice  (which,  depending  on the  financial
condition of the Banks, could include the payment of dividends),  such authority
may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such
practice.  The OCC has indicated  that paying  dividends that deplete a national
bank's  capital  base to an  inadequate  level  would be an unsafe  and  unsound
banking practice.  The Federal Reserve,  the OCC and the FDIC have issued policy
statements,  which provide that bank holding  companies and insured banks should
generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings.

Certain Transactions by CBI with its Affiliates

         Federal  law  regulates  transactions  among  CBI and  its  affiliates,
including the amount of the Banks' loans to or investments in nonbank affiliates
and the amount of advances to third parties  collateralized  by securities of an
affiliate.  Further,  a bank holding  company and its  affiliates are prohibited
from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of
credit, lease or sale of property or furnishing of services.

FDIC Insurance Assessments

         Because the Banks'  deposits are insured by the Bank  Insurance Fund of
the FDIC  ("BIF"),  the Banks are subject to  semiannual  insurance  assessments
imposed by the FDIC. Since January 1, 1997, the assessments  imposed on all FDIC
deposits for deposit insurance have an effective rate ranging from 0 to 27 basis
points per $100 of insured  deposits,  depending  on the  institution's  capital
position and other supervisory  factors.  However,  legislation  enacted in 1996
requires that both Savings  Association  Insurance Fund ("SAIF") insured and BIF
insured  deposits pay a pro rata portion of the interest due on the  obligations
issued by the Financing  Corporation  ("FICO").  The FICO assessment is adjusted
quarterly to reflect  changes in the assessment  bases of the  respective  funds

8

based on quarterly  Call Report and Thrift  Financial  Report  submissions.  The
Federal Deposit  Insurance  Reform Act of 2005 will change the manner and amount
of insurance assessments beginning in 2006. The changes are not expected to have
a material effect on the Banks in 2006.

Regulation of the Banks

         Orangeburg  National Bank,  Sumter National Bank, and Florence National
Bank are subject to regulation and examination by OCC bank  examiners.  The Bank
of Ridgeway is subject to regulation  and  examination by the FDIC and the State
Board.  In  addition,  the Banks are subject to various  other state and federal
laws and regulations,  including state usury laws, laws relating to fiduciaries,
consumer  credit  laws and laws  relating  to branch  banking.  The Banks'  loan
operations are subject to certain  federal  consumer credit laws and regulations
promulgated   thereunder,   including,   but  not   limited   to:  the   federal
Truth-In-Lending   Act,  governing  disclosures  of  credit  terms  to  consumer
borrowers; the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, requiring financial institutions to
provide certain information  concerning their mortgage lending; the Equal Credit
Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, which prohibit  discrimination  on the
basis of certain  prohibited  factors  in  extending  credit;  and the Fair Debt
Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by
collection  agencies.  The  deposit  operations  of the Banks are subject to the
Truth in Savings Act, requiring certain  disclosures about rates paid on savings
accounts;  the Expedited Funds  Availability Act, which deals with disclosure of
the availability of funds deposited in accounts and the collection and return of
checks by banks;  the Right to Financial  Privacy Act,  which  imposes a duty to
maintain  certain   confidentiality   of  consumer  financial  records  and  the
Electronic  Funds Transfer Act and  regulations  promulgated  thereunder,  which
govern  automatic   deposits  to  and  withdrawals  from  deposit  accounts  and
customers'  rights and  liabilities  arising  from the use of  automated  teller
machines and other electronic  banking  services.  The Banks are also subject to
the Fair Credit Reporting Act, governing the use and provision of information to
credit  reporting  agencies;  the Bank Secrecy Act,  dealing  with,  among other
things, the reporting of certain currency transactions; and the USA PATRIOT Act,
dealing with,  among other things,  requiring  the  establishment  of anti-money
laundering  programs including  standards for verifying customer  information at
account opening.

         The Banks are subject to the requirements of the Community Reinvestment
Act (the "CRA").  The CRA imposes on financial  institutions  an affirmative and
ongoing  obligation  to meet  the  credit  needs  of  their  local  communities,
including low- and moderate-income  neighborhoods,  consistent with the safe and
sound  operation of those  institutions.  Each  financial  institution's  actual
performance  in  meeting  community  credit  needs is  evaluated  as part of the
examination process, and also is considered in evaluating mergers,  acquisitions
and applications to open a branch or facility.

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations

         Prompt  Corrective  Action.  The federal  banking  agencies  have broad
powers under  current  federal law to take prompt  corrective  action to resolve
problems of insured depository institutions.  The extent of these powers depends
upon whether the  institutions in question are "well  capitalized,"  "adequately
capitalized,"    "undercapitalized,"    "significantly    undercapitalized"   or
"critically undercapitalized."

         A bank that is "undercapitalized"  becomes subject to provisions of the
Federal  Deposit   Insurance  Act  ("FDIA")   restricting   payment  of  capital
distributions  and  management  fees;   requiring  the  bank's  primary  federal
regulator to monitor the condition of the bank; requiring submission by the bank
of a capital  restoration  plan;  prohibiting the acceptance of employee benefit
plan deposits;  restricting  the growth of the bank's assets and requiring prior
approval  of  certain  expansion  proposals.   A  bank  that  is  "significantly

9

undercapitalized" is also subject to restrictions on compensation paid to senior
management  of the bank,  and a bank that is  "critically  undercapitalized"  is
further subject to  restrictions on the activities of the bank and  restrictions
on payments of subordinated debt of the bank. The purpose of these provisions is
to require banks with less than adequate capital to act quickly to restore their
capital and to have the bank's primary  federal  regulator move promptly to take
over banks that are unwilling or unable to take such steps.

         Brokered Deposits.  Under current FDIC regulations,  "well capitalized"
banks may accept brokered deposits without restriction, "adequately capitalized"
banks may accept  brokered  deposits  with a waiver  from the FDIC  (subject  to
certain restrictions on interest rates that may be paid on such deposits), while
"undercapitalized"  banks may not  accept  brokered  deposits.  The  regulations
provide that the definitions of "well capitalized", "adequately capitalized" and
"undercapitalized"  are the same as the  definitions  adopted by the agencies to
implement  the prompt  corrective  action  provisions  described in the previous
paragraph.

Interstate Banking

         Under the Riegle-Neal  Interstate Banking and Branching  Efficiency Act
of 1994 ("Riegle-Neal"),  CBI and any other adequately  capitalized bank holding
company located in South Carolina can acquire a bank located in any other state,
and a bank holding  company located outside South Carolina can acquire any South
Carolina-based  bank, in either case subject to certain  deposit  percentage and
other  restrictions.  Riegle-Neal  also provides that, in any state that has not
previously  elected to prohibit  out-of-state  banks from  operating  interstate
branches within its territory,  adequately  capitalized and managed bank holding
companies can  consolidate  their  multistate bank operations into a single bank
subsidiary and branch interstate through  acquisitions.  De novo branching by an
out-of-state bank is permitted only if it is expressly  permitted by the laws of
the host state. The authority of a bank to establish and operate branches within
a state will continue to be subject to applicable  state branching  laws.  South
Carolina  law was amended,  effective  July 1, 1996,  to permit such  interstate
branching but not de novo branching by an out-of-state bank.

         The  Riegle-Neal  Act,  together  with  legislation  adopted  in  South
Carolina,  resulted in a number of South  Carolina banks being acquired by large
out-of-state  bank  holding  companies.  Size  gives the  larger  banks  certain
advantages  in competing for business from larger  customers.  These  advantages
include  higher  lending limits and the ability to offer services in other areas
of South  Carolina  and the  region.  As a result,  the  Banks do not  generally
attempt to compete  for the banking  relationships  of large  corporations,  but
concentrate   their  efforts  on  small  to   medium-sized   businesses  and  on
individuals.  CBI believes its Banks have  competed  effectively  in this market
segment by offering quality, personal service.

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act

         The  Gramm-Leach-Bliley  Act,  which  makes it easier for  affiliations
between banks,  securities firms and insurance  companies to take place,  became
effective  in March  2000.  The Act  removes  Depression-era  barriers  that had
separated  banks and  securities  firms,  and seeks to  protect  the  privacy of
consumers' financial information.

         Under  provisions of the  legislation  and  regulations  adopted by the
appropriate regulators, banks, securities firms and insurance companies are able
to structure new affiliations  through a holding company  structure or through a
financial subsidiary. The legislation creates a new type of bank holding company
called a "financial  holding  company" which has powers much more extensive than

10

those of standard holding companies.  These expanded powers include authority to
engage in "financial activities," which are activities that are (1) financial in
nature;  (2)  incidental  to  activities  that are  financial in nature;  or (3)
complementary  to a  financial  activity  and that do not  impose  a safety  and
soundness risk. Significantly,  the permitted financial activities for financial
holding  companies include authority to engage in merchant banking and insurance
activities,  including insurance portfolio investing. A bank holding company can
qualify as a financial holding company and expand the services it offers only if
all of its subsidiary depository institutions are well-managed, well-capitalized
and  have  received  a  rating  of   "satisfactory"   on  their  last  Community
Reinvestment Act examination.

         The  legislation  also  creates  another  new type of  entity  called a
"financial subsidiary." A financial subsidiary may be used by a national bank or
a group of national banks to engage in many of the same activities permitted for
a financial holding company, though several of these activities,  including real
estate development or investment,  insurance or annuity underwriting,  insurance
portfolio  investing and merchant  banking,  are reserved for financial  holding
companies.  A bank's  investment  in a financial  subsidiary  affects the way in
which the bank calculates its regulatory capital, and the assets and liabilities
of financial  subsidiaries  may not be consolidated  with those of the bank. The
bank must also be certain that its risk  management  procedures  are adequate to
protect it from  financial and  operational  risks created both by itself and by
any financial subsidiary.  Further, the bank must establish policies to maintain
the separate corporate  identities of the bank and its financial  subsidiary and
to prevent  each from  becoming  liable for the  obligations  of the other.  The
Florence bank and the Orangeburg  bank each have a financial  subsidiary for the
sale of securities and insurance products.

         The Act also  establishes  the  concept  of  "functional  supervision,"
meaning that  similar  activities  should be  regulated  by the same  regulator.
Accordingly,  the Act spells out the regulatory authority of the bank regulatory
agencies,  the Securities and Exchange Commission and state insurance regulators
so that each type of activity is  supervised by a regulator  with  corresponding
expertise.  The Federal  Reserve Board is intended to be an umbrella  supervisor
with the  authority  to  require a bank  holding  company or  financial  holding
company  or any  subsidiary  of  either  to  file  reports  as to its  financial
condition,  risk management  systems,  transactions with depository  institution
subsidiaries  and  affiliates,  and compliance  with any federal law that it has
authority to enforce.

         Although the Act reaffirms that states are the regulators for insurance
activities  of  all  persons,  including   federally-chartered  banks,  the  Act
prohibits  states from preventing  depository  institutions and their affiliates
from conducting insurance activities.

         The Act also  establishes  a minimum  federal  standard  of  privacy to
protect the confidentiality of a consumer's  personal financial  information and
gives the consumer the power to choose how personal financial information may be
used by financial institutions.

         The Act and the  regulations  adopted  pursuant  to the Act  create new
opportunities  for CBI to offer  expanded  services to  customers in the future,
though, except as noted above, CBI has not yet determined what the nature of the
expanded services might be or when CBI might find it feasible to offer them. The
Act has  increased  competition  from  larger  financial  institutions  that are
currently  more  capable  than CBI of taking  advantage  of the  opportunity  to
provide a broader range of services.  However, CBI continues to believe that its
commitment to providing  high quality,  personalized  service to customers  will
permit it to remain competitive in its market area.

11

Fiscal and Monetary Policy

         Banking is a business  which depends to a large extent on interest rate
differentials. In general, the difference between the interest paid by a bank on
its deposits and its other  borrowings,  and the interest  received by a bank on
its loans and  securities  holdings,  constitutes  the major portion of a bank's
earnings.  Thus,  the earnings and growth of CBI are subject to the influence of
economic  conditions  generally,  both  domestic  and  foreign,  and also to the
monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly
the Federal Reserve.  The Federal Reserve  regulates the supply of money through
various  means,  including  open-market  dealings  in United  States  government
securities,  the  discount  rate at which  banks  may  borrow  from the  Federal
Reserve,  and reserve  requirements  on  deposits.  The nature and timing of any
changes in such policies and their impact on CBI cannot be predicted.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

         The Sarbanes-Oxley  Act, which was enacted in 2002,  mandated extensive
reforms and requirements for public companies. The SEC has adopted extensive new
regulations  pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act.  The
Sarbanes-Oxley   Act  and  the  SEC's  new   regulations   have   increased  the
Corporation's  cost of doing  business,  particularly  its fees for internal and
external  audit services and legal  services,  and the law and  regulations  are
expected to continue to do so. However, the Corporation does not believe that it
will be affected by Sarbanes-Oxley  and the new SEC regulations in ways that are
materially  different or more  onerous  than those of other public  companies of
similar size and in similar businesses.

Legislative Proposals

         Legislation which could significantly affect the business of banking is
introduced in Congress from time to time.  CBI cannot  predict the future course
of such legislative proposals or their impact on CBI should they be adopted.

Employees

         At December 31, 2005 the Corporation  employed 194 full time equivalent
employees. Management believes that its employee relations are excellent.

Further Information

         Further information about the business of the Corporation and the Banks
is set forth in this Form  10-K  under  Item 7 -  "Management's  Discussion  and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

                          Risks Related to Our Industry

         We are  subject  to  governmental  regulation  which  could  change and
increase our cost of doing business or have an adverse effect on our business.

         We  operate  in  a  highly  regulated   industry  and  are  subject  to
examination,  supervision  and  comprehensive  regulation by various federal and
state  agencies.  Most of this  regulation is designed to protect our depositors

12

and other customers, not our shareholders.  Our compliance with the requirements
of these agencies is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our
activities,   including,   payment  of  dividends,   mergers  and  acquisitions,
investments,  loans and interest rates charged, and locations of offices. We are
also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal authorities and
our failure to meet those guidelines  could result in limitations  being imposed
on our  activities  or,  in an  extreme  case,  in our  banks  being  placed  in
receivership.  We  have  also  recently  been  subjected  to the  extensive  and
expensive  requirements imposed on public companies by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and related regulations.

         The laws and  regulations  applicable  to the  banking  industry  could
change at any time,  and we cannot  predict  the impact of these  changes on our
business or profitability.  Because  government  regulation  greatly affects the
business  and  financial  results  of all  commercial  banks  and  bank  holding
companies,  our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate
profitably.

         We are  susceptible  to changes in monetary  policy and other  economic
factors which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.

         Changes in governmental,  economic and monetary policies may affect the
ability of our bank to attract  deposits  and make loans.  The rates of interest
payable  on  deposits  and  chargeable  on loans are  affected  by  governmental
regulation  and fiscal policy as well as by national,  state and local  economic
conditions.  All of these  matters  are  outside of our  control  and affect our
ability to operate profitably.

                          Risks Related to Our Business

         We depend on the services of a number of key  personnel,  and a loss of
any of those  personnel  could  disrupt  our  operations  and  result in reduced
revenues.

         The success of our  business  depends to a great extent on our customer
relationships. Our growth and development to date have depended in large part on
the efforts of our senior  management  team. A number of these  senior  officers
have  primary  contact  with  our  customers  and  are  extremely  important  in
maintaining  personalized  relationships with our customer base, a key aspect of
our business  strategy,  and in increasing our market  presence.  The unexpected
loss of  services  of one or more of these key  employees  could have a material
adverse effect on our operations and possibly  result in reduced  revenues if we
were unable to find suitable replacements promptly.

         We may be unable to successfully manage our sustained growth.

         Our future  profitability  will depend in part on our ability to manage
growth  successfully.  Our ability to manage growth  successfully will depend on
our  ability to  maintain  cost  controls  and asset  quality  while  attracting
additional loans and deposits, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as
economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we grow too quickly and are not
able to control  costs and  maintain  asset  quality,  growth  could  materially
adversely affect our financial performance.

         Our continued pace of growth or regulatory  requirements may require us
to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available
when it is needed or be available on favorable terms.

         We  anticipate  that our current  capital  resources  will  satisfy our
capital  requirements for the foreseeable future.  Nevertheless,  we may need to
raise  additional  capital to support  additional  growth or to meet  regulatory
requirements.  Our ability to raise additional  capital, if needed, will depend,

13

among other things, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are
outside our control,  and on our  financial  condition  and  performance.  If we
cannot raise additional  capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to
further expand our operations  through internal growth and acquisitions could be
limited.

         If our loan customers do not pay us as they have  contracted to, we may
experience losses.

         Our principal revenue producing  business is making loans. If the loans
are not repaid, we will suffer losses.  Even though we maintain an allowance for
loan losses, the amount of the allowance may not be adequate to cover the losses
we  experience.  We attempt to  mitigate  this risk by a thorough  review of the
creditworthiness of loan customers.  Nevertheless, there is risk that our credit
evaluations  will  prove  to be  inaccurate  due  to  changed  circumstances  or
otherwise.

         We face strong  competition from larger,  more established  competitors
which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.

         We encounter strong competition from financial  institutions  operating
in our market areas. In the conduct of our business, we also compete with credit
unions,  insurance  companies,  money market  mutual  funds and other  financial
institutions,  some of which are not subject to the same degree of regulation as
we are.  Many of these  competitors  have  substantially  greater  resources and
lending abilities than we have and offer services,  such as investment  banking,
trust and international banking services that we do not provide. We believe that
we have  competed,  and will  continue to be able to compete,  effectively  with
these institutions because of our experienced bankers and personalized  service,
as well as through loan  participations  and other  strategies  and  techniques.
However,  we cannot promise that we are correct in our belief.  If we are wrong,
our ability to operate profitably may be negatively affected.

         Technological  changes  affect  our  business,  and we may  have  fewer
resources than many of our competitors to invest in technological improvements.

         The   financial   services   industry   continues   to  undergo   rapid
technological  changes  with  frequent  introductions  of new  technology-driven
products and services.  In addition to enabling financial  institutions to serve
clients better, the effective use of technology may increase  efficiency and may
enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in
part,  upon our ability to use technology to provide  products and services that
provide  convenience to customers and to create  additional  efficiencies in our
operations.  We may need to make significant  additional capital  investments in
technology in the future,  and we may not be able to  effectively  implement new
technology-driven   products  and  services.   Many  of  our  competitors   have
substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements.

         Our  profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in interest
rates and economic conditions.

         Our  profitability  depends upon our net interest income,  which is the
difference between interest earned on our interest-bearing assets, such as loans
and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities,
such as deposits  and  borrowings.  Our net  interest  income will be  adversely
affected  if market  interest  rates  change  such that the  interest  we pay on
deposits and borrowings  increases  faster than the interest earned on loans and
investments.  Interest rates, and  consequently  our results of operations,  are
affected by general  economic  conditions  (domestic and foreign) and fiscal and
monetary policies.  Monetary and fiscal policies may materially affect the level
and direction of interest  rates.  Beginning in June 2004 through  January 2006,

14

the Federal  Reserve has raised  rates  fourteen  times for a total  increase of
3.50%.  Increases in interest  rates  generally  decrease  the market  values of
interest-bearing  investments and loans held and therefore may adversely  affect
our liquidity and earnings.  Increased  interest rates also generally affect the
volume of  mortgage  loan  originations,  the  resale  value of  mortgage  loans
originated  for resale,  and the ability of borrowers to perform under  existing
loans of all types.

                        Risks Related to Our Common Stock

         Our common  stock has a limited  trading  market,  which may limit your
ability to sell your stock.

         Our common stock is traded on the  American  Stock  Exchange  under the
symbol "SCB." Since January 1, 2005,  the average weekly trading volume has been
approximately  6,200 shares.  Accordingly,  a  shareholder  who wishes to sell a
large  number of shares may  experience a delay in selling the shares or have to
sell them at a lower price in order to sell them promptly.

         We may issue additional securities, which could affect the market price
of our common stock and dilute your ownership.

         We may issue  additional  securities to raise  additional  capital,  to
support growth, or to make acquisitions. Sales of a substantial number of shares
of our common  stock,  or the  perception  by the market  that those sales could
occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could make
it more difficult for us to raise capital through the sale of common stock or to
use our common stock in future acquisitions.

         There is no  guarantee  we will  continue to pay cash  dividends in the
future at the same or any level.

         Declaration  and payment of dividends are within the  discretion of our
board of directors.  Our banks are currently our only source of funds with which
to pay cash dividends. Our banks' declaration and payment of future dividends to
us are  within  the  discretion  of the  banks'  boards  of  directors,  and are
dependent  upon  their  earnings,  financial  condition,  their  need to  retain
earnings  for use in the business and any other  pertinent  factors.  The banks'
payment of dividends is also subject to various regulatory  requirements and the
ability of the banks' regulators to forbid or limit their payment of dividends.

         Provisions in our articles of incorporation  and South Carolina law may
discourage  or prevent  takeover  attempts,  and these  provisions  may have the
effect of reducing the market price for our stock.

         Our articles of incorporation  include several provisions that may have
the  effect  of  discouraging  or  preventing  hostile  takeover  attempts,  and
therefore  of  making  the  removal  of  incumbent  management  difficult.   The
provisions  include  staggered terms for our board of directors and requirements
of supermajority  votes to approve certain business  transactions.  In addition,
South Carolina law contains  several  provisions that may make it more difficult
for a third party to acquire  control of us without the approval of our board of
directors,  and may make it more  difficult  or  expensive  for a third party to
acquire a majority of our  outstanding  common  stock.  To the extent that these
provisions are effective in discouraging or preventing  takeover attempts,  they
may tend to reduce the market price for our stock.

15

Our  common  stock  is  not  insured,  so you  could  lose  your  total
investment.

         Our common stock is not a deposit, savings account or obligation of our
bank and is not  insured by the Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation  or any
other  government  agency.  Should our  business  fail you could lose your total
investment.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments

         Not applicable  because the Registrant is not an accelerated filer or a
large accelerated filer.

Item 2.  Description of Property

         The Corporation owns  approximately  three acres of land located at 102
Founders  Court  in the  northeast  area of the City of  Orangeburg  on which it
constructed  a  two  story,  16,000  square  foot  corporate   headquarters  and
operations  center  building.  The new building was completed  during the fourth
quarter of 2005, and the Corporation began fully operating from this facility in
mid-January 2006.

         The  Corporation  leases office space for its Chief Credit  Officer and
Director of Human Resources at 508 Hampton Street, Suite 203, Columbia, SC under
the terms of a lease that expires in November,  2007. At the end of that period,
the lease will automatically renew on a month-to-month basis.

         The  Orangeburg  bank owns land  located at 1820  Columbia  Road NE, in
Orangeburg, South Carolina, where the Orangeburg bank maintains its main office,
which is a one-story building of approximately 7,000 square feet. The Orangeburg
bank also owns a 6,500  square foot  branch  office at 791  Broughton  Street in
Orangeburg, as well as a building, which was previously a branch of the bank, at
the corner of Broughton and Glover  Streets in Orangeburg.  The Orangeburg  bank
previously  rented the  building  at the corner of Glover and  Broughton  to the
Corporation  for  office  space.  Those  offices  have now been  moved  into the
Corporation's  new headquarters and operations  building and the Orangeburg bank
now intends to demolish the old  building.  In June 1999,  the Bank moved into a
branch  facility  located  adjacent to the old  building.  This branch office is
approximately 6,500 square feet.

         The Sumter bank owns the property at 683 Bultman  Drive in Sumter where
its main office is housed in a one-story 6,500 square foot building.  The Sumter
bank  opened a branch  bank at 1135 West  Liberty  Street in Sumter in  February
2002. The branch is a one-story building of approximately 3,600 square feet. The
land, approximately one acre, is leased under a non-cancellable  operating lease
for an initial term of twenty years,  with four five-year  renewal options.  The
Sumter bank is responsible for property taxes and improvements.

         The  Florence  bank leases  approximately  1.7 acres of land located at
2009 Hoffmeyer Road in Florence,  South Carolina for its main office.  The lease
is for an initial term of ten years and provides for two ten year renewals and a
final two year renewal.  The Florence bank is responsible for property taxes and
improvements.  The Corporation built a 7,500 square foot, one-story building for
the  Florence   bank  on  the  leased  site.   The  Florence  bank  also  leases
approximately  one quarter acre of land and a 2,000 square foot  building at 812
Second  Loop  Road,  Florence,  SC for its  branch  office.  The lease is for an
initial  term of five years and  contains  both early  termination  and  renewal
options. The Florence bank also purchased a 1.1 acre lot on the 600 block of the
Pamplico  Highway in  Florence  for  approximately  $600,000.  This  property is
intended for future development.

16

The Ridgeway bank's main office is located in a two story building on a
quarter  acre site owned by the Bank at 100 S. Palmer  Street in  Ridgeway.  The
bank also owns a 1,590 square foot one story branch  office on a .9 acre site at
115 McNulty Street in  Blythewood,  SC, and a 1,900 square foot one story branch
office on a one acre site at 610 West Moultrie Street in Winnsboro, SC. The bank
owned  approximately  1.5 acres of land on Longtown  Road in Northeast  Richland
County,  SC, where it previously had plans to build a new  full-service  banking
office.  Those  plans are no longer in effect  and the  property  was sold to an
unrelated  third-party  in late December 2005 for  approximately  $355,000.  The
Ridgeway Bank has obtained regulatory approval to move its Blythewood, SC office
from its present  location to the Village,  located off of Blythewood  Road near
Interstate  77. The Bank intends to lease  approximately  7,500 square feet of a
two story building  which is currently  under  construction.  Completion of this
project and relocation of this office is expected to be accomplished  during the
second quarter of 2006.

         CRM operates from leased offices located at 508 Hampton  Street,  Suite
201, Columbia, SC, 10253 Two Notch Road, Columbia, SC, 1135 West Liberty Street,
Sumter,  SC, 2406 North Main Street,  Anderson,  SC, and 1156 Bowman Road, Suite
103, Mount Pleasant, SC. The Hampton Street, Columbia office is leased under the
terms  of a five  year  lease.  At the  end  of  that  period,  the  lease  will
automatically  renew on a  month-to-month  basis.  The other  offices are rented
under month-to-month rental agreements.

         Information  about future  lease  payments is included in Note 7 to the
consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this report.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

         The Company,  the Banks and the Mortgage  Company are from time to time
subject  to legal  proceedings  in the  ordinary  course of their  business.  No
proceedings  were  pending at December 31, 2005,  that  management  believes are
likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company or its subsidiaries.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         No matters were submitted for a vote of the security holders during the
fourth quarter of 2005.

                                     PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's  Common Equity,  Related Stockholder Matters
        and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

         The  Corporation's  shares of Common  Stock are traded on the  American
Stock Exchange (the AMEX) under the ticker symbol SCB.

         The following table summarizes the range of high and low prices for the
Corporation's  Common Stock as reported on the American  Stock Exchange for each
quarterly period over the last two years.

17

Quarter Ended         High         Low
                       -------------         ----         ---
                        March 31, 2004     $ 20.92     $ 17.70
                         June 30, 2004     $ 19.00     $ 16.80
                    September 30, 2004     $ 18.90     $ 17.30
                     December 31, 2004     $ 19.50     $ 17.37
                        March 31, 2005     $ 18.59     $ 16.45
                         June 30, 2005     $ 18.50     $ 15.91
                    September 30, 2005     $ 17.95     $ 16.45
                     December 31, 2005     $ 18.24     $ 16.60

During 2005, the  Corporation  had stock sales volume of 324,300 shares
compared with 385,500 shares the prior year.

         There were 2,003  holders of record of the  Corporation's  Common Stock
(no par value) as of December 31, 2005 compared with 2,183 the prior year.

         During  2005,  the  Corporation  authorized  and  paid  quarterly  cash
dividends  totaling  $.40 per  share.  The  total  cost of these  dividends  was
$1,761,000  or  174.2%  of after  tax  profits.  During  2004,  the  Corporation
authorized and paid quarterly  cash dividends  totaling 40 cents per share.  The
total cost of these dividends was $1,744,000 or 54.3% of after tax profits.  The
dividend  policy of the Corporation is subject to the discretion of the Board of
Directors and depends upon a number of factors,  including  earnings,  financial
condition,  cash needs and general  business  conditions,  as well as applicable
regulatory considerations. Subject to ongoing review of these circumstances, the
Board expects to maintain a reasonable, safe and sound dividend payment policy.

         The current  source of dividends to be paid by the  Corporation  is the
dividends  received  from its banking  subsidiaries.  Accordingly,  the laws and
regulations   that  govern  the  payment  of  dividends   by  national   banking
associations and state chartered banks may restrict the Corporation's ability to
pay  dividends.  National  banks may pay dividends  only out of present and past
earnings  and state  banks may only pay out of current  earnings  without  prior
regulatory approval. Both are subject to numerous limitations designed to ensure
that the Banks have adequate  capital to operate safely and soundly (See Item 1.
Description of Business - Supervision and Regulation - Payment of Dividends). As
of December 31, 2005, the Banks could have declared  additional  dividends of up
to $5,747,000 without the approval of regulatory  authorities.  As of January 1,
2006, the dividend restrictions would have allowed the Banks to pay no more than
approximately $2,411,000 in dividends without the prior approval of regulators.

         The information  required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is set forth
in Item 12 of this Form 10-K.

         The  Corporation did not purchase any shares of its common stock during
the fourth quarter of 2005. The Corporation  sold 775 shares of its common stock
in transactions that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 during
the year ended December 31, 2005. Details of this sale were included in the Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005.

18

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

         The following is a summary of the consolidated  financial  position and
results of operations of the  Corporation  for the years ended December 31, 2001
through 2005.

(1)   July, 2002 - Ridgeway Bancshares, Inc. acquired.
(2)   November, 2001 - Community Resource Mortgage, Inc. acquired.

19

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operation

INTRODUCTION

         The  discussion  and data  presented  below  analyze  major factors and
trends regarding the financial  condition and results of operations of Community
Bankshares  Inc. and its  subsidiaries  for the three year period ended December
31,  2005.  This  information   should  be  reviewed  in  conjunction  with  the
consolidated  financial statements and related notes contained elsewhere in this
report.

Business of the Corporation

         Community  Bankshares  Inc. is a bank  holding  company.  CBI owns four
banking  subsidiaries:  Orangeburg National Bank, Sumter National Bank, Florence
National  Bank,  and the Bank of Ridgeway,  and a mortgage  company  subsidiary,
Community Resource Mortgage,  Inc. CBI provides executive  management,  item and
data  processing  and  other  technical  services  for  its  subsidiaries.   The
consolidated  financial report for 2005 represents the operations of the holding
company,  its banks and the mortgage company on a consolidated basis.  Condensed
parent-only  financial statements are presented in the notes to the consolidated
financial statements.

         Orangeburg   National  Bank  is  a  national  banking  association  and
commenced  operations in November  1987. It operates two offices in  Orangeburg,
South  Carolina.  Sumter  National Bank is a national  banking  association  and
commenced  operations  in June 1996.  It operates  two offices in Sumter,  South
Carolina. Florence National Bank is a national banking association and commenced
operations  in July 1998. It operates two offices in Florence,  South  Carolina.
The Bank of Ridgeway is a state  chartered bank and operates from three offices,
located in Ridgeway,  Winnsboro and Blythewood,  SC. The banks provide a variety
of commercial  banking services in their respective  communities.  Their primary
customer markets are consumers and small to medium sized businesses.

         Community Resource Mortgage,  Inc., a South Carolina corporation,  is a
mortgage  brokerage  company  that  provides  a  variety  of one to four  family
residential  mortgage  products,  primarily for resale in the secondary  market,
from offices in Columbia, Sumter, Charleston and Anderson, South Carolina.

EARNINGS PERFORMANCE

2005 compared with 2004

         For the year ended  December 31,  2005,  the  Corporation  recorded net
income of  $1,011,000,  a decrease of $2,198,000,  or 68.5%,  from net income of
$3,209,000  for 2004.  Net income per share for 2005 was $.23 compared with $.74
for 2004.  Diluted net income per share was $.22 for 2005 compared with $.72 for
2004.  Return on average  assets was .19% for 2005  compared with .67% for 2004.
Return on average  shareholders'  equity was 1.94% for 2005  compared with 6.41%
for 2004.

         The  change  in net  income  for 2005  was  affected  primarily  by the
following factors:

o    the 2005 loan loss  provision  expense  increased by  $4,535,000  over 2004
     primarily  due to  credit  quality  issues  centered  mainly  in  one  bank
     subsidiary;

20

o    mortgage loan brokerage  income increased by $571,000 due to an increase in
     residential mortgage loan production that resulted, in part, from modifying
     the mortgage subsidiary's loan origination and funding activities, and from
     a resurgence in demand for residential mortgage loans;

o    noninterest  expenses increased by $2,352,000,  primarily due to the hiring
     of  additional  corporate  executive  and  administrative   officers,   and
     increased commission-based compensation paid by the mortgage subsidiary;

o    increased  average  holdings  of loans and  investments  and higher  yields
     associated  with those  instruments  resulted in a  $6,732,000  increase in
     interest and dividend income;

o    interest expense increased by $3,774,000 principally due to higher interest
     rates paid on time deposits; and

o    income tax expense was reduced by $1,006,000  due to lower  taxable  income
     resulting from the net effect of the factors enumerated above.

         Net  interest  income for 2005  increased by  $2,958,000  over the 2004
amount due to increases of $6,134,000  and $426,000 in interest  income on loans
and federal funds sold,  respectively,  and increases of $3,438,000 and $343,000
in interest  expenses related to  interest-bearing  deposits and long-term debt,
respectively.  Interest  expense for  long-term  debt  increased  in 2005 due to
increases in the average amount of such debt outstanding and increased  variable
interest rates paid for  $10,000,000 of junior  subordinated  debt issued by the
Corporation  during  2004.  The  proceeds  of this debt were used  primarily  to
increase the  capitalization  of some of the subsidiary  Banks, to fund mortgage
loan brokerage production and for other general corporate purposes.

2004 compared with 2003

         For the year ended  December 31,  2004,  the  Corporation  recorded net
income of  $3,209,000,  a decrease of $2,426,000,  or 43.1%,  from net income of
$5,635,000  for 2003. Net income per share for 2004 was $.74 compared with $1.31
for 2003. Diluted net income per share was $.72 for 2004 compared with $1.27 for
2003.  Return on average  assets was .67% for 2004 compared with 1.25% for 2003.
Return on average  shareholders'  equity was 6.41% for 2004 compared with 12.17%
for 2003.

         The  change  in net  income  for 2004  was  affected  primarily  by the
following factors:

o    the 2004 loan loss provision  expense increased by $3,983,000 over 2003 due
     primarily to problems associated with several large commercial loans;
o    mortgage  loan  brokerage   income  decreased   $2,070,000   because  of  a
     significant reduction in residential mortgage loan production;
o    noninterest  expenses  decreased  by  $893,000,   primarily  due  to  lower
     commission  based  salaries  and  benefits  paid  for  mortgage   brokerage
     staffing;
o    increased average holdings of loans and investments  resulted in a $606,000
     increase in interest and dividend income;
o    interest expense was decreased by $529,000  primarily due to lower interest
     rates paid on time deposits and lower funding costs for mortgage  brokerage
     activities;
o    income tax expense was reduced by  $1,376,000  due to the net effect of the
     factors enumerated above.

         Net  interest  income for 2004  increased by  $1,135,000  over the 2003
amount due to increases of $587,000 and $90,000 in interest  income on loans and
investment securities,  respectively,  and decreases of $465,000 and $545,000 in

21

interest   expenses   related  to  time  deposits  and  short-term   borrowings,
respectively. Interest expense for long-term debt increased by $401,000 in 2004,
primarily due to the issuance of $10,000,000 of junior  subordinated debt by the
Corporation

Credit Quality Issues in 2005 and 2004

         The greatest  single factor in changing net income in 2005 and 2004 was
the tremendous increase in the provisions for loan losses. In 2005 the provision
was  $9,637,000  and in 2004 it was  $5,102,000.  This compares to $1,119,000 in
2003, $1,033,000 in 2002 and $650,000 in 2001.

         More than 80% of the provisions made in 2005 and 2004 were attributable
to credit  quality  issues at one of the  Corporation's  subsidiary  banks.  The
Corporation  became  aware of credit  quality  issues at the bank in mid-2004 in
connection  with  the  departure  of a  senior  lending  officer  of  the  bank.
Management  initially became aware of a number of loans with significant  issues
and began a program to strengthen and collect those loans. That program was only
partially successful as some of the borrowers' financial conditions and value of
collateral deteriorated during collection efforts. The Corporation also realized
that it would benefit from  strengthening its credit risk management  system. In
2004 that effort was  carried  out by  redirecting  the  Corporation's  existing
capabilities to focus on the bank in question.

         As part of the  ongoing  process  of risk  assessment  and  mitigation,
management hired a Chief Credit Officer for the Corporation  early in the second
quarter of 2005. Also, during the second quarter of 2005 management  changed its
outside  independent  loan review firm to gain greater  resources and expertise.
The changes allowed the Corporation to obtain the benefits of detailed, thorough
reviews of a greater portion of its loan portfolio in a shorter time period than
had previously been possible.

         During  2005 the  independent  loan  review  firm  reviewed  all of the
Corporation's  loan  relationships  greater than $400,000,  approximately 40% of
loans outstanding. Their review resulted in the movement of a significant number
and dollar  amount of loans into less  favorable  risk  grades.  In such  cases,
management  also undertook a review of the value of any collateral  securing the
loans to estimate the net  realizable  value of the collateral in the event of a
default.

         In some  cases,  management  concluded  that it was  probable  that the
Corporation  would be  unable  to  collect  the  amounts  due  according  to the
contractual terms of the loan agreement and categorized those loans as impaired.
In other cases, the downgraded loans were designated as potential problem loans.
Although designation as a potential problem loan does not represent management's
estimate  that the  Corporation  will suffer a loss with respect to the loan, it
does identify loans that merit close attention to reduce the risk of loss.

         The Corporation is required to estimate the  collectibility of its loan
portfolio  as of each  accounting  period  end  and,  as a  result,  provide  an
allowance  for loan losses.  The  allowance  for loan losses is increased by the
provision  for loan  losses  which is charged to expense  and by any  recoveries
received  on loans  previously  charged  off.  The  allowance  is  decreased  by
deducting the amount of uncollectible loans charged off. The reviews referred to
above were factored into management's  estimates of the probable losses inherent
in the  Corporation's  loan portfolio at December 31, 2004 and 2005 and resulted
in  substantial  increases in the amount of the allowance at each of those dates
which, in turn, was substantially  responsible for the very large provisions for
loan losses recorded in 2004 and 2005.

22

At year end 2005, approximately 55% of the Corporation's impaired loans
and 58% of the  potential  problem  loans  were  associated  with the same  bank
subsidiary,  although that bank  accounted for only 29.29% of the  Corporation's
total  loans.  Over the course of 2005,  management  of the  Corporation  took a
number  of  additional  actions  to  improve  credit  risk  management  at  that
subsidiary.  These included more aggressive  review of maturing loans to improve
the bank's collateral  position and the borrowers'  ability to service the debt;
the hiring of an experienced  special assets officer on a contract basis,  under
the supervision of the Chief Credit  Officer,  to work out problem loans; a more
frequent level of loan review  conducted by the external loan review firm; and a
mandatory  loan approval  review of larger loan  relationships  conducted by the
Chief  Credit  Officer  as well as the Loan  Committee  of the bank.  Management
believes  that  this  will  result  in a  significant  improvement  in the early
identification  of problem and potential  problem loans and it will also improve
the quality of new loans.

         Additional  information  about  the  Corporation's  provision  for loan
losses, allowance for loan losses, impaired loans and potential problem loans is
discussed under the heading "Allowance for Loan Losses," below.

Net Interest Income

         Net interest income,  the difference between interest income earned and
interest  expense  incurred,  is  the  principal  source  of  the  Corporation's
earnings.  Net interest  income is affected by changes in the levels of interest
rates and by  changes  in the  volume  and mix of  interest  earning  assets and
interest bearing  liabilities.  Beginning in mid-2004 and continuing  throughout
2005, the Federal Reserve Board steadily increased certain  short-term  interest
rates under its control.  These actions  resulted in similar  increases in other
market rates of interest,  primarily in the short and  intermediate  terms up to
about seven years.  Longer term rates remained at approximately  the same levels
as  previously.  These  actions  affected CBI in several  ways:  loan yields and
interest costs increased as interest rates on loans with variable interest rates
were reset and maturing  time  deposits and newly  acquired  time  deposits were
priced at  current  market  levels;  savings,  NOW and money  market  rates were
adjusted upward  primarily in response to market  competition for deposits;  and
borrowing  costs  increased as rates  associated  with those  instruments  moved
higher. Because longer-term rates were largely unaffected by the Federal Reserve
Board's  actions,  especially  those in the 15- to 30-year  range which  largely
influences mortgage rates, the mortgage  subsidiary  experienced a resurgence in
demand during 2005. Consequently, fees and other mortgage brokerage income items
were favorably affected.

         From 2002 and  through  the first six months of 2004,  market  interest
rates were generally stable.  Beginning in 2000 and continuing until late in the
second  quarter  of 2004,  the  Federal  Reserve  Board's  policy was to provide
stimulus to the U.S. economy by first setting,  and then  maintaining,  interest
rates at low  levels.  The  effects  of these  actions on the  Corporation  were
varied. The Corporation's overall funding costs decreased during the period, but
there were similar  decreases in the yields  realized on loans and  investments.
The mortgage subsidiary  experienced extremely large volumes of originations and
refinancing  activity,  which  strained  its ability both to fund and to process
those  transactions  until the volume  diminished in the fourth quarter of 2003.
Refinancing activity during the first six months of 2004 was driven primarily by
uncertainty  and concern about whether the Federal  Reserve Board would begin to
cause  interest  rates to rise,  and, if so, the  magnitude  and timing of those
increases.

         Net interest income was $20,801,000,  $17,843,000,  and $16,708,000 for
2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively.  The amounts of interest income increased in
both 2005 and 2004, and interest expense amounts increased in 2005 and decreased

23

in 2004. Average earning assets and average interest bearing liabilities amounts
increased steadily over those two years, also.

         The following table presents the average  balance  sheets,  the average
yield and the interest  earned on earning  assets,  and the average rate and the
interest  expense on interest  bearing  liabilities for the years ended December
31, 2005, 2004, and 2003.

24

(1)  Interest income on tax-exempt loans and investment  securities has not been
     calculated on a tax-equivalent basis.
(2)  Nonaccruing loans are included in the average balances and income from such
     loans is recognized on a cash basis.
(3)  Interest income includes immateral amounts of loan fees.
(4)  Total interest earning assets yield less total interest bearing liabilities
     rate.
(5)  Net yield  equals net interest  income  divided by total  interest  earning
     assets.

25

During 2005,  loans,  including loans held for sale,  grew  $17,692,000
over the amount as of December 31, 2004.  Average loans including loans held for
sale, however, were $55,323,000 more in 2005 than in 2004 and represented almost
all of the  increase in average  total  interest  earning  assets  during  2005.
Deposit  growth  was  robust in 2005,  as well,  with the 2005  year-end  amount
increasing by  $40,751,000  over the 2004  year-end,  and the average  amount of
deposits  increasing by $53,196,000  for 2005 over the  comparable  2004 amount.
Deposits are generally  obtained  from within the Banks' market areas.  Although
some of the Banks obtain limited  amounts of deposit  funding through the use of
brokered time deposits,  the amounts of such deposits do not create  significant
liquidity  concerns  for the  affected  Banks.  The Banks  have  recently  begun
accepting Health Savings Account deposits as an additional product offering, but
the amounts of such deposits are not yet significant.  Interest costs associated
with deposits increased primarily due to increased market rates.

         By year end 2004  compared  with 2003,  gross  loans grew  $61,543,000,
while deposits grew  $44,754,000.  Because the growth in deposit  liabilities in
2004 was not sufficient to fund the  Corporation's  growth in loans,  management
took  several  actions.  Early in the second  quarter of 2004,  the  Corporation
issued  approximately  $10,000,000  in  long-term  junior  subordinated  debt to
provide additional capital to some of the banking  subsidiaries and to provide a
more stable funding source for its mortgage banking operations. As a result, the
Corporation reduced its reliance on short-term,  relatively high cost borrowings
in 2004. The Corporation  continues to maintain a short-term line of credit with
another financial  institution which can be used to fund surges in mortgage loan
demand.  The  Corporation  also changed its  allocation  of assets such that its
investments  in federal funds sold and securities  available-for-sale  decreased
significantly  by the end of 2004  compared  with 2003.  This also  allowed  the
Corporation  to invest  significantly  more dollars in the higher  yielding loan
asset category.

         Time  deposits are the largest  category of the  Corporation's  deposit
liabilities.  Interest rates paid for such  liabilities  increased  during 2005.
Accordingly,  total interest  expense reversed its recent trend and increased to
$10,805,000 in 2005 from  $7,031,000 in 2004 and $7,560,000 in 2003. The average
rates paid for time  deposits  increased to 3.06% in 2005 from 2.24% in 2004 and
2.54%  in  2003.  Interest  expenses  for  short-term  borrowings  were  largely
unchanged in 2005,  primarily due to the lower  average  amounts of that funding
source.  Long-term debt is composed of fixed rate advances from the Federal Home
Loan  Bank  of  Atlanta  and  variable-rate   junior  subordinated  debt.  Until
short-term  interest rate  increases  cease,  the  Corporation  expects that its
interest expenses will continue to increase, as well.

         The table  "Volume and Rate  Variance  Analysis"  provides a summary of
changes in net interest  income  resulting from changes in volume and changes in
rate.  The  changes in volume are the  difference  between the current and prior
year's balances multiplied by the prior year's rate. The changes in rate are the
difference  between the current and prior  year's rate  multiplied  by the prior
year's balance.

         As shown in the table, the increases in net interest income during each
of the past two years primarily are due to higher volumes of earning assets.  In
addition, by moving quickly to increase yields on interest earning assets during
2005 while limiting  increases in rates paid, the Corporation was able to obtain
favorable  results  from  the rate  component,  as well.  Loan  growth  has been
prominent in contributing to increases in interest income.

26

Volume and Rate Variance Analysis

*     The  rate/volume  variance  for  each  category  has been  allocated  on a
      consistent basis between rate and volume variances based on the percentage
      of rate or volume variance to the sum of the two absolute variances except
      in  categories  having  balances  in only one period.  In such cases,  the
      entire variance is attributed to volume variance.

Although management currently expects that interest rates will continue
to increase in 2006, management has not presently identified any factors that it
believes  might cause  interest  rates to increase  sharply in a short period of
time.  However,  changes in  interest  rates that can  significantly  affect the
Corporation,   positively  or  negatively,  are  possible.  In  the  absence  of
significant  changes in market interest rate levels, any significant  changes in
net  interest  income  during 2006 are  expected  to result from  changes in the
volumes of  interest  earning  assets  and  liabilities.  Management  expects to
continue  using its marketing  strategies to increase the  Corporation's  market
share of both  deposits  and  quality  loans  within  its  market  areas.  These
strategies involve offering attractive  interest rates and outstanding  customer
service.

Provision for Loan Losses

         The  provision  for  loan  losses  is  charged  to  earnings  based  on
management's  continuing  review and  evaluation  of the loan  portfolio and its
estimate of the adequacy of the related  allowance  for loan losses.  Provisions
for loan losses  totaled  $9,637,000,  $5,102,000,  and $1,119,000 for the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,  respectively.  Net charge-offs for 2005
were  $2,038,000,  compared  with  $4,961,000  and  $486,000  for 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

27

During  the  second  half of 2004,  management  became  aware of credit
quality  concerns  relative to the loan portfolio of one of its subsidiary banks
and a $3,435,000  real estate secured loan at another of its  subsidiary  banks.
Consequently,  during that period  significant  increases  were  recorded in the
Corporation's  loan  loss  provision   resulting  in  an  overall  provision  of
$5,102,000 for the year.

         In 2005,  the  Corporation's  external  loan review firm  reviewed  the
larger loan  relationships  at the subsidiary bank with credit quality  concerns
about its loan  portfolio.  Based on those  reviews,  and further  analysis  and
review  conducted by  management,  significant  increases  were  recorded in the
Corporation's  loan loss  provision  during the last two quarters of 2005.  This
resulted in a provision of  $9,637,000  for the year so that,  in the opinion of
management,  the  allowance  for loan  losses  would be  adequate  to absorb the
probable losses remaining in the loan portfolio.

         Because of personnel changes as well as the Corporation's  upgrading of
its  credit  risk  management  systems,  management  does not  believe  that the
magnitude of the  provisions for loan losses in 2004 and 2005 represent a trend,
although it realizes that the level of provisions may remain somewhat above 2003
levels as the problem loans and potential problem loans which contributed to the
high level of provisions in 2004 and 2005 are finally resolved.

         See "Impaired Loans,"  "Potential  Problem Loans,"  "Allowance for Loan
Losses,"  and "The  Application  of Critical  Accounting  Policies"  for further
discussion of the loans and  provisions for loan losses  referenced  above and a
discussion of the methodology  used and the factors  considered by management in
its estimate of the allowance for loan losses.

Noninterest Income

         Noninterest  income for 2005  increased  by  $725,000 or 10.0% over the
2004  amount,  primarily  as a result of increased  mortgage  brokerage  income.
Interest rates  associated with mortgage loans did not change  significantly  in
2005,  and the demand for  housing in the  Corporation's  market  areas  remains
strong. Service charges on deposit accounts increased by $158,000 in 2005 due to
increased management oversight of fee waivers and changes in the fee structure.

         Noninterest income for 2004 decreased by $1,847,000 or 20.2% from 2003,
primarily due to a $2,070,000 or 39.8%  decrease in mortgage  brokerage  income.
This decrease  resulted from a  mortgage-industry-wide  slowdown in  refinancing
activity  in 2004.  The  Corporation  inititated  measures  early in the  second
quarter of 2004 to decrease  the costs and  complexity  of funding the  mortgage
brokerage  operation.  Those  measures  included  establishing  CRM  as  a  loan
production  office of one of its subsidiary  banks,  closing loans in the bank's
name, and assigning the loan back to CRM upon the loans' sale into the secondary
market.  Management  estimates  that the  process  resulted  in cost  savings of
approximately  $183,000  for the  Corporation  over the final three  quarters of
2004.

         Service charges on deposit accounts were $112,000 lower in 2004 than in
2003.  This  resulted  from a slight  decrease in the volume of  returned  check
charges  and a slowing in demand for the  automated  overdraft  service.  During
2004, gains on the sale of investment  securities  totaled $76,000 compared with
losses of $252,000 in 2003.

Noninterest Expenses

         Noninterest  expense for 2005 increased by $2,352,000 or 15.6% over the
2004  amount.  Higher  salaries  and  employee  benefits  expenses  were largely
responsible for this increase.  These items  increased by $1,304,000,  primarily
due to the operation of an additional  office of Florence National Bank in 2005,
higher commissions and bonuses paid by the mortgage  subsidiary,  and the hiring
of a new Chief Executive Officer, a Chief Credit Officer,  and a Human Resources
Director.  Expenses  related to  premises  and  equipment  increased  in 2005 by

28

$250,000 over the 2004 amount due to higher depreciation  expenses that resulted
from an additional office of Florence National Bank and equipment  purchased and
placed in service during the year. Construction of a new headquarters office and
operations  building  was  completed  during the fourth  quarter of 2005 and the
building  was placed in service in the first  quarter of 2006.  The  Corporation
recorded $50,000 in relocation expenses in 2005 for moving to the new building.

         Noninterest  expenses  for 2004  decreased by $893,000 or 5.6% from the
2003 amount, primarily due to lower expenses for salaries and employee benefits.
Such  expenses  were reduced  primarily  because of the decline in mortgage loan
originations resulting in less commission expense.

Income Taxes

         Income tax expense for 2005 was  $765,000,  a decrease of $1,006,000 or
56.8% from $1,771,000  recorded for 2004.  Income tax expense for 2004 decreased
$1,376,000  or 43.7% from the 2003  amount.  The  decreasing  income tax expense
amounts  resulted  directly from the lower amounts of income before income taxes
during 2005 and 2004. The effective  income tax rate (income tax expense divided
by income before income taxes) was 43.1%,  35.6%,  and 35.8% for 2005,  2004 and
2003,  respectively.  The effective tax rate for 2005 is abnormally high because
South Carolina  requires that each of the four subsidiary  banks file a separate
income tax return.  One of the subsidiary  banks recorded a loss for 2005. South
Carolina  bank tax is  based on a bank's  net  income  for  financial  reporting
purposes but does not provide any offsetting benefit for operating losses.

INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO

         The Corporation's investment portfolio consists primarily of short- and
intermediate-term   U.S.  Treasury  and  U.S.  Government  agency  debt  issues.
Investment  securities  averaged  $60,336,000 in 2005,  $58,747,000 in 2004, and
$54,662,000 in 2003.

         The table below  summarizes the amortized cost and estimated fair value
of the Corporation's investment portfolio for the past three years.

Securities Portolio Composition

The following is a summary of maturities and weighted average yields of
securities as of December 31, 2005:

29

Securities Portfolio Maturities and Yields

(1)  Yields on tax-exempt  securities of states and political  subdivisions have
     not been calculated on a tax-equivalent basis.
(2)  Maturity category based on final stated maturity dates. Average maturity is
     expected  to be  substantially  shorter  because of the  monthly  return of
     principal on certain securities.

         On an ongoing basis,  management  assigns securities upon purchase into
one of two categories  (available-for-sale or held-to-maturity) based on intent,
taking into  consideration  other factors including  expectations for changes in
market  rates  of  interest,   liquidity   needs,   asset/liability   management
strategies, and capital requirements.  The Corporation has never held securities
for trading purposes.  No transfers of  available-for-sale  or  held-to-maturity
securities to other categories were made in any of the years 2003 through 2005.

          During 2005, the  composition  of the securities  portfolio was little
changed.  The amount of securities  held at the end of 2005 was only  $3,155,000
more  than the  amount  held at the end of 2004.  Purchases  for the  securities
accounts  during 2005 were  generally  made to replace  issues called or matured
during the year.  Securities purchased had maturities ranging from approximately
two years to approximately eight years in the future.

          During 2004,  management  changed the  composition  of the  securities
portfolio, primarily by decreasing the amounts invested in securities throughout
the year. Despite investment  securities being larger in average amount in 2004,
the  Corporation's  investment  in such  instruments  at  December  31, 2004 was
$9,468,000  less than at December  31,  2003.  Proceeds  from sales and calls of
investment  securities  and reductions in federal funds sold were used, in part,
to fund loan growth in excess of the growth in deposits,  short-term  borrowings
and long-term debt.

          During  the  years  ended  December  31,  2005,  2004  and  2003,  the
Corporation  sold  investment  securities  for  gross  proceeds  of  $4,412,000,
$13,676,000, and $2,068,000,  respectively. Realized (losses) and gains on those
transactions  were  ($10,000),  $76,000,  and  ($252,000)  for the  years  ended
December  31,  2005,  2004 and  2003,  respectively.  Securities  may be sold to
provide  liquidity,  to reduce  interest rate risk, or for other reasons.  There
were no sales of held-to-maturity securities in any of the periods presented.

         All  mortgage-backed  securities held by the Corporation were issued by
the  Federal  Home Loan  Mortgage  Corporation,  the Federal  National  Mortgage
Association or the Government National Mortgage Association.

30

LOAN PORTFOLIO

         Management believes the loan portfolio is adequately diversified. There
are  no  significant  concentrations  of  loans  in any  particular  individual,
industry  or groups  of  related  individuals  or  industries,  and there are no
foreign loans.

         The  following  table shows the  composition  of the loan  portfolio by
category:

                                    Loan Portfolio Composition

Commercial,  financial,  and agricultural loans, primarily representing
loans made to small and medium size businesses,  may be made on either a secured
or an  unsecured  basis.  When  taken,  security  usually  consists  of liens on
inventories,  receivables,  equipment,  and furniture  and  fixtures.  Unsecured
business loans are generally short-term with emphasis on repayment strengths and
low debt-to-worth  ratios.  Commercial lending involves significant risk because
repayment usually depends on the cash flows generated by a borrower's  business,
and debt service  capacity can deteriorate  because of downturns in national and
local economic conditions. Each of the banking subsidiaries has a Loan Committee
which  is  responsible   for  overseeing  the  credit  granting  and  monitoring
processes.  The Corporation's  Chief Credit Officer has specific  authority over
significantly large loan requests.

         Real estate loans consist of construction loans and other loans secured
by mortgages.  Because the Corporation's  subsidiaries are community banks, real
estate  loans  comprise  the bulk of the loan  portfolio.  Loan  policies of the
subsidiary Banks generally limit  loan-to-value  ratios for real estate loans to
80%.

         The Banks  generally  do not  compete  with 15 and 30 year  fixed  rate
secondary  market  mortgage  interest  rates, so they have elected to pursue the
origination  of  mortgage  loans  that could  easily be sold into the  secondary
mortgage  market.  CRM also  originates  such  loans  for sale in the  secondary
market.  These loans are generally  pre-qualified  with various  underwriters to
facilitate  the sales process.  In 2005,  2004 and 2003,  the  Corporation  sold
$213,195,000,  $174,074,000, and $309,914,000,  respectively, of such loans. The
Corporation's  subsidiaries  may  originate  mortgage  loans  for their own loan
portfolios.  Such loans are usually for a shorter term than loans  originated to
sell and usually have a variable rate or the terms of the loans require that the
interest rate be adjusted to the current market rate within a three to five year
term.

         Consumer  installment  loans to individuals are generally for personal,
automobile, or household purposes and may be secured or unsecured.

31

The  Corporation  has a  geographic  concentration  of loans within the
Banks' market areas  because of the nature of its  business.  As of December 31,
2005,  the  Corporation  had no other  significant  concentrations  of credit to
customers engaged in similar business activities.

Unsecured Loans

         The Corporation  does not  aggressively  seek to make unsecured  loans,
since these loans may be somewhat more risky than  collateralized  loans.  There
are, however,  occasions when it is in the business interests of the Corporation
to provide  short-term,  unsecured  loans to its most  credit-worthy  customers.
Unsecured loans  accommodate the credit needs of those customers and provide the
banks  the  opportunity  to earn  additional  interest  income  through  pricing
commensurate  with  the  loans'  increased  risk.  At  December  31,  2005,  the
Corporation had  approximately  $23,000,000,  or 5.6% of its loan portfolio,  in
unsecured  loans.  As of December 31, 2004, the  Corporation  had  approximately
$25,000,000 in unsecured  loans, or 6.4% of its loan  portfolio.  Such loans are
made on the basis of management's  evaluation of the customer's ability to repay
and net worth.

         As of  December  31,  2005,  unsecured  loans  totaling  $180,000  were
included in nonaccrual  loans,  $421,000 of such loans were included in accruing
loans 90 or more days past due, and  $1,371,000  of such loans were  included in
potential problem loans.

Maturity and Interest Sensitivity Distribution of Loans

         The  following  table sets forth the maturity and interest  sensitivity
distribution  of the  Corporation's  loans,  by type, as of December 31, 2005 as
well as the type of interest requirement on loans due after one year.

Impaired Loans, Other Nonperforming Loans and Potential Problem Loans

         Impaired loans are those loans on which,  based on current  information
and events,  it is probable that the  Corporation  will be unable to collect all
amounts due  according to the  contractual  terms of the loan  agreement.  Loans
which  management  has identified as impaired  generally are  nonaccrual  loans.
Following is a summary of the Corporation's  nonaccrual and other  nonperforming
loans included in total loans at December 31 of each year shown:

32

Nonaccrual and Past Due Loans

Gross income that would have been recorded for the years ended December
31, 2005,  2004 and 2003, if nonaccrual  loans had been performing in accordance
with their original terms was  approximately  $448,000,  $63,000,  and $117,000,
respectively.  No cash basis interest  income was  recognized in 2005,  2004 and
2003 on non-accrual loans.

         The Corporation's  accounting policies on nonaccrual and impaired loans
are discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

         Potential  problem  loans,  a lower level of concern than  impaired and
nonperforming loans, are defined as loans where information about the borrowers'
credit  problems  causes  management to have more than normal  concern about the
borrowers' ability to comply with the original repayment terms.

         The following table is a summary of  nonperforming  loans and potential
problem loans for each of the past four quarters.

Nonaccrual loans increased $6,710,000 during 2005. The major components
of nonaccrual loans and the increase are discussed below.

33

Approximately   $2,434,000   of  the   December   31,   2005  and  2004
nonperforming  loan amounts  represent the balance of a loan  relationship  that
originated in July 2004 to finance the purchase of a business. During the fourth
quarter of 2004, management became aware that the business was not performing as
expected and the borrower  stopped  making the required  payments.  The borrower
alleged that  financial  information  furnished by the seller and relied upon in
establishing  the value of the business (and its purchase price) was fraudulent.
Management determined during the fourth quarter of 2004 that the loan had become
collateral  dependent and wrote the loan down to the  estimated  net  realizable
value of the collateral as of December 31, 2004. An independent appraisal of the
real estate,  fixtures and  equipment of the business was  completed  during the
second quarter of 2005 under the assumption  that the business was not operating
as  a  going  concern.  That  appraisal  supports  management's   estimated  net
realizable  value and the  loan's  carrying  amount has not since  changed.  The
Corporation   is  presently   exercising   forbearance   with  respect  to  this
relationship  and continues to work with the borrower who is actively  trying to
sell the business as a going  concern.  Management has retained legal counsel to
assist with respect to this loan.

         The other  nonperforming  loans consist of  approximately  100 loans to
various individuals and businesses with an aggregate balance of $5,880,000.  The
amounts of the individual loans range up to approximately $780,000.

         Approximately $4,353,000 of the increase in nonaccrual loans during the
third quarter of 2005 represents larger loan relationships that were transferred
from the  potential  problem loan  category as the  borrowers'  failures to meet
their obligations  became more severe. In addition,  current  evaluations of the
collateral  held indicated  potential  short-falls  in those values.  During the
fourth  quarter  of  2005,  approximately  $2,243,000  of  loans  were  added to
nonaccrual  loans due to  performance  issues  and/or as a result of  continuing
reviews of the loan portfolio,  including valuations of collateral.  Charge-offs
of loans from the nonaccrual  category  approximated  $437,000 during the fourth
quarter of 2005.

         Loans  that are 90 days or more  past due and still  accruing  interest
represent  loans  with  significant  performance  issues,  but where  management
believes that each loan's  collateral  position  provides enough protection that
the bank  expects  full  recovery of  principal  and  interest  on the loan.  At
December  31,  2005 this  category  represented  approximately  .18% of the loan
portfolio.

         At December 31, 2005, the  Corporation had identified  $29,313,000,  or
7.08%, of the loan portfolio, as potential problem loans. This is an increase of
$24,685,000 over the amount as of December 31, 2004.  Approximately  $17,485,000
or 71% of this  increase in potential  problem  loans  resulted  from risk grade
changes  recommended  by a new  loan  review  firm  during  their  initial  loan
portfolio   reviews   in  2005   and   management-initiated   loan   downgrades.
Approximately  $7,200,000  or 29% of this  increase in potential  problem  loans
resulted from a consumer loan portfolio credit scoring project  conducted during
the fourth  quarter by  management  at the banking  subsidiary  most impacted by
problem loans.

         The amount of potential  problem loans does not represent  management's
estimate of  potential  losses  since a  significant  portion of these loans are
secured by real estate and other forms of collateral.  Approximately  $1,371,000
of potential problem loans were unsecured as of December 31, 2005.

         Management will continue to closely monitor the levels of nonperforming
and  potential  problem  loans and address the  weaknesses  in those  credits to
enhance the amount of ultimate collection or recovery of these assets.

34

Foreclosed Assets

         Foreclosed  assets were carried in the  consolidated  balance sheets at
$185,000,  $252,000,  and  $327,000  as of  December  31,  2005,  2004 and 2003,
respectively.  Foreclosed  assets are  initially  recorded at fair  value,  less
estimated  costs to sell, at the date of  foreclosure,  establishing  a new cost
basis.  Loan losses  arising from the  acquisition  of such property are charged
against  the  allowance  for  loan  losses  as  of  that  date.   Subsequent  to
foreclosure,  valuations are periodically performed by management and the assets
are  carried at the lower of the new cost basis or fair  value,  less  estimated
costs  to sell.  Revenues  and  expenses  from  operations  and  changes  in any
subsequent  valuation  allowance are included in net foreclosed assets costs and
expenses.

Special Assets Management

         In late 2005 management hired an experienced  Special Assets Officer on
a contract  basis.  The initial term of his agreement  with the  Corporation  is
through June 30, 2006.  Under the direction and  supervision of the Chief Credit
Officer, he will assist in working to aggressively reduce the aggregate level of
problem loans through all appropriate banking and legal options.

ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

         The table, "Analysis of the Allowance for Loan Losses," summarizes loan
balances  as of the end of each  period  indicated,  averages  for each  period,
changes in the allowance  arising from mergers,  charge-offs  and  recoveries by
loan  category,  and  additions  to the  allowance  which  have been  charged to
expense.

35

Analysis of the Allowance for Loan Losses

A discussion of the  allocation of the allowance for loan losses is set
forth under the section "The Application of Critical Accounting Policies."

         The  Corporation  operates four  independent  community  banks in South
Carolina.  Under the provisions of law and  regulations  governing  banks,  each
bank's board of directors is  responsible  for  determining  the adequacy of its
bank's loan loss allowance.  In addition,  each bank is supervised and regularly
examined by the Office of the  Comptroller  of the Currency  (the "OCC") (or the
South Carolina State Board of Financial  Institutions (the "State Board") in the
case of the Ridgeway bank) or the Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation  (the
"FDIC"). As a normal part of a safety and soundness examination,  bank examiners
assess and comment on the adequacy of a bank's allowance for loan losses and may

36

require that changes be made in the  allowance.  The allowance  presented in the
consolidated  financial  statements is on an aggregated  basis and as such might
differ from the allowance  that would be presented if the  Corporation  had only
one banking subsidiary.

         A considerable degree of judgment is exercised in computing an estimate
of the  allowance  for loan  losses.  Management's  judgment  must be applied in
assessing the current  creditworthiness of borrowers and in estimating uncertain
future   events  and  their   effects   based  on  currently   known  facts  and
circumstances. Changes in the estimated allowance for loan losses arising as new
events occur or more  information  is obtained are  accounted  for as changes in
accounting estimates in the accounting period in which such changes occur.

         Management  reviews its allowance for loan losses utilizing three broad
loan  categories:  commercial,  real estate and  consumer  installment  loans to
individuals.  Within these categories, the allowance for loan losses is composed
of specific and general  amounts.  Specific  allowance  amounts are provided for
individual  loans based on management's  evaluation of loss exposure taking into
account  the  current  payment  status,  underlying  collateral  and other known
information  about the  borrower's  circumstances.  Typically,  these  loans are
identified as impaired or  nonperforming,  or have been  assigned  internal risk
grades of  management  attention,  special  mention,  substandard  or  doubtful.
General allowance amounts are provided for all other loans,  excluding those for
which specific amounts were determined,  by applying  estimated loss percentages
to the portfolio  categorized using risk grades.  These percentages are based on
management's  current  evaluation  with  consideration  given to historical loss
experience,   general  national  and  local  economic  and  business  conditions
affecting key lending market areas,  credit quality trends,  collateral  values,
loan volumes, portfolio seasoning, and any identified credit concentrations. The
findings of internal  and  external  credit  reviews and results  from  external
audits and regulatory examinations are also considered.

         The  following  table  presents  the  allocation  of the  Corporation's
allowance for loan losses,  as of December 31, 2001 through 2005,  compared with
the percentage of loans in the applicable categories to total loans.

The  Corporation  utilizes a risk grading  system for all loans held in
the  portfolio.  This system  involves  the lending  officers'  assigning a risk
grade, on a loan-by-loan  basis,  considering  information  about the borrower's

37

capacity  to  repay,  collateral,  payment  history,  and other  known  factors.
Assigned risk grades are updated monthly for any known changes in  circumstances
affecting  the borrower or the loan.  The risk grading  system is monitored on a
continuing  basis by  management  and the external  credit  review firm which is
independent of the lending function.

         The following  discussion  presents  specific  factors that  influenced
management's  judgment  of the amounts of  additions  to the  allowance  through
provisions  charged to operating expenses for each of the years presented in the
table.

         In 2001,  $650,000 was  provided for loan losses for normally  expected
loan loss expense and due to  significant  growth in the loan  portfolio  during
that year and the expectation that the loans booked in the newer Florence market
could exhibit a higher loss potential than the Corporation's older markets.

         In 2002,  $1,033,000  was provided for loan losses due to growth in the
loan portfolio  totaling  $76,579,000,  of which  approximately  $44,078,000 was
obtained in the merger of Ridgeway Bankshares, Inc. Furthermore, net charge-offs
almost  tripled  compared with the prior year and an increase of $5,827,000  was
noted in the combined  amounts of nonaccrual  loans,  accruing  loans 90 or more
days past due, and potential problem loans.

         In 2003,  $1,119,000  was provided for loan  losses,  primarily  due to
growth  in the loan  portfolio  and a  significant  increase  in the  amount  of
nonaccrual loans.

         The $5,102,000 and $9,637,000  provisions for loan losses  recorded for
2004 and 2005, respectively, resulted from the circumstances detailed above.

DEPOSITS

         The average  deposits for the  Corporation for the years ended December
31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are summarized below:

Deposits  are the  primary  source of funds for the Banks'  lending and
investing  activities.  Deposits are attracted principally from customers within

38

the Banks' local market areas through the offering of a variety of products with
varying features and by offering competitive interest rates.

         At December 31, 2005 the Corporation had $98,428,000 in certificates of
deposit of $100,000  or more.  Approximately  $36,385,000  mature  within  three
months,  $23,876,000  mature over three through six months,  $23,559,000  mature
over six months  through  twelve months and  $14,608,000  mature after one year.
This level of large time deposits, as well as the growth in other deposits,  can
be attributed  to planned  growth by  management.  The majority of time deposits
$100,000 and over is acquired within the Company's  market areas in the ordinary
course of business from customers with standing banking relationships.  However,
as of December 31, 2005,  the Banks had $7,201,000 in brokered  certificates  of
deposit,  all of which were issued in  denominations  of  $100,000 or over.  The
brokered  certificates of deposit mature throughout 2006 and have interest rates
ranging from 2.60% to 4.10%.  It is a common  industry  practice not to consider
time deposits of $100,000 or more as core deposits since their  retention can be
influenced  heavily  by  rates  offered.   Therefore,  such  deposits  have  the
characteristics  of  shorter-term  purchased  funds.   Certificates  of  deposit
$100,000  and  over  require  that  the  Corporation  achieve  and  maintain  an
appropriate matching of maturity  distributions and a diversification of sources
to achieve an appropriate level of liquidity.

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

         The  Corporation's  short-term  borrowings may consist of federal funds
purchased and securities  sold under  agreements to repurchase,  which generally
have maturities  ranging from daily to no more than four days, and mortgage loan
warehouse and general purpose lines of credit payable.  As of December 31, 2005,
securities sold under agreements to repurchase totaled $5,372,000. These amounts
are collateralized by investment  securities and the interest rate is subject to
change daily.  Federal funds purchased totaled $421,000 as of December 31, 2005,
are  unsecured and mature on a daily basis.  $1,182,000  was  outstanding  under
warehouse  lines of credit as of December 31, 2005.  Other  short-term  debt was
outstanding on December 31, 2005 under an unsecured  short-term  credit facility
granted to the Corporation by another financial institution.  That variable-rate
facility expires during the fourth quarter of 2006.

         Summary  information  about total short-term  borrowings is provided in
the following table.

LONG-TERM DEBT

         The Corporation's  banking subsidiaries are members of the Federal Home
Loan Bank of Atlanta ("FHLB").  As such, they have access to long-term borrowing
from the FHLB.  As of  December  31,  2005,  the Banks had  borrowed  a total of
$21,886,000  from the FHLB.  The  borrowings are secured by blanket liens on all

39

qualifying first lien residential mortgage loans held by the Banks, specifically
excluding such loans originated for resale on the secondary market.

         Early in the second  quarter of 2004,  the  Corporation  sponsored  the
creation of SCB  Capital  Trust I (the  "Trust").  The Trust  issued  securities
totaling  $10,310,000.  The Trust  invested the proceeds of its debt issuance by
purchasing a like amount of junior  subordinated debt issued by the Corporation.
The  amount  of the  Corporation's  debt is  includible  in Tier 1  capital  for
purposes of computing regulatory required capital ratios.

RETURN ON EQUITY AND ASSETS

         The following  table shows the return on assets (net income  divided by
average total assets),  return on equity (net income divided by average equity),
dividend  payout ratio  (dividends  declared per share divided by net income per
share),  and equity to assets ratio  (average  equity  divided by average  total
assets) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.

Years Ended December 31,
                                                    ------------------------
                                                  2005       2004         2003
                                                  ----       ----         ----

Return on assets (ROA) ....................      0.19%       0.67%       1.25%
Return on equity (ROE) ....................      1.94%       6.41%      12.17%
Dividend payout ratio .....................    173.91%      54.05%      27.48%
Equity as a percent of assets .............      9.71%      10.48%      10.25%

LIQUIDITY

         Liquidity is the ability to meet current and future obligations through
liquidation  or maturity of existing  assets or the  acquisition  of  additional
liabilities.  Adequate  liquidity  is  necessary  to meet  the  requirements  of
customers for loans and deposit  withdrawals in a timely and economical  manner.
The most manageable  sources of liquidity are composed of liabilities,  with the
primary focus of liquidity  management  being on the ability to attract deposits
within the Banks' market areas.  Core deposits (total deposits less certificates
of deposit of  $100,000  or more)  provide a  relatively  stable  funding  base.
Certificates  of deposit of $100,000 or more are  generally  more  sensitive  to
changes  in rates,  so they must be  monitored  carefully.  Asset  liquidity  is
provided by several  sources,  including  amounts due from banks,  federal funds
sold, and investments available-for-sale.

         The Corporation maintains an  available-for-sale  investment securities
portfolio.   While  investment  securities  purchased  for  this  portfolio  are
generally purchased with the intent to be held to maturity,  such securities are
marketable  and  occasional  sales may occur  prior to  maturity  as part of the
process of  asset/liability  and  liquidity  management.  The  Corporation  also
occasionally  designates  securities  as  held-to-maturity.  Securities  in that
portion of the  portfolio  are  generally  not  considered  a primary  source of
liquidity.  Management  deliberately  maintains a relatively short-term maturity
schedule for its  investments  so that there is a continuing  stream of maturing
investments  that  enables  the  Corporation  to  supply  liquidity  to its loan
portfolio  and for customer  withdrawals.  In  addition,  to the extent that the
Corporation must maintain continuing  positions in investment  securities due to
pledging or other requirements, regular periodic maturities of investments helps
to ensure that the  Corporation  invests  funds  throughout  periods of changing
rates which tends to mitigate  the effects  such changes have on the fair values
of investment securities.

40

The Corporation has substantially more liabilities maturing in the next
12 months than it has assets maturing in the same period.  The Corporation  also
has legal  obligations to extend credit pursuant to loan  commitments,  lines of
credit and standby letters of credit which totaled $13,386,000, $42,974,000, and
$2,024,000,  respectively, at December 31, 2005 (see Note 15 to the consolidated
financial statements).  However, based on its historical experience, and that of
similar  companies,  the  Corporation  believes that it is unlikely that so many
deposits  would be withdrawn,  without  being  replaced by other  deposits,  and
extensions of credit would be required,  that the Corporation would be unable to
meet its liquidity needs with the proceeds of maturing  assets,  in the ordinary
course of business.

         The  Corporation  also maintains  various federal funds lines of credit
with  correspondent  banks and is able to borrow from the Federal Home Loan Bank
of Atlanta and the Federal Reserve's discount window.

         The  Corporation,  through  its Banks,  has a  demonstrated  ability to
attract  deposits from its market area.  Deposits grew from  $218,811,000  as of
December 31, 2000 to  $464,209,000 as of December 31, 2005, a five year compound
growth rate of 16.23%.  This consistently  growing base of deposits is the major
source of operating liquidity.

CAPITAL

Dividends

         The   Corporation   exists  as  a  legal  entity   distinct   from  its
subsidiaries. Its main sources of revenues consist of service fees and dividends
paid to it by the Banks.  The Banks are subject to various laws and  regulations
that  limit the  amounts  of  dividends  that  they may pay.  In  addition,  the
Corporation  and the  Banks  are each  subject  to  regulatory  minimum  capital
adequacy  guidelines.   These  regulatory  restrictions  have  not  historically
hindered the Corporation's or the Banks' ability to pay reasonable dividends and
no such restrictions are anticipated in 2006.

         During 2005, the Corporation  contributed  $3,000,000 of capital to two
of the Banks and received  dividends from the other Banks  totaling  $4,266,000.
Subject  to  restrictions  imposed by state laws and  federal  regulations,  the
Boards of Directors of the Banks could have declared  additional  dividends from
their  retained  earnings of up to  approximately  $5,747,000 as of December 31,
2005.  As of January 1, 2006,  the effect of those  restrictions  was to further
restrict the amount of dividends that the Banks could declare to $2,411,000. The
Corporation made dividend payments to shareholders of $1,761,000, $1,744,000 and
$1,554,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Capital Adequacy

         The Federal Reserve and federal bank  regulatory  agencies have adopted
risk-based  capital standards for assessing the capital adequacy of bank holding
companies and financial institutions. Under the risk-based capital requirements,
the  Corporation  and each of the Banks are required to maintain a minimum ratio
of total capital to risk-weighted  assets (including  certain  off-balance-sheet
activities,  such as letters  of  credit) of 8%. At least half of total  capital

41

must be composed of common equity,  retained  earnings and qualifying  perpetual
preferred stock and certain hybrid instruments,  less certain intangibles ("Tier
1 Capital").  The remainder may consist of certain  subordinated  debt or hybrid
capital  instruments,  qualified  preferred  stock and a  limited  amount of the
allowance for loan losses ("Tier 2 Capital,"  which,  along with Tier 1 Capital,
composes "Total  Capital").  Unrealized  gains and losses on  available-for-sale
securities generally are excluded from the calculation of the risk-based capital
ratios.  To  be  considered   well-capitalized   under  the  risk-based  capital
guidelines,  an institution must maintain a total risk-weighted capital ratio of
at least 10% and a Tier 1 risk-weighted ratio of at least 5%.

         Each of the  Federal  bank  regulatory  agencies  also has  established
minimum leverage capital  requirements  for banking  organizations.  Pursuant to
these  requirements,  banking  organizations  generally  must maintain a minimum
ratio of Tier 1 Capital to adjusted average quarterly assets equal to from 4% to
5%, subject to federal bank regulatory  evaluation of the institution's  overall
safety and soundness.

         Federal   regulators   may  categorize  an  institution  as  less  than
well-capitalized  based on subjective  criteria.  Management believes that there
are no  conditions  or events that would cause the  Corporation's  or the Banks'
capital  category to be other than  resulting  from  meeting  the minimum  ratio
requirements.

         Under the risk-based  capital  standards and pursuant to the provisions
of the Federal Deposit Insurance  Corporation  Improvement Act of 1991,  federal
bank regulatory agencies are required to implement prescribed "prompt corrective
actions" if an institution's  capital position deteriorates to specified levels.
The corrective  actions become  increasingly  stringent as the capital  position
continues to deteriorate.

         The Banks are each considered to be "well  capitalized"  for regulatory
purposes.  Detailed  information  on the  Corporation's  and the Banks'  capital
positions can be found in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.

         The mortgage subsidiary is also subject to minimum capital requirements
to maintain its  certification  as a HUD-approved  Title II Loan  Correspondent.
Certain investor and warehouse credit line agreements  require that the mortgage
subsidiary  maintain its HUD  certification.  Failure of CRM to meet its capital
requirements   could  result  in  a  significant   limitation  of  the  mortgage
subsidiary's ability to originate,  fund or sell loans, and therefore could have
a direct, material adverse effect on its business and the consolidated financial
statements. As of December 31, 2005, CRM exceeded its minimum regulatory capital
requirement by approximately $1,424,000.

         During the first quarter of 2004, the Corporation  acquired $10,310,000
in proceeds  from the  issuance of junior  subordinated  debt.  Of this  amount,
$3,000,000  was  used  to  provide  additional  capital  to two  of  the  Banks,
approximately  $1,400,000  was used to repay a short-term  line of credit of the
mortgage   subsidiary  and   approximately   $635,000  was  used  to  repay  the
Corporation's  short-term  borrowings.  The  remainder  is  being  used  for the
Corporation's general corporate purposes.  Under current Federal Reserve policy,
the  Corporation is allowed to treat the junior  subordinated  debt,  subject to
certain limitations, as Tier 1 Capital for capital adequacy purposes.

INFLATION

         The assets and  liabilities of the  Corporation  are mostly monetary in
nature. Accordingly, the financial results and operations of the Corporation are
much more affected by changes in interest rates than changes in inflation. There

42

is, however,  a strong correlation  between increasing  inflation and increasing
interest rates. The rate of inflation,  as measured by the average change in the
Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, has been moderate, but increasing,
over the past several years,  about 3.4% in 2005, 3.3% in 2004 and 1.9% in 2003.
Prospects  appear  reasonable for continued  moderate  inflation,  despite risks
related to energy prices and the political and military  situation in the Middle
East.  Although  inflation does not normally  affect a financial  institution as
dramatically  as it  does  businesses  with  large  investments  in  plants  and
inventories,  it does have an effect. During periods of high inflation there are
usually  corresponding  increases  in the  money  supply  and  banks  experience
above-average  growth in assets,  loans, and deposits.  General increases in the
prices of goods  and  services  also  result in  increased  operating  expenses.
Further,   inflation  may  adversely  affect  the  Corporation's  customers  and
indirectly affect the business of the Corporation.

OFF-BALANCE-SHEET   ARRANGEMENTS,   CONTRACTUAL   OBLIGATIONS   AND   CONTINGENT
LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS

         The  Corporation  presently only engages in limited  off-balance  sheet
arrangements.   Such   arrangements   are   defined  as   potentially   material
transactions,   agreements,   or  other  contractual   arrangements   which  the
Corporation  has  entered  into to  which  an  entity  unconsolidated  with  the
registrant is a party and, under which the  Corporation,  whether or not it is a
party to the arrangement, has, or in the future may have:

     o    any  obligation  under a  direct  or  indirect  guarantee  or  similar
          arrangement;
     o    a  retained  or  contingent  interest  in  assets  transferred  to  an
          unconsolidated  entity or similar  arrangement  that serves as credit,
          liquidity or market risk support to such entity for such assets;
     o    derivatives,  to the extent  that the fair value  thereof is not fully
          reflected as a liability or asset in the financial statements; or
     o    any obligation,  including a contingent  obligation,  arising out of a
          variable  interest  (as  referenced  in FASB  Interpretation  No.  46,
          Consolidation of Variable  Interest Entities (January 2003), as may be
          modified or supplemented),  in an  unconsolidated  entity that is held
          by, and  material  to, the  registrant,  where  such  entity  provides
          financing,  liquidity, market risk or credit support to, or engages in
          leasing,  hedging or  research  and  development  services  with,  the
          Corporation.

         The Corporation's off-balance sheet arrangements presently include only
commitments  to extend credit and standby  letters of credit.  Such  instruments
have  elements of credit risk in excess of the amount  recognized in the balance
sheet. The exposure to credit loss in the event of  nonperformance  by the other
parties to these  instruments is represented  by the  contractual,  or notional,
amount  of those  instruments.  Generally,  the same  credit  policies  used for
on-balance  sheet  instruments,  such  as  loans,  are  used in  extending  loan
commitments and letters of credit.  The following table sets out the contractual
or notional amounts of those arrangements:

43

December 31,
                                                               ------------
                                                            2005           2004
                                                            ----           ----
                                                          (Dollars in thousands)

Loan commitments ...................................       $13,386       $11,644
Unfunded commitments under lines of credit .........        42,974        43,312
Standby letters of credit ..........................         2,024         2,919

         Loan  commitments  involve  agreements to lend to a customer as long as
there is no violation of any condition established in the contract.  Commitments
generally  have fixed  expiration  dates or other  termination  clauses and some
involve payment of a fee. Many of the commitments are expected to expire without
being fully  drawn;  therefore,  the total amount of loan  commitments  does not
necessarily represent future cash requirements. Each customer's creditworthiness
is evaluated on a case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral obtained, if any,
upon  extension  of credit is based on  management's  credit  evaluation  of the
borrower. Collateral held varies but may include commercial and residential real
properties, accounts receivable, inventory and equipment.

         Standby letters of credit are conditional  commitments to guarantee the
performance of a customer to a third party.  The credit risk involved in issuing
standby  letters  of  credit  is the  same  as  that  involved  in  making  loan
commitments to customers.

         As described under  "Liquidity,"  management  believes that its various
sources of liquidity  provide the resources  necessary for the Banks to fund the
loan  commitments  and to perform under standby  letters of credit,  if the need
arises.  Neither  the Company  nor the Banks are  involved in other  off-balance
sheet  contractual  relationships or transactions that could result in liquidity
needs or other commitments or significantly impact earnings.

         The  Corporation's  contractual  cash obligations are summarized in the
following table.

THE APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

         The  consolidated  financial  statements are based on the selection and
application of accounting  principles generally accepted in the United States of
America, which require management to make estimates and assumptions about future
events  that  affect  the  amounts  reported  in the  financial  statements  and
accompanying  notes.  Future events and their effects cannot be determined  with
absolute  certainty.  Therefore,  the  determination  of estimates  requires the

44

exercise of judgment.  Actual results could differ from those estimates, and any
such  differences  may be  material  to  the  financial  statements.  Management
believes that the policy relating to the allowance for loan losses  discussed in
the section entitled  "Allowance for Loan Losses" may involve a higher degree of
judgment  and  complexity  in  its   application  and  represents  the  critical
accounting  policy  used  in  the  preparation  of the  Corporation's  financial
statements.  If different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, the results
could be materially different from the reported results.

IMPACT OF RECENT ACCOUNTING CHANGES

         Share-Based  Payment  Management adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123
(revised 2004) ("SFAS No. 123(R)"),  "Share-Based Payment," effective January 1,
2006,  as  required  under  the  provisions  of that  Statement  and  applicable
Securities and Exchange ("SEC")  Commission Rules. That Statement  requires that
stock-based  compensation  awards be measured  and  reported at their grant date
fair value, with their costs recognized generally over the vesting period of the
awards.  The fair value of such stock-based  awards is affected by the Company's
stock price and by  assumptions  regarding  a number of complex  and  subjective
variables  and the  related  tax  impact.  In  addition,  In  March,  2005,  the
Securities and Exchange  Commission issued its Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107
which  expresses the views of the SEC staff  regarding the  interaction  between
SFAS No 123(R) and certain SEC rules and  regulations as well as the SEC staff's
views  regarding the valuation of share-based  payment  arrangements  for public
companies.  The  provisions  of, and  guidance  provided in, SAB No. 107 will be
incorporated into the Company's implementation of SFAS No. 123(R).

         The Company will recognize the compensation cost for stock-based awards
on a straight-line  basis over the requisite service period for the entire award
and at present  intends to use the  modified  prospective  transition  method of
accounting  for  previously  issued  stock  options.   Accordingly,  only  costs
associated  with the unvested  portions of prior awards and awards granted after
December 31, 2005 will affect the  Company's  financial  position and results of
operations. All of the options previously granted by the Corporation were vested
as of December 31, 2005;  therefore,  no compensation  expense is expected to be
recognized in the future for previously awarded stock options.

         SFAS 123(R) also amends SFAS No. 95 to require that excess tax benefits
resulting  from those  transactions  be reported as financing  cash flows rather
than as a reduction of taxes paid.

         Management  expects  that  adoption of SFAS No.  123(R) will affect the
Company's  future net income and net income per share  calculations  in much the
same manner as previously  reported in the pro forma  disclosures as provided in
Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

         Other-Than-Temporarily  Impaired  Investments  On November 3, 2005, the
Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued FASB Staff  Position  ("FSP") FAS
115-1 and FAS 124-1 which reverts to  other-than-temporary  impairment  ("OTTI")
guidance that existed prior to the effective date of Emerging  Issues Task Force
("EITF") Issue 03-1. However, the new FSP retains the disclosure requirements of
03-1 that have been in effect since the end of 2003.

         FSP FAS 115-1 and 124-1 requires the application of a three-step  model
to assess and account for investments that may be impaired.  If an investment is
found to be impaired (its fair value is less than the recorded cost), the extent
of the  impairment is assessed  using the guidance  contained in Paragraph 16 of
SFAS No. 115, SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 5.M, Paragraph 6 of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion 18 and EITF Issue 99-20. If the assessment results in a

45

conclusion that the impairment is other-than-temporary, an impairment loss equal
to the amount  that the  investment's  recorded  cost  exceeds its fair value is
recognized  in earnings and the  investment's  carrying  value is reduced to its
fair value.  That fair value becomes the  investment's  new "cost" basis and any
subsequent recoveries of fair value are not recognized.  After recognition of an
impairment loss, income recognition is based on the investment's  estimated cash
flows rather than its contractual  cash flows, and any discount or premium would
be amortized over the remaining life of the security.

         The  provisions  of this FSP were adopted as of December  31, 2005,  as
permitted, and had no effects on the financial position or results of operations
of the Company.

         Accounting  Changes and Error  Corrections In May 2005, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Corrections." This Statement applies
to all voluntary changes in accounting  principles and to changes required by an
accounting  pronouncement  when  the  pronouncement  does not  include  specific
transition  provisions.  The  Statement  requires  that  changes  in  accounting
principles be applied  retrospectively  unless it is  impracticable to determine
either the  period-specific  effects or the cumulative  effect of the change. In
those  cases,  retrospective  application  of the new  accounting  principle  is
required  to be applied to the  balances  of assets  and  liabilities  as of the
beginning  of  the  earliest  period  for  which  retrospective  application  is
practicable  with a  corresponding  adjustment  to retained  earnings  (or other
appropriate equity account) at that time. If application of the new principle is
impracticable for all prior periods, then it is to be adopted prospectively from
the earliest date  practicable.  Only the direct effects of the change are to be
applied retrospectively; indirect changes are accounted for in the period of the
change.

         This Statement also requires that certain changes in accounting methods
be  accounted  for as a change in  accounting  estimate  affected by a change in
accounting principle with retrospective application applied.

         This  Statement  carries  forward  the  guidance of APB Opinion 20 with
regard  to  corrections  of  accounting  errors.  Restatement  of  prior  period
financial  statements is required in these cases,  with  adjustments made to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities,  with an offsetting  capital account
adjustment, as of the beginning of the first period presented.

         This Statement was adopted  effective January 1, 2006 and had no effect
on the  Company's  financial  position or results of  operations  for any period
presented in the consolidated financial statements.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

         As part of an ongoing  planning  process,  during the first  quarter of
2006, the Corporation's Board of Directors concluded that the multi-bank holding
company  concept was not in the best long range  interest  of its  shareholders,
customers or employees.  The board directed  management to plan for a transition
to a single bank charter, to be implemented by year-end 2006,  contingent on all
required legal and regulatory approvals.

         The Corporation  anticipates  that, when  implemented,  the single bank
charter  model  will  result  in  significant  financial  savings  and  improved
operational  effectiveness.  The Corporation  also  anticipates that this change
will improve customer services by substantially  increasing the number of branch
banking  locations  available to all of the Banks'  customers,  by improving the
nature  and  quality of  deposit  and loan  products,  and by  accelerating  the
approval process for most conforming loans.

46

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

         Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse  changes in market  prices
and rates. The Corporation's  market risk arises  principally from interest rate
risk  inherent in its  lending,  deposit and  borrowing  activities.  Management
actively  monitors and manages its  interest  rate risk  exposure.  Although the
Corporation  manages other risks,  such as credit  quality and liquidity risk in
the normal course of business, management considers interest rate risk to be its
most  significant  market risk and this risk could  potentially have the largest
material  effect  on  the  Corporation's  financial  condition  and  results  of
operations.  Other types of market risks such as foreign currency  exchange risk
and commodity price risk do not arise in the normal course of community  banking
activities.

         Achieving  consistent growth in net interest income is the primary goal
of the  Corporation's  asset/liability  function.  The  Corporation  attempts to
control the mix and maturities of assets and  liabilities to achieve  consistent
growth in net interest  income despite  changes in market  interest  rates.  The
Corporation seeks to accomplish this goal while maintaining  adequate  liquidity
and capital. The Corporation's  asset/liability mix is sufficiently  balanced so
that the effect of interest rates moving in either  direction is not expected to
be material over time.

         The Corporation's  Asset/Liability Committee uses a simulation model to
assist in  achieving  consistent  growth in net interest  income while  managing
interest rate risk.  The model takes into account  interest rate changes as well
as changes in the mix and volume of assets and liabilities.  The model simulates
the  Corporation's  balance sheet and income  statement under several  different
rate  scenarios.  The model's inputs (such as interest rates and levels of loans
and  deposits)  are  updated  on a  quarterly  basis in order to obtain the most
accurate  forecast   possible.   The  forecast   presents   information  over  a
twelve-month  period. It reports a base case in which interest rates remain flat
and  variations  that occur when rates  increase and  decrease  100, 200 and 300
basis points. According to the model, as of December 31, 2005 the Corporation is
positioned so that net interest  income would  increase  $193,000 and net income
would  increase  $117,000 if interest rates were to rise 100 basis points in the
next twelve months.  Conversely,  net interest income would decline $193,000 and
net income would  decline  $117,000 if interest  rates were to decline 100 basis
points. Computation of prospective effects of hypothetical interest rate changes
are based on numerous assumptions,  including relative levels of market interest
rates and loan prepayment, and should not be relied upon as indicative of actual
results.   Further,   the  computations  do  not  contemplate  any  actions  the
Corporation  could  undertake  in response  to changes in interest  rates or the
effects of responses by others, including borrowers and depositors.

         The following table summarizes the Corporation's  interest  sensitivity
position as of December 31, 2005.

47

Interest Sensitivity Analysis

(1)  Loans held for sale are reflected in the period of expected sale.
(2)  Excludes nonaccrual loans totaling $11,651,000.
(3)  RSA- rate sensitive assets; RSL- rate sensitive liabilities

         The above table  reflects the balances of interest  earning  assets and
interest  bearing  liabilities  at the  earlier of their  repricing  or maturity
dates. Amortizing fixed rate loans are reflected at the scheduled maturity date.
Variable rate amortizing  loans are reflected at the earliest date at which they
may be repriced  contractually.  Deposits in other banks and debt securities are
reflected at each instrument's  ultimate maturity date.  Overnight federal funds
sold are reflected as instantly  repriceable.  Interest bearing liabilities with
no  contractual  maturity,   such  as  savings  deposits  and  interest  bearing
transaction  accounts,  are reflected in the earliest repricing period possible.
Fixed rate time deposits are reflected at their maturity dates.

         The static interest rate sensitivity gap position, while not a complete
measure  of  interest  sensitivity,  is also  reviewed  periodically  to provide
insights  related to the static  repricing  structure  of the Banks'  assets and
liabilities.  At December 31, 2005 on a cumulative  basis through twelve months,
rate sensitive  liabilities exceeded rate sensitive assets by $107,243,000.  The
liability  sensitive  position is largely due to the assumption  that the Banks'
$161,575,000 in interest bearing  transaction  accounts,  savings accounts,  and
money market accounts will reprice within a year. This assumption may or may not
be valid,  since these  accounts vary greatly in their  sensitivity  to interest
rate changes in the market.  Rising  interest  rates would be likely to diminish
net interest income of banks in a liability sensitive position if the assumption
is valid and in the absence of factors which would be likely to occur.

48

The  Market  Risk  table,  which  follows  this  discussion,  shows the
Corporation's  financial  instruments  that are sensitive to changes in interest
rates.  The  Corporation  uses certain  assumptions  to estimate fair values and
expected maturities.  For assets, expected maturities are based upon contractual
maturity, projected repayments, and prepayment of principal and potential calls.
For core deposits without contractual maturity (i.e., interest checking, savings
and money market  accounts),  the table  presents  principal cash flows based on
management's judgment concerning their most likely runoff. The actual maturities
and runoff  could vary  substantially  if future  prepayments,  runoff and calls
differ from the Corporation's historical experience.

49

50

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

COMMUNITY BANKSHARES, INC.

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

51

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Shareholders and
   Board of Directors of
   Community Bankshares, Inc.

We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of  Community
Bankshares,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  as of December  31, 2005 and 2004,  and the
related consolidated  statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the years in the  three-year  period  ended  December 31,
2005. These  consolidated  financial  statements are the  responsibility  of the
Corporation's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and  perform  the  audit  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the
consolidated  financial statements are free of material  misstatement.  An audit
includes  examining,  on a test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures in the  consolidated  financial  statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in  all  material   respects,   the  financial  position  of  Community
Bankshares, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended  December 31, 2005,  in  conformity  with U.S.  generally  accepted
accounting principles.

Columbia, South Carolina                        s/ J. W. Hunt and Company LLP
February 27, 2006

52

COMMUNITY BANKSHARES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

53

COMMUNITY BANKSHARES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

54

COMMUNITY BANKSHARES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

55

COMMUNITY BANKSHARES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

56

COMMUNITY BANKSHARES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 - ORGANIZATION

Community Bankshares, Inc. (the "Corporation"),  was organized under the laws of
the State of South  Carolina  and was  chartered  as a business  corporation  on
November  30,  1992.  Pursuant to the  provisions  of the Federal  Bank  Holding
Company  Act,  an  application  was  filed  with and  approved  by the  Board of
Governors of the Federal  Reserve  System for the  Corporation  to become a bank
holding company by the acquisition of Orangeburg National Bank (ONB).

In June 1996,  Sumter National Bank (SNB), and in July 1998,  Florence  National
Bank  (FNB),  commenced  operations  in Sumter  and  Florence,  South  Carolina,
respectively,  following  approval by the  Comptroller of the Currency and other
regulators.  Upon completion of their organization,  the common stock of SNB and
FNB was acquired by the Corporation.

In November  2001,  the  Corporation  acquired  all the common stock of Resource
Mortgage, Inc., a Columbia, South Carolina based mortgage brokerage company. The
Corporation issued 95,454 shares of its common stock in exchange for 100% of the
common stock of Resource  Mortgage,  Inc. The subsidiary  was renamed  Community
Resource Mortgage, Inc. (CRM).

In July 2002,  Ridgeway  Bancshares,  Inc., the holding  company for the Bank of
Ridgeway (BOR),  merged into the Corporation.  The Corporation  issued 1,000,000
shares of its common stock and paid  $4,000,000 cash in exchange for 100% of the
common stock of Ridgeway  Bancshares,  Inc. The  transaction  was consummated on
July 1, 2002.

ONB, SNB, FNB and BOR (the "Banks") and CRM operate as wholly-owned subsidiaries
of the Corporation with separate Boards of Directors and operating  policies and
they  provide a variety of  financial  services to  individuals  and  businesses
throughout South Carolina.  The primary deposit  products are checking,  savings
and term  certificate  accounts.  The primary  lending  products  are  consumer,
commercial and mortgage loans.

NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated  financial  statements  include the
accounts of the Corporation and its subsidiaries.  All significant  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

                                       57

USE OF  ESTIMATES  The  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America  requires  management to make estimates and assumptions  that affect the
reported  amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet and
the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses  during the  reporting  period.
Actual results could differ from those  estimates.  Material  estimates that are
particularly  susceptible to  significant  change in the near term relate to the
determination of the allowance for loan losses.

SIGNIFICANT  GROUP  CONCENTRATIONS  OF  CREDIT  RISK  Most of the  Corporation's
activities are with customers  located within South  Carolina.  Note 4 discusses
the types of securities the Corporation purchases. Note 6 discusses the types of
lending in which the Corporation engages.  The Banks grant commercial,  consumer
and mortgage loans to customers  throughout  South Carolina.  Although the Banks
have  diversified  loan  portfolios,  a  substantial  portion of their  debtors'
ability to honor their  contracts  is  dependent  upon the  economies of various
South Carolina  communities.  CRM generally  originates and sells loans into the
secondary  market;  but it sometimes  maintains loans for its own portfolio on a
limited   basis.   The  Company  does  not  engage  in   originating,   holding,
guaranteeing,  servicing  or  investing  in loans  where  the  terms of the loan
product  give rise to a  concentration  of  credit  risk as that term is used in
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 107,  "Disclosures  about Fair
Values of Financial Instruments."

CASH AND CASH  EQUIVALENTS For purposes of the  consolidated  statements of cash
flows,  the Corporation  has defined cash and cash  equivalents as those amounts
included in the balance sheets under the caption,  "Cash and due from banks" and
"Federal funds sold," all of which mature within ninety days.

INTEREST-BEARING  DEPOSITS WITH OTHER BANKS Interest-bearing deposits with other
banks generally mature within one year and are carried at cost.

SECURITIES  Securities  that management has both the ability and positive intent
to hold to maturity  are  classified  as  held-to-maturity  and carried at cost,
adjusted for  amortization  of premium and accretion of discounts  using methods
approximating  the interest  method.  The Corporation  has decided  generally to
avoid acquiring further held-to-maturity securities in the near term. Securities
that may be sold prior to maturity for asset/liability  management purposes,  or
that may be sold in response to changes in interest rates, changes in prepayment
risk, increase in regulatory  capital, or other similar factors,  are classified
as available-for-sale and are carried at estimated fair value.  Unrealized gains
and losses on  securities  available-for-sale  are  excluded  from  earnings and
reported  in  other  comprehensive  income.  Gains  and  losses  on the  sale of
securities  available-for-sale are recorded on the trade date and are determined
using  the  specific  identification  method.  Declines  in the  fair  value  of
held-to-maturity  and  available-for-sale  securities  below their cost that are
deemed to be other-than-temporary are reflected in earnings as realized losses.

Interest and dividends on securities, including the amortization of premiums and
the  accretion  of  discounts,   are  reported  in  interest  and  dividends  on
securities.

No securities are being held for short-term resale;  therefore,  the Corporation
does not currently use a trading account classification.

LOANS  HELD FOR SALE The  Corporation  originates  loans  held for sale to other
financial institutions under commitments or other arrangements in place prior to
loan  origination.  These  loans  are  sold on a  non-recourse  basis.  However,

58

standard contract  warranties and  representations  apply to these sales and the
Corporation may from time to time be required to indemnify investors under those
provisions.  As of December 31, 2005, the Corporation maintained an allowance of
$368,000 for this off-balance-sheet  exposure. Loans originated and intended for
sale are  residential  mortgage  loans and are  carried  at the lower of cost or
estimated fair value in the aggregate.  Gains and losses, if any, on the sale of
such loans are determined using the specific identification method. All fees and
other income from these  activities are recognized in income when loan sales are
completed.

LOANS  The  Corporation  grants  mortgage,  commercial  and  consumer  loans  to
customers.  The ability of the Corporation's debtors to honor their contracts is
dependent  upon the  general  economic  conditions  in its market  areas.  Loans
receivable  that  management  has  the  intent  and  ability  to  hold  for  the
foreseeable  future or until  maturity  or  pay-off  generally  are  carried  at
principal amounts  outstanding,  increased or reduced by deferred net loan costs
or fees and any unamortized  purchase premiums or discounts.  Interest income on
loans is recognized  using the interest method based upon the principal  amounts
outstanding.  Loan  origination  and  commitment  fees and  certain  direct loan
origination costs (principally  salaries and employee benefits) are deferred and
amortized as an adjustment of the related loan's yield. Generally, these amounts
are amortized over the contractual life of the related loans or commitments.

The accrual of interest on mortgage and commercial  loans is discontinued at the
time the loan is 90 days delinquent unless the credit is well collateralized and
in process of collection.  Residential real estate loans are typically placed on
nonaccrual  at the  time the loan is 120  days  delinquent.  Unsecured  personal
credit lines and certain  consumer  finance loans are  typically  charged off no
later than the time the loan is 180 days delinquent.

Other consumer loans are typically  charged off at the time the loan is 120 days
delinquent.  Generally,  loans are placed on  nonaccrual  or  charged  off at an
earlier date if collection of principal or interest is considered doubtful.

All interest  accrued but not  collected for loans that are placed on nonaccrual
or charged off is reversed against interest income.  The interest on these loans
is  accounted  for on the cash basis or cost  recovery  method,  until the loans
qualify for return to accrual status.  Loans are returned to accrual status when
all the principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current and
future payments are reasonably assured.

ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES The allowance for loan losses is established through a
provision for loan losses  charged  against  earnings as losses are estimated to
have occurred.  Loan losses are charged  against the allowance  when  management
believes  the  uncollectibility  of a  loan  balance  is  confirmed.  Subsequent
recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.

The allowance for loan losses is evaluated on a regular basis by management  and
is based upon management's periodic review of the collectibility of the loans in
light of  historical  experience,  the nature and volume of the loan  portfolio,
adverse  situations that may affect the borrowers'  ability to repay,  estimated
value of any underlying  collateral,  and prevailing economic  conditions.  This
evaluation  is  inherently   subjective  as  it  requires   estimates  that  are

59

susceptible  to  significant  revision as more  information  becomes  available.
Management  of each Bank  reviews its  allowance  for loan losses in three broad
categories: commercial and industrial, loans secured by real estate and loans to
individuals,  and  assigns  an  estimated  percentage  factor  to  each  in  the
determination of the estimate of the allowance for loan losses. Where the Banks'
internal and external loan review  programs  identify  loans that are subject to
specific weaknesses, such loans are reviewed for a specific loan loss allowance.

A loan is considered  impaired when, based on current information and events, it
is  probable  that the  Corporation  will be unable  to  collect  the  scheduled
payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of
the loan agreement.  Factors considered by management in determining  impairment
include  payment  status,  collateral  value,  and the probability of collecting
scheduled  principal  and  interest  payments  when due.  Loans that  experience
insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified
as  impaired.  Management  determines  the  significance  of payment  delays and
payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the
known circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower,  including the length
of the delay,  the reasons for the delay,  the borrower's  prior payment record,
and the amount of the shortfall in relation to the principal and interest  owed.
Impairment is measured on a loan-by-loan  basis for commercial and  construction
loans by either the present  value of expected  future cash flows  discounted at
the loan's effective  interest rate, the loan's  obtainable market price, or the
fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.

Large groups of smaller balance homogeneous loans are collectively evaluated for
impairment. Accordingly, the Corporation does not separately identify individual
consumer and residential loans for impairment disclosures.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 133,  Accounting for
Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities,  as amended,  requires that all
derivatives  be  recognized  as assets or  liabilities  in the balance sheet and
measured at fair value.

In April,  2003, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board issued Statement No.
149,  "Amendment  of  Statement  133  on  Derivative   Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities."  Among  other  requirements,  this  Statement  provides  that  loan
commitment contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003 that relate to
the  origination of mortgage loans that will be held for sale shall be accounted
for  as  derivative  instruments  by the  issuer  of the  loan  commitment.  The
Corporation issues mortgage loan rate lock commitments to potential borrowers to
facilitate its  origination of home mortgage loans that are intended to be sold.
Between the time that the  Corporation  issues its commitments and the time that
the loans close and are sold,  the  Corporation is subject to variability in the
selling  prices related to those  commitments  due to changes in market rates of
interest.  However,  the Corporation offsets this variability through the use of
so-called "forward sales contracts" to investors in the secondary market.  Under
these  arrangements,  an  investor  agrees to  purchase  the  closed  loans at a
predetermined  price.  The Corporation  generally enters into such forward sales
contracts at the same time that rate lock  commitments  are issued.  The forward
sales  contracts  provide both specific  underwriting  guidelines and definitive
price quotes.  These arrangements  effectively insulate the Corporation from the
effects of changes in interest  rates during the time that the  commitments  are
outstanding,  but the  arrangements do not qualify,  and are not designated,  as
fair value hedges. In keeping with SEC Staff Accounting  Bulletin 105, no income
is  recognized  as of the original  commitment  date on either the interest rate
lock  commitments or the forward sales contracts.  Subsequently,  changes in the
fair values of the  instruments  are  measured  as of the end of each  reporting
period  and  the  changes  in the  fair  values  represent  the  amounts  of the
derivative  assets and liabilities.  In addition,  the changes in fair values of
derivatives  are  recorded in the  statement of income in net gains or losses on
loans held for sale. Because the Corporation has effectively matched its forward
sales contracts to investors and rate lock  commitments to potential  borrowers,
no net  gains or  losses  due to  changes  in market  interest  rates  have been
recorded in the statement of income for 2005, 2004 or 2003.

60

Derivative financial  instruments are written in amounts referred to as notional
amounts.  Notional  amounts  provide  only the  basis for  calculating  payments
between  counterparties  and do not  represent  amounts to be exchanged  between
parties or a measure of financial  risk.  The table below  presents the notional
principal  amounts of rate lock  commitments  and forward sales  contracts as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004,  and the  estimated  fair values of those  financial
instruments included in other assets and liabilities in the balance sheets as of
those dates.

STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION  Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards ("SFAS")
No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation,  as amended,  encourages all
entities to adopt a fair value based method of  accounting  for  employee  stock
compensation  plans,  whereby  compensation  cost is  measured at the grant date
based on the fair value of the award and is recognized  over the service period,
which is  usually  the  vesting  period.  However,  it also  allows an entity to
continue to measure  compensation cost for those plans using the intrinsic value
based method of accounting  prescribed by  Accounting  Principles  Board ("APB")
Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," whereby compensation
cost is the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the stock at the grant
date (or other measurement date) over the amount an employee must pay to acquire
the stock. Stock options issued under the Corporation's  stock option plans have
no  intrinsic  value  at the  grant  date,  and  under  APB  Opinion  No.  25 no
compensation  cost is recognized for them. For 2005, the Corporation  elected to
continue with the accounting methodology in APB Opinion No. 25 and, as a result,
has  provided  pro forma  disclosures  of net income and  earnings per share and
other  disclosures,  as if the fair value based  method of  accounting  had been
applied.  However,  as required by revisions to SFAS No. 123 and  Securities and
Exchange Commission rules, the Corporation adopted the accounting methodology of
SFAS No. 123(R) effective January 1, 2006. See "Accounting Changes - Share-Based
Payment."

Had compensation cost for the  Corporation's  stock option plans been determined
based on the fair value at the grant dates for awards under the plans consistent
with the method  prescribed  by SFAS No. 123, the  Corporation's  net income and
earnings per share would have been adjusted to the pro forma  amounts  indicated
below:

61

FORECLOSED ASSETS Assets (primarily real estate and vehicles)  acquired through,
or in lieu of, loan foreclosure are held for sale and are initially  recorded at
fair  value,  less  estimated  costs  to  sell,  at  the  date  of  foreclosure,
establishing a new cost basis.  Loan losses arising from the acquisition of such
property  are  charged  against the  allowance  for loan losses as of that date.
Subsequent to foreclosure,  valuations are periodically  performed by management
and the  assets are  carried  at the lower of the new cost basis or fair  value,
less estimated costs to sell.  Revenues and expenses from operations and changes
in any  subsequent  valuation  allowance are included in net  foreclosed  assets
costs and  expenses.  The carrying  value of foreclosed  assets  included in the
balance  sheets was  $185,000  and  $229,000 as of  December  31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

PREMISES  AND  EQUIPMENT  Premises  and  equipment  are  stated  at  cost,  less
accumulated  depreciation  computed principally on the straight-line method over
the  estimated  useful lives of the assets.  Useful lives of assets are outlined
below:

Buildings ................................................   32 - 40 years
      Building components ......................................    5 - 30 years
      Vault doors, safe deposit boxes, night depository, etc. ..   32 - 40 years
      Furniture, fixtures and equipment ........................    5 - 25 years

Useful lives for leasehold  improvements  held under operating lease  agreements
are estimated at the lesser of the assets'  estimated  useful lives as set forth
in the table  above or the lease  term,  including  certain  renewals  which are
deemed probable at lease inception.

INCOME  TAXES  Deferred  income tax  assets and  liabilities  are  reflected  at
currently  enacted  income  tax  rates  applicable  to the  period  in which the
deferred tax assets or  liabilities  are expected to be realized or settled.  As
changes in tax laws or rates are enacted,  deferred  tax assets and  liabilities
are adjusted through the provision for income taxes.

OFF-BALANCE-SHEET CREDIT RELATED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS In the ordinary course of
business the Banks enter into  commitments  to extend  credit and grant  standby

62

letters of credit. Such off-balance-sheet  financial instruments are recorded in
the consolidated financial statements when they are funded.

SEGMENTS Community Bankshares, Inc. through its banking subsidiaries,  ONB, SNB,
FNB, BOR and its mortgage  subsidiary,  CRM, provides a broad range of financial
services to individuals and businesses in South Carolina. These services include
demand,  time, and savings  deposits;  lending  services;  ATM  processing;  and
similar financial services.  While the Corporation's decision makers monitor the
revenue streams of the various financial  products and services,  operations are
managed and  financial  performance  is  evaluated  on a  corporate-wide  basis.
Accordingly,  the  subsidiary  operations  are not  considered  by management to
comprise more than one reportable operating segment.

COMPREHENSIVE  INCOME  Accounting  principles  generally require that recognized
revenue,  expenses,  gains and losses be included in net income. Certain changes
in assets and  liabilities,  such as  unrealized  gains and losses on securities
available-for-sale,  are reported as a separate  component of the equity section
of the balance  sheet.  Such items,  along with net income,  are  components  of
comprehensive  income.  Currently,  the  Corporation's  only components of other
comprehensive   income  (loss)  are  unrealized  gains  (losses)  on  securities
available-for-sale.

TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Transfers of financial assets are accounted for as
sales  when  control  over  the  assets  has  been  surrendered.   Control  over
transferred  assets is deemed to be  surrendered  when (1) the assets  have been
isolated from the  Corporation,  (2) the  transferee  obtains the right (free of
conditions  that constrain it from taking  advantage of that right) to pledge or
exchange  the  transferred  assets,  and (3) the  Corporation  does not maintain
effective control over the transferred assets through an agreement to repurchase
them before their maturity.

ACCOUNTING CHANGES

Share-Based  Payment  Management adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (revised
2004) ("SFAS No. 123(R)"),  "Share-Based Payment," effective January 1, 2006, as
required under the  provisions of that  Statement and applicable  Securities and
Exchange  ("SEC")  Commission  Rules.  That Statement  requires that stock-based
compensation  awards be  measured  and  reported at their grant date fair value,
with their costs recognized generally over the vesting period of the awards. The
fair value of such  stock-based  awards is affected by the Company's stock price
and by assumptions  regarding a number of complex and  subjective  variables and
the related tax impact. In addition, in March, 2005, the Securities and Exchange
Commission  issued its Staff  Accounting  Bulletin No. 107 which  expresses  the
views of the SEC staff  regarding  the  interaction  between  SFAS No 123(R) and
certain SEC rules and regulations as well as the SEC staff's views regarding the
valuation  of  share-based  payment  arrangements  for  public  companies.   The
provisions of, and guidance  provided in, SAB No. 107 will be incorporated  into
the Company's implementation of SFAS No. 123(R).

The Company will recognize the  compensation  cost for  stock-based  awards on a
straight-line  basis over the requisite  service period for the entire award and
at  present  intends  to use  the  modified  prospective  transition  method  of
accounting  for  previously  issued  stock  options.   Accordingly,  only  costs
associated  with the unvested  portions of prior awards and awards granted after
December 31, 2005 will affect the  Company's  financial  position and results of
operations. All of the options previously granted by the Corporation were vested
as of December 31, 2005;  therefore,  no compensation  expense is expected to be
recognized in the future for previously awarded stock options.

63

SFAS  123(R)  also  amends  SFAS No. 95 to  require  that  excess  tax  benefits
resulting  from those  transactions  be reported as financing  cash flows rather
than as a reduction of taxes paid.

Management  expects that  adoption of SFAS No.  123(R) will affect the Company's
future net income and net income per share  calculations in much the same manner
as previously  reported in the pro forma  disclosures  as provided above in this
Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

Other-Than-Temporarily  Impaired  Investments On November 3, 2005, the Financial
Accounting  Standards Board issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") FAS 115-1 and FAS
124-1 which reverts to  other-than-temporary  impairment  ("OTTI") guidance that
existed prior to the effective date of Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue
03-1. However, the new FSP retains the disclosure requirements of 03-1 that have
been in effect since the end of 2003.

FSP FAS 115-1 and 124-1 requires the application of a three-step model to assess
and account for investments  that may be impaired.  If an investment is found to
be impaired (its fair value is less than the recorded  cost),  the extent of the
impairment is assessed using the guidance  contained in Paragraph 16 of SFAS No.
115,  SEC  Staff  Accounting  Bulletin  Topic  5.M,  Paragraph  6 of  Accounting
Principles Board Opinion 18 and EITF Issue 99-20. If the assessment results in a
conclusion that the impairment is other-than-temporary, an impairment loss equal
to the amount  that the  investment's  recorded  cost  exceeds its fair value is
recognized  in earnings and the  investment's  carrying  value is reduced to its
fair value.  That fair value becomes the  investment's  new "cost" basis and any
subsequent recoveries of fair value are not recognized.  After recognition of an
impairment loss, income recognition is based on the investment's  estimated cash
flows rather than its contractual  cash flows, and any discount or premium would
be amortized over the remaining life of the security.

The  provisions  of this FSP were adopted as of December 31, 2005, as permitted,
and had no effect on the  financial  position  or results of  operations  of the
Company.

Accounting  Changes and Error  Corrections In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No.
154,  "Accounting  Changes and Error Corrections." This Statement applies to all
voluntary  changes  in  accounting  principles  and to  changes  required  by an
accounting  pronouncement  when  the  pronouncement  does not  include  specific
transition  provisions.  The  Statement  requires  that  changes  in  accounting
principles be applied  retrospectively  unless it is  impracticable to determine
either the  period-specific  effects or the cumulative  effect of the change. In
those  cases,  retrospective  application  of the new  accounting  principle  is
required  to be applied to the  balances  of assets  and  liabilities  as of the
beginning  of  the  earliest  period  for  which  retrospective  application  is
practicable  with a  corresponding  adjustment  to retained  earnings  (or other
appropriate equity account) at that time. If application of the new principle is
impracticable for all prior periods, then it is to be adopted prospectively from
the earliest date  practicable.  Only the direct effects of the change are to be
applied retrospectively; indirect changes are accounted for in the period of the
change.

This  Statement  also  requires that certain  changes in  accounting  methods be
accounted  for as a change  in  accounting  estimate  effected  by a  change  in
accounting principle with retrospective application applied.

This  Statement  carries  forward the  guidance of APB Opinion 20 with regard to
corrections  of  accounting  errors.   Restatement  of  prior  period  financial

64

statements  is required in these cases,  with  adjustments  made to the carrying
amounts  of  assets  and  liabilities,   with  an  offsetting   capital  account
adjustment, as of the beginning of the first period presented.

This  Statement was adopted  effective  January 1, 2006 and had no effect on the
Company's  financial  position or results of operations for any period presented
in the consolidated financial statements.

ADVERTISING COSTS The cost of advertising is expensed as incurred.

OTHER  Certain  amounts  previously  reported  in  the  consolidated   financial
statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year's  presentation
and disclosure requirements. These reclassifications had no effect on previously
reported net income or retained earnings.

NOTE 3 - CASH AND DUE FROM BANKS

The Banks are required to maintain  average  reserve  balances  with the Federal
Reserve or in available cash. The average daily reserve balance  requirements at
December  31,  2005 and  2004  were  approximately  $3,942,000  and  $3,893,000,
respectively.  At  December  31, 2005 the  Corporation  had cash  balances  with
unrelated correspondent banks, including bankers' banks and the Federal Reserve,
totaling approximately $14,142,000, of which $1,021,000 was fully insured by the
FDIC.

NOTE 4 - SECURITIES

Securities consist of the following:

The  amortized  cost and fair value of debt  securities  at December 31, 2005 by
contractual  maturity are detailed below.  Expected  maturities will differ from
contractual  maturities  because  borrowers may have the right to call or prepay
obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.

65

The following  tables provide  information  about the  Corporation's  securities
holdings which were maintained in an unrealized loss position as of December 31,
2005 and 2004:

At December 31, 2005,  the  Corporation  held 20 securities  that had been in an
unrealized loss position for less than 12 months and 46 securities that had been
in an unrealized  loss position for 12 months or more. At December 31, 2004, the
Corporation  held 28 securities that had been in an unrealized loss position for
less  than 12  months  and 16  securities  that had been in an  unrealized  loss
position  for 12 months  or more.  Unrealized  losses  reflected  in this  table
generally are the result of interest  rate changes that have occurred  since the
securities  were  purchased.  The Corporation has the intent and ability to hold

66

these  securities  until  maturity  and no  loss  is  expected  on any of  these
securities if they are held until their  maturities.  Accordingly,  these losses
are not considered other-than-temporary.

At December 31, 2005 and 2004,  investment  securities  with a carrying value of
$27,509,000  and  $25,255,000,  respectively,  were  pledged  to  secure  public
deposits, repurchase agreements and for other purposes required and permitted by
law.

For the years ended  December 31, 2005,  2004 and 2003,  proceeds  from sales of
securities   available-for-sale   amounted  to  $4,412,000,   $13,676,000,   and
$2,068,000, respectively. Gross realized gains totaled $0, $107,000 and $73,000,
respectively.   Gross  realized  losses  were  $10,000,  $31,000  and  $325,000,
respectively.  The tax benefit (provision)  applicable to the net realized gains
and losses amounted to $4,000, $(26,000) and $91,000, respectively.

NOTE 5 - OTHER INVESTMENTS

Other  investments  consist of restricted  stocks of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond,  the Federal  Home Loan Bank of Atlanta,  and  correspondent  bankers'
banks  which  are  carried  at cost.  Management  periodically  evaluates  these
investments for impairment, with any appropriate downward adjustments being made
when necessary.

NOTE 6 - LOANS

The following is a summary of loans by category:

December 31,
                                                             ------------
                                                         2005             2004
                                                         ----             ----
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

Commercial, financial and agricultural .........      $  95,023       $  96,275
Real estate- construction ......................         37,923          29,968
Real estate - mortgage .........................        243,837         230,986
Consumer installment ...........................         37,201          36,420
                                                      ---------       ---------
        Total ..................................        413,984         393,649
Allowance for loan losses ......................        (11,641)         (4,347)
                                                      ---------       ---------
        Loans - net ............................      $ 402,343       $ 389,302
                                                      =========       =========

Net deferred  loan (fees) and costs of ($25,000)  and $31,000 were  allocated to
the various  loan  categories  as of December  31, 2005 and 2004,  respectively.
Overdrawn demand deposits  totaling $382,000 and $379,000 have been reclassified
as loan balances at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Gross  proceeds  from  sales  of  mortgage  loans  originated  for  resale  were
approximately $213,195,000,  $174,074,000,  and $309,914,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2005,  2004, and 2003,  respectively.  Income from this activity is
recognized as mortgage brokerage income.

67

Loans outstanding to directors,  executive officers, principal holders of equity
securities,  or to any of their  associates  totaled  $7,071,000 at December 31,
2005 and  $6,795,000  at December 31, 2004. A total of  $5,246,000 in loans were
made or added,  while a total of $4,970,000 were repaid or deducted during 2005.
Related party loans are made on substantially the same terms, including interest
rates  and  collateral,   as  those   prevailing  at  the  time  for  comparable
transactions  with unrelated persons and do not involve more than normal risk of
collectibility.  Changes in the  composition  of the board of  directors  or the
group  comprising  executive  officers also result in additions to or deductions
from loans outstanding to directors,  executive officers or principal holders of
equity securities.

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004,  there were no significant  concentrations  of
credit risk in any single  borrower or groups of  borrowers.  The  Corporation's
loan  portfolio  consists  primarily of extensions  of credit to businesses  and
individuals in its local market areas in Orangeburg, Sumter, Florence, Richland,
Fairfield and Anderson  counties of South Carolina.  The Banks and CRM regularly
monitor  various  segments  of  their  credit  portfolios  to  assess  potential
concentration risks and to obtain collateral when considered necessary.

Changes in the allowance for loan losses were as follows:

Years Ended December 31,
                                                   ------------------------
                                                 2005         2004         2003
                                                 ----         ----         ----
                                                     (Dollars in thousands)

Balance at January 1 .......................   $  4,347    $  4,206    $  3,573
Transfer of allowance for off-balance-sheet
    contingencies to other liabilities .....       (305)          -           -
Provision charged to expense ...............      9,637       5,102       1,119
Recoveries .................................        207         119         174
Charge-offs ................................     (2,245)     (5,080)       (660)
                                               --------    --------    --------
Balance at December 31 .....................   $ 11,641    $  4,347    $  4,206
                                               ========    ========    ========

The following is summary information pertaining to impaired loans:

No additional funds are irrevocably  committed to be advanced in connection with
impaired loans.

Nonaccrual and past due loans at December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

68

December 31,
                                                              ------------
                                                           2005           2004
                                                           ----           ----
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

Nonaccrual loans ...............................         $11,651         $ 4,941
Accruing 90 days or more past due ..............             729             137
                                                         -------         -------
             Total .............................         $12,380         $ 5,078
                                                         =======         =======

Gross interest income that would have been recorded for the years ended December
31, 2005,  2004, and 2003 if nonaccrual  loans had been performing in accordance
with their original terms was  approximately  $448,000,  $63,000,  and $117,000,
respectively.  No cash basis  income was  recognized  on such loans during 2005,
2004 and 2003.

NOTE 7 - PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT; OPERATING LEASES

Premises and equipment at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consist of the following:

                                                               December 31,
                                                               ------------
                                                           2005           2004
                                                           ----           ----
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)

Land .............................................        $ 1,952        $ 2,258
Buildings and components .........................          3,884          3,884
Furniture, fixtures and equipment ................          6,633          6,341
Construction in process - gross ..................          2,432             67
                                                          -------        -------
        Total ....................................         14,901         12,550
Less, accumulated depreciation ...................          5,489          4,811
                                                          -------        -------
        Premises and equipment - net .............        $ 9,412        $ 7,739
                                                          =======        =======

Depreciation expense was approximately $937,000, $926,000, and $793,000, for the
years ended December 31, 2005,  2004, and 2003,  respectively.  During 2005, the
Corporation capitalized interest of $12,000 to construction in progress.

As  of  December  31,  2005  future  minimum  rent  commitments   under  various
non-cancelable operating leases are as follows:

69

Year                               Amount
                               ----                               ------
                                        (Dollars in thousands)

                                2006                               $  360
                                2007                                  344
                                2008                                  196
                                2009                                  179
                                2010                                   98
                          Thereafter                                1,789
                                                                   ------
                                 Total                             $2,966
                                                                   ======

Total rent expense for the years ended  December 31,  2005,  2004,  and 2003 was
$413,000,  $308,000,  and $205,000,  respectively.  Some leases  provide for the
payment of executory costs and contain options to renew; lease payments for such
renewal periods are generally higher than during the original lease term.

NOTE 8 - INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Changes in the  carrying  amounts of goodwill  for the years ended  December 31,
2005 and 2004 are as follows:

                                                        Years Ended December 31,
                                                        ------------------------
                                                           2005           2004
                                                           ----           ----
                                                          (Dollars in thousands)

Balance, beginning of year .......................         $4,321         $4,321
Goodwill acquired during the year ................              -              -
Impairment losses ................................              -              -
                                                           ------         ------
  Balance, end of year ...........................         $4,321         $4,321
                                                           ======         ======

Goodwill  is  tested  for  impairment  annually.  As of  December  31,  2005  no
impairment has been determined.

As part of the  valuation of Ridgeway  Bancshares,  Inc. that was conducted by a
third party firm in  conjunction  with its  acquisition  by the Company,  a core
deposit  intangible  was  computed.   Such  amortizable  intangible  assets  are
evaluated  annually to determine whether any revisions of their estimated useful
lives are  warranted.  For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and 2003,
no such revisions have resulted.

The  following  tables  present  the  gross  carrying  amounts  and  accumulated
amortization for the Corporation's  amortizable intangible assets as of December
31,  2005 and 2004,  and the  estimated  amounts of  amortization  expense to be
recognized for each of the five succeeding fiscal years, as of December 31, 2005
and 2004. Such assets are being amortized on a straight-line  basis over fifteen
years,  a period which  represents  the expected  runoff  period of the deposits
acquired.

70

Estimated  amounts of amortization  expense to be recognized in each of the next
five succeeding years are:

December 31,
                                              ------------
                                       2005                  2004
                                       ----                  ----
               Year                     (Dollars in thousands)
               ----

               2005                    $  -                $ 246
               2006                     246                  246
               2007                     246                  246
               2008                     246                  246
               2009                     246                  246
               2010                     246                   NA

NOTE 9 - DEPOSITS

At December 31, 2005, the scheduled  maturities of  certificates  of deposit and
other time deposits are as follows:

Year                                      Amount
                     ----                                      ------
                                (Dollars in thousands)

                      2006                                    $ 192,194
                      2007                                       33,441
                      2008                                        6,666
                      2009                                        2,210
                      2010                                          970
                   Thereafter                                         7
                                                              ---------
                       Total                                  $ 235,488
                                                              =========

Deposits of directors and officers and their related business  interests totaled
approximately   $8,629,000  and  $4,739,000  at  December  31,  2005  and  2004,
respectively.

NOTE 10 - SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

The  Corporation's  short-term  borrowings  generally  consist of federal  funds
purchased and  securities  sold under  agreements to  repurchase.  Federal funds
purchased and  securities  sold under  agreements  with  customers to repurchase

71

generally mature within one to four days from the transaction  date.  Securities
sold under agreements to repurchase are reflected at the amount of cash received
in connection with the transaction.  The Corporation  monitors the fair value of
the  underlying  securities  on a daily  basis  and it is the  Banks'  policy to
maintain a collateral  value greater than the principal and accrued  interest of
the    transaction.    All   securities    underlying   these   agreements   are
institution-owned securities.

Short-term borrowings are summarized as follows:

December 31,
                                                                 ------------
                                                              2005        2004
                                                              ----        ----
                                                          (Dollars in thousands)

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase .........      $5,372      $4,979
Federal funds purchased ................................         421       1,683
Warehouse lines of credit ..............................       1,182           -
Other short-term debt ..................................       2,000           -
                                                              ------      ------
     Total .............................................      $8,975      $6,662
                                                              ======      ======

The following table summarizes  information  about short-term  borrowings during
each of the periods presented:

December 31,
                                                              ------------
                                                              2005        2004
                                                              ----        ----
                                                          (Dollars in thousands)

Balance outstanding at end of year .......................   $ 8,975    $ 6,662
Weighted average interest rate at end of the period ......      4.26%      1.54%
Interest expense .........................................   $   198    $   205
Maximum outstanding at any month end during the period ...   $ 8,975    $17,940
Average outstanding during the period ....................   $ 8,584    $10,309
Weighted average interest rate during the period .........      2.31%      1.99%

As of  December  31,  2005,  the Banks had unused  credit  availabilities  under
federal funds lines  established  with  unrelated  correspondent  banks totaling
$39,879,000.

NOTE 11 - LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt is summarized as follows:

                                       72

- -------
(1) Securities qualify as Tier 1 capital under the regulatory risk-based capital
guidelines, subject to certain limitations.

Collateral  for the Advances from Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta  consists of
blanket liens on the Banks' one-to-four  family first lien residential  mortgage
loans and the indebted  Banks' stock in the FHLB. Such collateral was carried in
the consolidated  balance sheet at approximately  $66,500,000 and $71,462,000 at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Under the blanket lien agreements,  the Banks  collectively  have the ability to
borrow additional funds  approximating  $28,406,000 from the FHLB as of December
31, 2005.  Any such  borrowings  would be subject to the FHLB's normal  approval
process and would be subject to interest  rates  established  by the FHLB at the
time of each such  transaction.  The FHLB may terminate the  availability at any
time.

On March 8, 2004, the  Corporation  sponsored the creation of a Delaware  trust,
SCB  Capital  Trust  I (the  "Trust"),  and  is the  sole  owner  of the  common
securities  issued by the Trust.  The Trust is a variable  interest entity under
FIN  46R,  but  is  not  subject  to  consolidation  by  the  Corporation  since
substantially  all risk of loss has been  transferred to other entities  through
the Trust's  March 10, 2004  issuance of  $10,000,000  in floating  rate capital
securities.  The  proceeds  of this  issuance,  and the amount of CBI's  capital
investment,  were used to acquire $10,310,000 principal amount of CBI's floating
rate junior subordinated deferrable interest debt securities  ("Debentures") due
April  7,  2034,  which  securities,  and  the  accrued  interest  thereon,  now
constitute the Trust's sole assets.  The interest rate  associated with the debt
securities, and the distribution rate on the common securities of the Trust, was
established initially at 3.91% and is adjustable quarterly at 3 month LIBOR plus
280 basis  points.  The index rate  (LIBOR) may not be lower than  1.11%.  As of
December 31, 2005, the interest rate associated with the debt was 6.95%. CBI may
defer interest payments on the Debentures for up to twenty consecutive quarters,
but not beyond the stated  maturity  date of the  Debentures.  In the event that
such interest payments are deferred by CBI, the Trust may defer distributions on
the common securities.  In such an event, CBI would be restricted in its ability
to pay  dividends on its common stock and perform under other  obligations  that
are not senior to the junior subordinated Debentures.

The  Debentures are redeemable at par at the option of CBI, in whole or in part,
on any interest  payment date on or after April 7, 2009. Prior to that date, the
Debentures  are  redeemable at 105% of par upon the occurrence of certain events
that  would have a  negative  effect on the Trust or that  would  cause it to be
required to be registered as an investment  company under the Investment Company
Act of 1940 or that would cause trust preferred securities not to be eligible to
be treated as Tier 1 capital by the Federal  Reserve  Board.  Upon  repayment or
redemption of the Debentures, the Trust will use the proceeds of the transaction

73

to redeem an equivalent  amount of trust  preferred  securities and trust common
securities.  The Trust's  obligations  under the trust preferred  securities are
unconditionally guaranteed by CBI.

The Company's investment in the Trust is carried at cost in other assets and the
debentures are included in long-term debt in the consolidated balance sheet.

Required future  principal  reductions of the  Corporation's  long-term debt are
summarized as follows:

                      Year                                Amount
                      ----                                ------
                             (Dollars in thousands)

                      2006                               $    500
                      2007                                  1,000
                      2008                                  2,500
                      2009                                  5,000
                      2010                                  7,200
                    Thereafter                             15,996
                                                         --------
                           Total                         $ 32,196
                                                         ========

NOTE 12 - STOCK OPTIONS AND DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT SHARES

Under the Corporation's  Dividend  Reinvestment Plan,  shareholders may reinvest
all or part of their cash  dividends in shares of common stock and also purchase
additional  shares of common stock.  During the three-year period ended December
31, 2005 all shares purchased under this plan were purchased in the market,  not
issued by the  Corporation.  At December 31, 2005,  624,665  common  shares were
reserved for issuance pursuant to the dividend reinvestment and additional stock
purchase plan.

During 2001, the Corporation  amended its 1997 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") to
increase  by 200,000  shares the number of shares  reserved  for  issuance  upon
exercise  of options  and to permit  participation  in the plan by  non-employee
directors.  During 2003, the Corporation amended the Plan to increase by 300,000
shares the number of shares  reserved  for  issuance  upon  exercise of employee
incentive  stock  options.  Under the Plan, as amended,  up to 785,600 shares of
common  stock  were  authorized  to  be  granted  to  selected  officers,  other
employees, and non-employee directors of the Corporation and/or its subsidiaries
pursuant  to exercise of  incentive  and  nonqualified  stock  options.  Of such
shares,  590,050 were  reserved  for issuance  pursuant to exercise of incentive
stock  options and 195,550 were  reserved  for issuance  pursuant to exercise of
nonqualified  stock options.  At December 31, 2005, 257,283 of the Corporation's
authorized  common  shares  remained  reserved for future grant  pursuant to the
Plan.

The exercise price of any incentive option granted is equal to the fair value of
the common stock on the date the option is granted.  Nonqualified options can be
issued for less than fair value;  however,  the  Corporation  has not elected to
issue these options for less than fair value at the date of the grant.

A summary of the  status of options  issued  pursuant  to the Plan is  presented
below:

74

The weighted average fair values of options granted each year are computed using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model using the assumptions detailed below:

                                                    Years Ended December 31,
                                                    ------------------------
                                                  2005        2004        2003
                                                  ----        ----        ----
Weighted average fair value of options
     granted during the year ............... $    2.33   $    4.74   $    4.33
Risk-free interest rate ....................      3.80%       3.74%       3.72%
Expected life (years) ......................      3.00        7.00        6.01
Expected volatility ........................     18.75%      26.15%      24.01%
Yield ......................................      2.60%       2.18%       2.00%

The following table summarizes information about the options outstanding:

Until January 1, 2006,  the  Corporation  applied APB Opinion No. 25 and related
interpretations   in  accounting  for  its   stock-based   compensation   plans.
Accordingly,  no  compensation  cost has previously been  recognized.  Effective
January 1, 2006, the  Corporation has adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),
which  will  change the cost  recognition  accounting  methodology.  See Note 2,
"Accounting Changes - Share-Based Payment."

                                       75

NOTE 13 - INCOME TAXES

The Corporation files consolidated federal income tax returns on a calendar-year
basis.

The provision for income taxes consists of the following:

Years Ended December 31,
                                                    ------------------------
                                                   2005         2004        2003
                                                   ----         ----        ----
                                                   (Dollars in thousands)
Current
     Federal .................................    $ 3,396     $ 1,367    $ 2,820
     State ...................................        202         117        280
                                                  -------     -------    -------
                Total current ................      3,598       1,484      3,100
                                                  -------     -------    -------

Deferred .....................................     (2,833)        287         47
                                                  -------     -------    -------
                Total income tax expense .....    $   765     $ 1,771    $ 3,147
                                                  =======     =======    =======

The provision  for income taxes  differs from that computed by applying  federal
statutory  rates at 34% to income  before income tax expense as indicated in the
following summary:

Years Ended December 31,
                                                    ------------------------
                                                   2005      2004         2003
                                                   ----      ----         ----
                                                    (Dollars in thousands)

Tax expense at statutory rate ..............    $   603     $ 1,693     $ 2,986
State income tax, net of federal
     income tax benefit ....................        134         184         174
Tax-exempt interest income .................        (87)       (133)       (136)
Amortization of organization costs and
     core deposit intangibles ..............         84          84          63
Other, net .................................         31         (57)         60
                                                -------     -------     -------
                Total ......................    $   765     $ 1,771     $ 3,147
                                                =======     =======     =======

Temporary  differences,  which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities,
are as follows:

76

December 31,
                                                                 ------------
                                                             2005          2004
                                                             ----          ----
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)
Deferred tax assets
     Allowance for loan losses .......................     $ 3,624      $ 1,073
     Unrealized net holding losses on
       available-for-sale securities .................         299           50
     State net operating loss ........................         109           70
     Other ...........................................         155           67
                                                           -------      -------
                Gross deferred tax assets ............       4,187        1,260
     Valuation allowance .............................        (109)         (70)
                                                           -------      -------
                Total ................................       4,078        1,190
                                                           -------      -------

Deferred tax liabilities
     Accelerated depreciation ........................         363          486
     Accretion .......................................          12            8
     Purchase adjustments - securities ...............          24           44
     Purchase adjustments - loans ....................          24           44
     Other ...........................................           -            9
                                                           -------      -------
                Gross deferred tax liabilities .......         423          591
                                                           -------      -------
Net deferred income tax assets .......................     $ 3,655      $   599
                                                           =======      =======

At December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004 valuation allowances of $109,000 and
$70,000 were  established  to offset  deferred tax assets arising from state net
operating loss  carryforwards  of the Corporation  (parent company only) and CRM
which management does not consider likely to be realizable.  The Corporation had
no available  carrybacks,  and realization of the remainder of the net operating
loss deductions is dependent upon the Corporation  (parent company only) and CRM
having aggregate future taxable income. The nature of the Corporation's  (parent
company  only)   operations  are  that   management  fees  are  charged  to  the
subsidiaries at levels  approximately  equal to the costs of providing services.
However, debt service is not charged to the subsidiaries and, consequently,  the
Corporation  (parent company only) operates at a deficit.  Operating  results of
CRM have historically fluctuated significantly along with changing conditions in
the home mortgage market. Accordingly, realization of the deferred tax assets is
not currently  believed to be more likely than not. The state net operating loss
carryforwards at December 31, 2005 total $2,170,000 and expire as follows:  2024
- - $1,407,000; and 2025 - $763,000.

NOTE 14 - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

The Corporation  provides a defined  contribution  plan qualified under Internal
Revenue Code Section  401(k).  All  employees  who have  completed  500 hours of
service  during a six-month  period and have attained age 21 may  participate in
the plan.

A participant  may elect to make tax deferred  contributions  up to a maximum of
$14,000 (plus $4,000 catch-up  contributions if they were at least 50 years old)
in the 2005 plan year.  The  Corporation  will make  matching  contributions  on
behalf of each  participant for 100% of the elective  deferral,  up to 3% of the
participant's   compensation.   The   Corporation   may  also  make   additional
contributions determined at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

                                       77

The Corporation's  contributions for 401(k) related profit sharing for the years
ended  December  31,  2005,  2004,  and  2003  totaled  approximately  $479,000,
$285,000,  and $170,000,  respectively.  Since 2001, the senior  officers of the
Corporation have not participated in this profit sharing program.

The Bank of Ridgeway  maintains a defined  benefit  pension  plan  covering  the
majority of its  employees.  This plan was in place  prior to the  Corporation's
acquisition  of Ridgeway  Bancshares,  Inc. in 2002.  Because  there are no such
plans for the Corporation's other  subsidiaries,  and there are no intentions to
establish  any other such plans,  the  Corporation  froze  benefit  accruals and
discontinued  additional  participation and voluntary  contributions in the plan
during 2003.  Management has no immediate  plans to formally  terminate the plan
and distribute  its assets.  The changes in the pension plan have been accounted
for as  curtailments  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of SFAS No.  88. The
following table shows the activity and status of that plan:

As of December 31,
                                                         ------------------
                                                      2005       2004      2003
                                                      ----       ----     ----
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)
Change in Benefit Obligation
  Benefit obligation as of January 1 .............    $ 752     $ 710     $ 796
  Service cost ...................................        -         -        11
  Interest cost ..................................       46        46        50
  Curtailments ...................................        -         -      (169)
  Actuarial (gain) loss ..........................       42       106        27
  Acquisition ....................................        -         -         -
  Benefits paid ..................................       (9)     (110)       (5)
                                                      -----     -----     -----
  Benefit obligation as of December 31 ...........      831       752       710
                                                      -----     -----     -----
Change in Plan Assets
  Fair value of plan assets as of January 1 ......      694       656       632
  Actual return (loss) on plan assets ............       50        88       (27)
  Acquisition ....................................        -         -         -
  Employer contributions .........................       60        60        56
  Benefits paid ..................................       (9)     (110)       (5)
                                                      -----     -----     -----
  Fair value of plan assets as of December 31 ....      795       694       656
                                                      -----     -----     -----
Funded Status of the Plan ........................      (36)      (58)      (54)
  Unrecognized transition obligation .............        -         -         -
  Unrecognized net loss ..........................      142       101        38
                                                      -----     -----     -----
  Prepaid (accrued) benefit liability ............    $ 106     $  43     $ (16)
                                                      =====     =====     =====
Amount Recognized in the Consolidated
    Balance Sheets consists of:

     Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost ..............    $ 106     $  43     $ (16)
                                                      =====     =====     =====

The  actuarial  assumptions  used to  determine  the  benefit  obligation  as of
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows:

December 31,
                                                              ------------
                                                         2005     2004     2003
                                                         ----     ----     ----
Pension Benefits Weighted Average Assumptions
  Discount rate .....................................    6.00%    6.25%    7.25%
  Rate of compensation increase .....................    3.00%    3.00%    5.00%

78

The components of net periodic pension cost were as follows:

                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                       -----------------------
                                                      2005      2004       2003
                                                      ----      ----       ----
Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost                 (Dollars in Thousands)
  Service cost ................................     $   -      $   -      $  11
  Interest cost ...............................        46         46         50
  Expected return on plan assets ..............       (51)       (47)       (41)
  Recognized net actuarial loss (gain) ........         -          -        169
  Amortization of transition obligation .......         -          -          -
  Amortization of unrecognized net loss .......         2          2          1
  Curtailment (gain) loss .....................         -          -       (169)
                                                    -----      -----      -----
    Net periodic benefit cost .................     $  (3)     $   1      $  21
                                                    =====      =====      =====

For the years ended December 31, 2005,  2004 and 2003, the  assumptions  used to
determine net periodic pension cost were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,
                                                         -----------------------
                                                         2005     2004     2003
                                                         ----     ----     ----
Pension Cost Weighted Average Assumptions
  Discount rate .....................................    6.25%    6.25%    7.25%
  Expected long-term rate of return on plan asets ...    7.25%    7.25%    7.25%
  Rate of compensation increase .....................    3.00%    3.00%    5.00%

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, pension plan assets consisted primarily of the
following:

                                                    Percentage of Plan Assets
                                                         at December 31,
                                                         ---------------
Asset Category                                         2005            2004
                                                       ----            ----
   Equities ...................................         51%             53%
   Bonds ......................................         24%             24%
   Cash .......................................          0%              0%
   Stable value instruments ...................         25%             23%
                                                       ---             ---
                 Total ........................        100%            100%
                                                       ===             ===

The plan did not hold any direct investment in the Corporation's common stock.

The Bank of Ridgeway expects to contribute $60,000 to the pension plan in 2006.

Estimated future benefit payments are as follows:

79

Year                                                        Amount
      ----                                                        ------
                                                       (Dollars in thousands)
      2006                                                       $ 214
      2007                                                          15
      2008                                                          15
      2009                                                          29
      2010                                                          29
Years 2011 through 2015                                            235

The Corporation  maintains no other  post-retirement or post-employment  benefit
plans.

NOTE 15 - OFF-BALANCE-SHEET COMMITMENTS

The  Banks  are   parties   to   credit-related   financial   instruments   with
off-balance-sheet  risk in the normal  course of business to meet the  financing
needs of their customers.  These financial  instruments  include  commitments to
extend  credit and  standby  letters of credit.  Such  commitments  involve,  to
varying  degrees,  elements  of credit and  interest  rate risk in excess of the
amount recognized in the consolidated balance sheets.

The Banks'  exposure to credit loss is represented by the  contractual  notional
amount of these commitments. The Banks generally use the same credit policies in
making these commitments as they do for on-balance-sheet instruments.

At  December  31,  2005 and  2004,  the  following  financial  instruments  were
outstanding whose contract amounts represent credit risk:

December 31,
                                                                ------------
                                                             2005         2004
                                                             ----         ----
                                                          (Dollars in thousands)

Loan commitments ...................................       $13,386       $11,644
Unfunded commitments under lines of credit .........        42,974        43,312
Standby letters of credit ..........................         2,024         2,919

Commitments  to extend  credit are  agreements  to lend to a customer as long as
there is no violation of any condition established in the contract.  Commitments
generally  have fixed  expiration  dates or other  termination  clauses  and may
require  payment of a fee. Since many of the  commitments are expected to expire
without  being  drawn  upon,  the total  commitment  amounts do not  necessarily
represent future cash requirements. The amount of collateral obtained, if deemed
necessary by the Banks upon extension of credit, is based on management's credit
evaluation  of the  borrower.  Collateral  held varies but may include  personal
residences, accounts receivable,  inventory, property, plant, and equipment, and
income-producing commercial properties.

Standby  letters of credit are  conditional  commitments  issued by the Banks to
guarantee  the  performance  of a customer to a third  party.  Those  letters of
credit are  primarily  issued to support  private  borrowing  arrangements.  All
letters of credit are short-term guarantees. The credit risk involved in issuing
letters of credit is  essentially  the same as that  involved in extending  loan

80

facilities to customers.  The Banks generally hold collateral  supporting  those
commitments if deemed necessary. Since many of the standby letters of credit are
expected to expire  without being drawn upon, the total letter of credit amounts
do not necessarily  represent  future cash  requirements.  To reduce credit risk
related to the use of credit-related financial instruments,  the Bank might deem
it  necessary  to obtain  collateral.  The amount  and nature of the  collateral
obtained is based on the Banks' credit  evaluation  of the customer.  Collateral
held varies but may include cash,  securities,  accounts receivable,  inventory,
property, plant and equipment and real estate.

From time to time, the Corporation enters into commitments related to the normal
conduct of its business.  In June 2005 the Corporation entered into an agreement
with Jack Henry and  Associates  related  to the  conversion  of its  management
information  system to Jack Henry's  Silverlake  product.  The initial aggregate
value of this commitment and its related software and hardware was approximately
$902,000.  At December 31, 2005, the remaining  obligation  under this agreement
was approximately $584,000. Management anticipates initial implementation of the
new  management  information  system  during the  second  quarter  and  complete
implementation by year end of 2006.

The Corporation's  Ridgeway bank entered into a lease agreement in December 2005
related to a building  under  construction.  The  Ridgeway  bank is  planning to
relocate its  existing  Blythewood  office to a new  location at 720  University
Village  Drive by late second  quarter 2006.  The Bank will lease  approximately
7,500 square feet in the  building,  which will be  approximately  13,500 square
feet. The Bank's lease obligation in years 1 through 5 will be $138,750 annually
and, in years 6 through 10 the obligation  will be $146,250  annually.  The Bank
will have the option to renew for up to three  additional  terms of 5 years each
upon expiration of the original term.

NOTE 16 - EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic  earnings per share  represent  income  available  to common  shareholders
divided by the  weighted-average  number of shares  outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share reflect additional common shares that would have been
outstanding  if all  dilutive  potential  stock  options  were  exercised at the
beginning  of  each  year  and  the  proceeds  used to  purchase  shares  of the
Corporation's common stock at the average market price during the year. Dilutive
potential  common shares that may be issued by the Corporation  relate solely to
outstanding stock options.

Earnings per common share were computed based on the following:

81

NOTE 17 - FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The fair value of a financial  instrument  is the  current  amount that would be
exchanged  between willing  parties,  other than in a forced  liquidation.  Fair
value is best  determined  based upon quoted  market  prices.  However,  in many
instances,  there are no quoted  market  prices  for the  Corporation's  various
financial  instruments.  In cases where quoted market prices are not  available,
fair  values  are based on  estimates  using  present  value or other  valuation
techniques. These techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used,
including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. Accordingly, the
fair value  estimates  may not be realized  in an  immediate  settlement  of the
instrument.   SFAS  No.  107,   "Disclosures   about  Fair  Value  of  Financial
Instruments,"  as  amended,  excludes  certain  financial  instruments  and  all
non-financial  instruments from its disclosure  requirements.  Accordingly,  the
aggregate  fair  value  amounts  presented  may not  necessarily  represent  the
underlying fair value of the Corporation.

The following methods and assumptions were used by the Corporation in estimating
fair values of financial instruments as disclosed herein:

     Cash  and  cash  equivalents.   The  carrying  amounts  of  cash  and  cash
     equivalents approximate fair values.

     Interest-bearing  deposits  with  other  banks.  The  carrying  amounts  of
     interest-bearing deposits with banks approximate their fair values.

     Securities   available-for-sale  and  held-to-maturity.   Fair  values  for
     securities  are based on quoted market  prices.  The market values of state
     and local  government  securities are established with the assistance of an
     independent  pricing  service.  The values  are based on data  which  often
     reflect  transactions  of  relatively  small  size and are not  necessarily
     indicative of the value of the securities when traded in large volumes.

     Other  investments.  Fair  values  of  other  investments,   consisting  of
     restricted  securities,  approximate the carrying  amounts and are based on
     the redemption provisions of the issuers.

                                       82

Loans held for sale. The carrying amounts approximate their fair values.

     Loans. Fair values for performing loans are estimated using discounted cash
     flow analyses,  using interest rates currently being offered for loans with
     similar  terms to  borrowers  of similar  credit  quality.  Fair values for
     non-performing  loans are estimated using  discounted cash flow analyses or
     underlying collateral values, where applicable.

     Accrued interest.  The carrying amounts of accrued interest  receivable and
     payable approximate fair value.

     Deposits.  The fair values  disclosed for demand  deposits are equal to the
     amount  payable on demand at the  reporting  date (that is, their  carrying
     amounts).  Fair values for  certificates of deposit and other time deposits
     are  estimated  using a  discounted  cash  flow  calculation  that  applies
     interest  rates  currently   offered  on  certificates  to  a  schedule  of
     aggregated expected monthly maturities of time deposits.

     Short-term borrowings.  The carrying amounts of federal funds purchased and
     borrowings  under  repurchase  agreements  approximate  their  fair  values
     because of the associated variable interest rates.

     Long-term  debt.  The fair value of fixed-rate  long-term debt is estimated
     using  discounted  cash flow analyses  based on the  Corporation's  current
     incremental  borrowing  rates for similar types of borrowing  arrangements.
     The fair value of variable-rate long-term debt is estimated at the carrying
     amount of the debt.

     Off-balance-sheet    commitments.   Fair   values   for   off-balance-sheet
     commitments  are based on fees  currently  charged  to enter  into  similar
     agreements,  taking into account the remaining  terms of the agreements and
     the counterparties' credit standings. The vast majority of loan commitments
     do not involve the charging of a fee, and costs associated with outstanding
     letters  of credit  are not  material.  For loan  commitments  and  standby
     letters of credit,  the  committed  interest  rates are either  variable or
     approximate  current  interest  rates  offered  for  similar   commitments.
     Therefore, the estimated fair values of these off-balance-sheet commitments
     are nominal.

The  estimated  fair  values and related  carrying  or  notional  amounts of the
Corporation's  financial  instruments  at  December  31,  2005 and 2004,  are as
follows:

83

NOTE 18 - CONTINGENCIES

The  Corporation  is subject at times to claims and lawsuits  arising out of the
normal  course of business.  As of December 31, 2005, no claims or lawsuits were
pending or threatened which, in the opinion of management,  are likely to have a
material effect on the Corporation's consolidated financial statements.

NOTE 19 - REGULATORY MATTERS

The Banks are  subject to  dividend  restrictions  set forth by various  banking
regulators.  Under such restrictions,  the national banks may not, without prior
approval,  declare dividends in excess of the sum of the current year's earnings
(as defined)  plus the retained  earnings (as defined)  from the prior two years
and the state bank may not declare  dividends  in excess of the  current  year's
earnings.  In addition,  dividends paid by the Banks to the Corporation would be
prohibited if the effect  thereof  would cause the Banks'  capital to be reduced
below  applicable  minimum  capital  requirements.  At December  31,  2005,  the
dividends that the Banks could declare without the approval of their  respective
primary bank regulators amounted to approximately $5,747,000. The Banks are also
restricted  by  law  as to the  amount  they  may  lend  to  any  non-depository
affiliate,  including  the  Corporation  and CRM.  Such loans are subject to the
requirements  of Section  23A of the  Federal  Reserve  Act  including a general
limitation  to not more than 10% of  capital  and  specified  ratios of the fair
market value of allowable  collateral to loan amounts.  There were no such loans
outstanding during 2005.

                                       84

The  Corporation  (on a  consolidated  basis) and the Banks are each  subject to
various  regulatory  capital  requirements  administered  by the federal banking
agencies.  Failure to meet minimum  capital  requirements  can initiate  certain
mandatory and possibly additional  discretionary  actions by regulators that, if
undertaken, could have a direct material adverse effect on the Corporation's and
the Banks'  financial  statements.  Under capital  adequacy  guidelines  and the
regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Corporation and the Banks
must meet specific  capital  guidelines  that involve  quantitative  measures of
their assets,  liabilities,  and certain  off-balance-sheet  items as calculated
under regulatory  accounting  practices.  The capital amounts and classification
are also subject to qualitative  judgments by the regulators  about  components,
risk weightings,  and other factors. Prompt corrective action provisions are not
applicable to bank holding companies.

Quantitative  measures  established  by  regulation to ensure  capital  adequacy
require the  Corporation  and the Banks to maintain  minimum  amounts and ratios
(set forth in the table  below) of total and Tier 1 capital  (as  defined in the
regulations)  to  risk-weighted  assets (as  defined),  and of Tier 1 capital to
average assets (as defined).  Management  believes,  as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, that the Corporation and the Banks met all capital  adequacy  requirements
to which they are subject.

As of December 31, 2005, for ONB, for SNB, for FNB, and for BOR, the most recent
notifications  from the FDIC categorized the Banks as well capitalized under the
regulatory  framework for prompt  corrective  action.  To be categorized as well
capitalized,   the  Banks  must  maintain  minimum  total  risk-based,   Tier  1
risk-based,  and Tier 1 leverage ratios as set forth in the table.  There are no
conditions  or events since the  notifications  that  management  believes  have
changed the Banks'  categories.  The Corporation's and the Banks' actual capital
amounts and ratios are presented in the following table.

85

CRM is  subject  to a  minimum  regulatory  adjusted  net worth  requirement  to
maintain  its  certification  as a  HUD-approved  Title  II Loan  Correspondent.
Certain investor and warehouse credit line agreements  require that CRM maintain
its HUD certification.  Accordingly,  failure to maintain the minimum regulatory
adjusted net worth could result in a significant  limitation of CRM's ability to
originate,  fund or sell  loans,  and  therefore  could have a direct,  material
adverse  effect on its business  and the  Corporation's  consolidated  financial
statements.

86

CRM's actual  regulatory  adjusted net worth and the minimum amount  required by
HUD were as follows:

December 31,
                                                              ------------
                                                         2005              2004
                                                         ----              ----
                                                          (Dollars in thousands)

Actual adjusted net worth ....................           $1,487           $1,161
Minimum required .............................               63               63

HUD regulations  require that 20%, up to a maximum of $100,000,  of the adjusted
net worth amount be held in liquid  assets.  CRM's liquid assets for  regulatory
purposes totaled $2,018,000 and $1,331,000,  respectively,  as of December,  31,
2005 and 2004.

NOTE 20 - CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Presented below are the condensed financial statements for Community Bankshares,
Inc. (Parent Company only):

COMMUNITY BANKSHARES, INC. (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                                                                 December 31,
                                                                 ------------
                                                              2005         2004
                                                              ----         ----
                                                         (Dollars in thousands)
Condensed Balance Sheets
Assets
    Cash ...............................................     $ 1,364     $ 3,991
    Investment in banking subsidiaries .................      48,646      48,598
    Investment in nonbanking subsidiaries ..............       1,797       1,471
    Securities available-for-sale, at fair value .......          96          96
    Loans to nonbanking subsidiary .....................       3,813       4,883
    Premises and equipment - net .......................       3,263       1,037
    Goodwill ...........................................         921         921
    Other assets .......................................       2,167          96
                                                             -------     -------
         Total assets ..................................     $62,067     $61,093
                                                             =======     =======
Liabilities
    Short-term borrowings ..............................     $ 2,000     $     -
    Long-term debt .....................................      10,310      10,310
    Other liabilities ..................................         765         756
Shareholders' equity ...................................      48,992      50,027
                                                             -------     -------
         Total liabilities and shareholders' equity ....     $62,067     $61,093
                                                             =======     =======

87

88

89

NOTE 21 - QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

During the third and fourth quarter of 2004  management  became aware of certain
credit quality  concerns  relative to its loan portfolio.  Consequently,  during
that period  significant  increases were recorded in the Corporation's loan loss
provision.

In  early  2005  management  hired a Chief  Credit  Officer,  enhanced  its loan
administration  process and engaged the services of a new  external  loan review
firm. The new loan review firm's initial series of reviews were completed during
the second and third quarter of 2005.  Based on those reviews,  and further work
conducted  by   management,   significant   increases   were   recorded  in  the
Corporation's loan loss provision during the last two quarters of 2005.

NOTE 22 - SUBSEQUENT EVENT

During  the  first  quarter  of 2006  the  corporate  board  concluded  that the
multi-bank  holding  company  concept was not in the best long range interest of
its shareholders,  customers or employees. The board directed management to plan
for a transition to a single bank charter,  to be  implemented by year-end 2006,
contingent on all required legal and regulatory approvals.

90

Item 9.  Changes  In  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
         Financial Disclosure

         There were no disagreements with or changes in accountants.

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures

         Based on the evaluation required by 17 C.F.R. Section  240.13a-15(b) or
240.15d-15(b)  of the  Corporation's  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  (as
defined in 17 C.F.R. Sections 240.13a-15(e) or 240.15d-15(e)), the Corporation's
chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that such controls
and procedures,  as of the end of the period covered by this annual report, were
effective.

         No disclosure is required  under 17 C.F.R.  Section  229.308(a) or (b).
There has been no change in the  Corporation's  internal  control over financial
reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or
is reasonably likely to materially  affect,  the Corporation's  internal control
over financial reporting.

Item 9B.  Other Information

No  information  required  to be  disclosed  in a report on Form 8-K  during the
fourth quarter of 2005 was not so disclosed.

                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The information set forth under the captions  "Management - Directors,"
"Management - Executive Officers," "Governance Matters - Committees of the Board
of  Directors  -  Audit  Committee"  and  "Section  16(a)  Beneficial  Ownership
Reporting  Compliance" in the Proxy Statement to be used in conjunction with the
2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Proxy Statement"), which will be filed
within 120 days of the Corporation's  fiscal year end, is incorporated herein by
reference.

Audit Committee Financial Expert

         The   Corporation's   board  of  directors  has  determined   that  the
Corporation does not have an "audit committee financial expert," as that term is
defined by Item 401(h) of  Regulation  S-K  promulgated  by the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission,  serving on its audit committee.  The Corporation's  audit
committee is a committee of directors who are independent of the Corporation and
its  management.  After  reviewing  the  experience  and  training of all of the
Corporation's  independent directors,  the board of directors has concluded that
no independent director meets the SEC's very demanding definition. Therefore, it
would be  necessary  to find a qualified  individual  willing to serve as both a
director and member of the audit  committee and have that person  elected by the
shareholders in order to have an "audit committee  financial  expert" serving on
the  Corporation's  audit  committee.  The  Corporation's  audit  committee  is,
however, authorized to use consultants to provide financial accounting expertise
in any instance where members of the committee  believe such assistance would be
useful.  Accordingly,  the Corporation does not believe that it needs to have an
"audit committee financial expert" on its audit committee.

91

Code of Ethics

         The  Corporation  has  adopted a code of ethics  (as  defined by C.F.R.
229.406) that applies to its principal executive officer and principal financial
officer.  The  code  of  ethics  is  posted  on  the  Corporation's  website  at
www.communitybanksharesinc.com.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

         With the  exception  of the  information  set forth under the  captions
"Board  Report  on  Executive  Officer  Compensation"  and  "Shareholder  Return
Performance  Graph",  which information is not incorporated herein by reference,
the information  set forth under the caption  "Management  Compensation"  in the
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security  Ownership of Certain  Beneficial  Owners and  Management and
          Related Stockholder Matters

         The  information  set forth under the caption  "Security  Ownership  of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated
herein by reference.

         Equity  Compensation Plan  Information.  The following table sets forth
aggregated  information  as of December 31, 2005 about all of the  Corporation's
compensation plans (including individual compensation  arrangements) under which
equity securities of the Corporation are authorized for issuance.

Number of securities
                                                                                                          remaining available for
                                         Number of securities to be         Weighted average              future issuance under
                                         issued upon exercise of            exercise price of            equity compensation plans
                                           outstanding options,            outstanding options,            (excluding securities
                                           warrants and rights             warrants and rights             reflected in column (a))
Stock option plan                                    (a)                             (b)                            (c)
- --------------------------------------     -------------------             -------------------             ------------------------

Equity compensation plans
 approved by security holders ............         512,073                        $   14.46                       273,527

Equity compensation plans not
 approved by security holders ............             N/A                              N/A                           N/A
                                                   -------                           ------                       -------

Total ....................................         512,073                        $   14.46                       273,527
                                                   =======                           ======                       =======

The  Corporation's  1997 Stock Option Plan, and issuance of up to 785,600 shares
under that plan, have previously been approved by shareholders.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         The information set forth under the caption "Certain  Relationships and
Related   Transactions"  in  the  Proxy  Statement  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

92

Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services

         The  information  set  forth  under  the  caption  "Independent  Public
Accountants  - Fees  Billed  by  Independent  Auditors"  and "- Audit  Committee
Pre-Approval  of  Audit  and  Permissible   Non-Audit  Services  of  Independent
Auditors" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

93

Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) (1) All financial statements:

Consolidated Balance Sheets, December 31, 2005 and 2004
Consolidated Statements of Income, Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, Years Ended
     December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004
     and 2003
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(2) Financial statement schedules:

Quarterly Data for 2005 and 2004

94

Signatures

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                           DATED: March 30, 2006

By:  s/ Samuel L. Erwin
     ----------------------------
     Samuel L. Erwin
     Chief Executive Officer

By  s/ William W. Traynham, Jr.
    -----------------------------
    William W. Traynham, Jr
    Chief Financial Officer

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

95

EXHIBIT INDEX

96

<EX-23>
 2
 cbi10k06ex23.txt

EXHIBIT 23

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT

The Board of Directors
Community Bankshares, Inc.

We consent to the  incorporation  by reference into  Registration  Statement No.
333-18461 on Form S-8 and  Registration  Statement No.  333-46111 on Form S-3 of
Community  Bankshares,  Inc. of our report dated February 27, 2006,  relating to
the consolidated balance sheets of Community  Bankshares,  Inc. and subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the related  statements of income,  changes
in  shareholders'  equity,  and cash  flows for each of the  three  years in the
three-year  period ended December 31, 2005, which report appears in the December
31, 2005 annual report on Form 10-K of Community Bankshares, Inc.

                                                 s/ J.W. Hunt and Company, LLP

Columbia, SC
March 30, 2006

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 3
 cbi10k06ex31-1.txt
 
                                                                    Exhibit 31-1

CERTIFICATIONS

I, Samuel L. Erwin, certify that:

1. I have  reviewed  this annual  report on Form 10-K of  Community  Bankshares,
Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based  on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I  are  responsible  for
establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

         a) designed such  disclosure  controls and  procedures,  or caused such
disclosure  controls and  procedures to be designed  under our  supervision,  to
ensure that  material  information  relating to the  registrant,  including  its
consolidated subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

         c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure controls
and  procedures  and  presented  in  this  report  our  conclusions   about  the
effectiveness  of the disclosure  controls and procedures,  as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

         d)  disclosed  in this report any change in the  registrant's  internal
control over financial  reporting  that occurred  during the  registrant's  most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual  report)  that  has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably  likely  to
materially affect, the registrant's  internal control over financial  reporting;
and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed,  based on our
most recent  evaluation of internal  control over  financial  reporting,  to the
registrant's  auditors  and the audit  committee  of the  registrant's  board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

         a) all significant  deficiencies and material  weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal  control over financial  reporting which are reasonably
likely  to  adversely  affect  the  registrant's  ability  to  record,  process,
summarize and report financial information; and

         b) any fraud,  whether or not  material,  that  involves  management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
over financial reporting.

Date: March 30, 2006                         /s/Samuel L. Erwin
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Samuel L. Erwin
                                             Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 4
 cbi10k06ex31-2.txt

CERTIFICATIONS

                                                                    Exhibit 31-2

I, William W. Traynham, certify that:

1. I have  reviewed  this annual  report on Form 10-K of  Community  Bankshares,
Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact  necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the  circumstances  under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based  on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.  The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I  are  responsible  for
establishing and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

         a) designed such  disclosure  controls and  procedures,  or caused such
disclosure  controls and  procedures to be designed  under our  supervision,  to
ensure that  material  information  relating to the  registrant,  including  its
consolidated subsidiaries,  is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

         c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure controls
and  procedures  and  presented  in  this  report  our  conclusions   about  the
effectiveness  of the disclosure  controls and procedures,  as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

         d)  disclosed  in this report any change in the  registrant's  internal
control over financial  reporting  that occurred  during the  registrant's  most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's  fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual  report)  that  has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably  likely  to
materially affect, the registrant's  internal control over financial  reporting;
and

5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed,  based on our
most recent  evaluation of internal  control over  financial  reporting,  to the
registrant's  auditors  and the audit  committee  of the  registrant's  board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

         a) all significant  deficiencies and material  weaknesses in the design
or operation of internal  control over financial  reporting which are reasonably
likely  to  adversely  affect  the  registrant's  ability  to  record,  process,
summarize and report financial information; and

         b) any fraud,  whether or not  material,  that  involves  management or
other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
over financial reporting.

Date: March 30, 2006                 /s/William W. Traynham
                                      ---------------------------------------
                                        William W. Traynham
                                        President and Chief Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 5
 cbi10k06ex32.txt
 
                                                                      Exhibit 32

                Certifications Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350

The  undersigned,  who are the chief  executive  officer and the chief financial
officer of Community  Bankshares,  Inc., each hereby certifies that, to the best
of his knowledge,  the accompanying  Form 10-K of the issuer fully complies with
the  requirements  of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of
1934,  and that  information  contained in the report  fairly  presents,  in all
materials  respects,  the  financial  condition and results of operations of the
issuer.

March 30, 2006

                                                     s/ Samuel L. Erwin
                                                     -----------------------
                                                     Samuel L. Erwin
                                                     Chief Executive Officer

s/ William W. Traynham
                                                     ----------------------
                                                     William W. Traynham
                                                     Chief Financial Officer

</EX-32>

