<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_1292556_0000950144-06-002978_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1217870</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>288461</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>642457</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>82</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950144-06-002978.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331092316
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950144-06-002978
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Polypore International, Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001292556
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCTS [2890]
		IRS NUMBER:				432049334

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-32266
		FILM NUMBER:		06725505

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(704) 588-5310

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		13800 SOUTH LAKES DRIVE
		CITY:			CHARLOTTE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28273

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Gpf8+y/kkOuwoSFu2PYNZYf+5XODq35VmJyB47WbUNQV+DxcZi28PfTkj/1x7onr
 Yjtjmzd3DGMveKOrBEfAGw==

 0000950144-06-002978.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 g00480e10vk.htm
 POLYPORE INTERNATIONAL, INC.

Polypore International, Inc. 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, DC 20549 

Form  10-K  

Commission File Number 1-32266 

Polypore International, Inc. 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Registrant s Telephone Number, Including Area Code

(704) 587-8409

Securities to be registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act:

None

Securities to be registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of
the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes              No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation  S-K  is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form  10-K  or any
amendment to this
Form  10-K.        

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
filer              Accelerated
filer              Non-accelerated
filer   

Indicate by checkmark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange
Act).     Yes              No   

The Company currently has 171,421 shares of common stock
outstanding, all of which are directly or indirectly owned by
Warburg Pincus and certain members of management. Because no
public market exists for such shares, the aggregate market value
of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the Company is not
determinable.

Polypore International, Inc. 

Index to Annual Report on
Form  10-K  

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005

Page    

Part I

Item 1. 

Business  

4 

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors  

13 

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments  

19 

Item 2. 

Properties  

19 

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings  

19 

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders  

19 

Part II 

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities  

20 

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data  

20 

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

22 

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk  

36 

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data  

37 

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

70 

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures  

70 

Item 9B. 

Other Information  

70 

Part III 

Item 10. 

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant  

70 

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation  

72 

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

79 

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  

80 

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

82 

Part IV 

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules  

83 

Signatures  

86 

Ex-10.15    
     Ex-12.1    
     Ex-21.1    
     Ex-31.1    
     Ex-31.2    
     Ex-32.1    
     Ex-32.2    

In this Annual Report on
Form  10-K,  the
words  Polypore International,   Company, 
 we,   us  and  our  refer to
Polypore International, Inc. together with its subsidiaries,
including Polypore, Inc., unless the context indicates
otherwise. References to  fiscal year  mean the 52 or
53 week period ending on the Saturday that is closest to
December 31. The fiscal year ended December 31, 2005,
or  fiscal 2005,  included 52 weeks. The period
from January 4, 2004 through May 1, 2004 includes
17 weeks and the period from May 2, 2004 through
January 1, 2005 includes 35 weeks (together,
52 weeks), or  fiscal 2004.  The fiscal year
ended January 3, 2004, or  fiscal 2003,  included
53 weeks. The fiscal years ended December 28, 2002, or
 fiscal 2002,  and December 29, 2001, or
 fiscal 2001,  included 52 weeks.

Table of Contents   

Forward-looking Statements 

This Annual Report on
Form  10-K  includes
 forward-looking statements  within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
 Securities Act ) and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange
Act ), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. All statements other than statements of historical facts
included in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  that
address activities, events or developments that we expect,
believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are
forward-looking statements, including, in particular, the
statements about Polypore International s plans,
objectives, strategies and prospects regarding, among other
things, the financial condition, results of operations and
business of Polypore International and its subsidiaries. We have
identified some of these forward-looking statements with words
like  believe,   may,   will, 
 should,   expect,   intend, 
 plan,   predict,   anticipate, 
 estimate  or  continue  and other words and
terms of similar meaning. These forward-looking statements may
be contained under the captions entitled  Business, 
 Properties,   Controls and Procedures, 
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,   Risk
Factors,  or the Company s financial statements or the
notes thereto.

These forward-looking statements are based on current
expectations about future events affecting us and are subject to
uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and
business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and
many of which are beyond our control. Many factors mentioned in
our discussion in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K, 
including the risks outlined under the caption below entitled
 Item 1A. Risk Factors,  will be important in
determining future results. Although we believe that the
expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are
reasonable, we do not know whether our expectations will prove
correct. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might
make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including
with respect to Polypore International, the following, among
other things:

the highly competitive nature of the markets in which we sell
    our products; 

the failure to continue to develop innovative products; 

the failure to successfully manage the transition in
    hemodialysis from cellulosic to synthetic filtration membranes; 

the loss of our customers; 

the vertical integration by our customers of the production of
    our products into their own manufacturing process; 

increases in prices for raw materials or the loss of key
    supplier contracts; 

employee slowdowns, strikes or similar actions; 

product liability claims exposure; 

risks in connection with our operations outside the United
    States; 

the incurrence of substantial costs to comply with, or as a
    result of violations of, or liabilities under environmental laws; 

the failure to protect our intellectual property; 

the failure to replace lost senior management; 

the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities and
    expenses in connection with future acquisitions; 

the failure to effectively integrate newly acquired
    operations; and 

the absence of expected returns from the amount of intangible
    assets we have recorded. 

Because our actual results, performance or achievements could
differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the
forward-looking statements, we cannot give any assurance that
any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements
will occur or, if any of them do, what impact they will have on
Polypore International s results of operations and
financial condition. You are cautioned not to place

2

Table of Contents   

undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak
only as of the date of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K.  We do
not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking
statements or the factors set forth in the caption below
entitled  Risk Factors  to reflect new information,
future events or otherwise, except as may be required under
federal securities laws.

We have filed this Annual Report on
Form  10-K, 
Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q  and
Current Reports on
Form  8-K,  and will
file or furnish other reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) under the Exchange Act, with the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( Commission  or  SEC ). You may
inspect a copy of any of our filings without charge at the
Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain copies of our filings from
such office at prescribed rates. You may also obtain information
on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
at  1-800-SEC-0330.  The
SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that
contains reports, proxy and information statements and other
information regarding issuers, including Polypore International,
Inc., that file electronically with the SEC. Our reports are
available on the SEC website as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such materials with the SEC. The
reports are also available in print to any stockholder who
requests them by contacting our corporate secretary at the
address above for the Company s principal executive
offices. Our website address is  http://www.polypore.net .

3

Table of Contents   

Item 1.  
     
     Business  

General 

Polypore International, Inc. is a worldwide developer,
manufacturer and marketer of highly specialized polymer-based
membranes used in separation and filtration processes. Our
products and technologies target specialized applications and
markets that require the removal or separation of various
materials from liquids, with such materials ranging in size from
microscopic to those visible to the human eye.

We manage our operations under two business segments: energy
storage and separations media. The energy storage segment, which
accounts for approximately two-thirds of our total sales,
produces different types of membranes that function as
separators in lead-acid batteries used in transportation and
industrial applications and in lithium batteries used in
electronics applications. The separations media segment, which
accounts for approximately one-third of our total sales,
produces membranes used in various healthcare and industrial
applications, including hemodialysis, blood oxygenation,
ultrapure water filtration, degasification and other specialty
applications.

We believe that we are a leading provider, in terms of market
share, of membrane products for use in our primary separation
and filtration markets. Our markets are highly specialized and
constitute an attractive mix of stability and growth. We
generally compete with only a few other companies. We enjoy
longstanding relationships and collaborative partnerships with a
diverse base of customers who are among the leaders in their
respective markets. These relationships are strengthened by our
ability to develop highly technical membrane products that meet
the precise and evolving needs of our customers. Most of our
products require years of cooperative development with
customers, extensive testing and, in some applications,
regulatory approval prior to the introduction of our
customers  products to the market. Although many of our
products are critical functional components in our
customers  end products, they typically represent a
relatively small percentage of the final delivered cost. In many
of our markets, we are often selected as the customer s
exclusive supplier.

Historically, our growth has been both organic and through
acquisitions. We significantly diversified our portfolio of
products by acquiring Celgard from the Hoechst Celanese
Corporation in December 1999, which gave us access to the
fast-growing electronics and specialty filtration markets, and
Membrana GmbH, a German corporation, from Acordis AG in February
2002 to expand our presence in the healthcare and specialty
filtration markets. Almost every process stream has a filtration
application, and many end products require materials possessing
specialized filtration and separation functions. The large and
extremely fragmented filtration and separation market presents
an opportunity for future consolidation.

Our business strategy focuses on maintaining our existing strong
collaborative relationships with our customers. Our research and
development team works closely with our customers on product
development, resulting in products customized to our
customers  manufacturing and end-use specifications. For
example, as the power output requirement for rechargeable
lithium batteries increases, we work closely with our customers
to develop innovative separators, such as our proprietary
trilayer separator, to meet the increased technical demands and
specifications.

In addition, we seek to expand our products into adjacent
markets and pursue new, developing niche end-markets. For
example, we intend to expand our existing pipeline of products
targeting future technology applications, which currently
includes membranes for fuel cells, hybrid electric vehicles and
specialty filtration applications. In addition, we believe there
are significant opportunities to expand the geographical
distribution of our existing products. Our Thailand facility,
opened in 2002, gives us a local presence to serve the
fast-growing Asian automobile fleet.

Finally, we intend to increase profitability through ongoing
initiatives designed to improve efficiencies in the following
areas:

productivity gains through improved and integrated business
    processes, 

employee empowerment by encouraging quick decision-making at the
    lowest practical management levels, and 

overhead reduction through continued cost focus and control. 

4

Table of Contents   

Products, markets and customers 

Our business segments are energy storage and separations media.
Within each of these segments, we develop and produce products
that relate to certain industrial and specialty technology
end-use markets. The following table describes our key products
and end-use markets served:

Segment  
       
      Applications  
       
      Major brands  
       
      End-uses and markets  

Energy storage

Lead-acid batteries 

DARAK    
    Daramic    

Transportation and industrial batteries 

Rechargeable and disposable lithium batteries 

CELGARD    

Electronics products such as laptop computers, mobile
    telephones, cameras and military equipment 

Separations media

Hemodialysis 

CUPROPHAN    
    DIAPES    
    HEMOPHAN    
    SMC    
    PUREMA    

Hemodialysis dialyzers which replicate function of healthy
    kidneys 

Blood oxygenation 

CELGARD    
    HEX
    PET    
    OXYPHAN    
    OXYPLUS    

Heart-lung machine oxygenation unit for open-heart surgical
    procedures 

Plasmapheresis 

FRACTIO
    PES    
    MICRO
    PES      Capillary 
    PLASMAPHAN    

Blood cell and plasma separation equipment 

Industrial and specialty applications 

Accurel   
    PP 

Microelectronics manufacturing and chemical filtration 

Accurel
    Systems    

Polymer additives carrier 

Artisyn    

Printing media/graphic arts 

Liqui-Cel    

Water degasification, semiconductor and microelectronics
    manufacturing, beverage processing and pharmaceutical production 

MicroPES    

Water/chemical filtration for drinking water treatment and food
    and beverage processing 

SuperPhobic    

Solvent/ink de-bubbling for ink jet printers and semiconductor
    manufacturing 

Liqui-Flux    

Food, beverage and water filtration 

UltraPES    

Prefiltration for reverse osmosis, water filtration 

Energy storage   

Our separators in the energy storage segment are used in
lead-acid and lithium batteries to separate the positive and
negative electrodes and control the flow of ions between them.
These separators require specialized technical engineering and
must be manufactured to extremely demanding requirements
including thickness, porosity, mechanical strength, chemical and
electrical resistance. During fiscal 2005, pro forma 2004 and
fiscal 2003, our energy storage businesses accounted for 71.5%,
67.9% and 66.9% of our net sales, respectively.

5

Table of Contents   

Transportation and industrial applications.  We develop,
manufacture and market a complete line of polyethylene and other
resin separators for use in lead-acid batteries. Approximately
80% of the lead-acid battery separators we sell are used in
starting, lighting and ignition ( SLI ) batteries for
automobiles and other motor vehicles and approximately 20% are
used in batteries for industrial applications such as forklifts,
marine applications and stationary applications such as backup
power for telecom infrastructure and uninterruptible power
supply systems.

Separators used in lead-acid batteries are among the most highly
engineered and performance critical components of the battery,
yet only represent a small portion of the battery s total
cost. Our separators are designed to enhance battery performance
and stability. We use polyethylene, polypropylene, and/or
polyester mats to achieve product characteristics that satisfy
highly engineered customer specifications. We have enhanced
battery performance by constantly improving the balance between
pore size and narrow pore distribution. Membrane pores must be
large enough to allow ions to pass through, but small enough to
prevent contamination from conductive particles, which cause
short circuits. Our top five separator customers are Exide
Technologies, Johnson Controls, Inc., East Penn Manufacturing
Co., Inc., Fiamm Group and EnerSys, Inc. We believe we have
the number one aggregate market share position in terms of
providing battery separators to the global transportation and
industrial battery market.

Electronics applications.  We also develop, manufacture
and market a complete line of polypropylene and polyethylene
monolayer and proprietary multilayer separators used for
rechargeable (Li2) and disposable (Li1) lithium batteries.
Approximately 85% of the lithium battery separators we sell are
used in rechargeable lithium batteries and 15% are used in
disposable lithium batteries. Rechargeable lithium batteries are
used in consumer electronic products such as laptop computers,
mobile telephones, cameras and PDAs. Disposable lithium
batteries are primarily used in cameras, portable stereos and
military applications. Our top lithium battery separator
customers include Matsushita Battery Industrial Company Limited,
BYD Company Limited, Tianjin Lishen Battery Joint-Stock Co.,
Ltd.,  E-One  Moli
Energy, Ltd, and Saft SA. We believe we are among the top three
providers of battery separators to the lithium battery market
and have been since its development in the early 1990 s. We
believe these three providers supply more than 90% of the
battery separator requirements for the lithium battery market.
Market share fluctuates based on many factors including
capacity, relative customer strength, product performance and
economic conditions.

Separations media   

In our separations media segment, we manufacture and market
filtration membranes for use in hemodialysis, oxygenation and
plasmapheresis machines in the healthcare industry as well as
other industrial and specialty applications in the
semiconductor, microelectronics, food and beverage and water
purification industries. During fiscal 2005, pro forma 2004 and
fiscal 2003, our separations media business accounted for 28.5%,
32.1% and 33.1% of our net sales, respectively.

Hemodialysis.  We are a leading independent developer,
manufacturer and marketer of hemodialysis membranes, which are a
critical component of dialyzers, a consumable item for kidney
dialysis.

Dialysis is the artificial process that performs the function of
a healthy kidney for patients with end-stage renal disease
( ESRD ). In a healthy person, the kidney carries out
certain excretory and endocrine functions, including filtering
toxins from the blood and controlling blood pressure. For an
ESRD patient on dialysis, the membranes in the dialyzer perform
these filtering functions. The membranes consist of thousands of
fibers that resemble hollow straws slightly larger than a human
hair. These fibers have micropores in their walls at a density
of millions of holes per square inch. The size and distribution
of these micropores separate harmful toxins from the healthy
blood passing through the dialyzer.

Because dialyzers are designed to use specific membrane
technology and require U.S. Food and Drug Administration
( FDA ) approval, a dialyzer manufacturer s
relationship with its membrane supplier is strategically
important, and the costs of changing suppliers are substantial.
Switching to a membrane manufactured by a different supplier can
involve two or three years of development costs. Because of the
critical mission and integral role membranes play and the
difficulty and expense involved in their substitution, we
believe that major membrane manufacturers will play an important
role in the future structure of the dialyzer industry. Key
players in the dialysis industry using the Company s
membranes in their dialyzer include Gambro, Nipro, NxStage,
Haidylena and Bellco. Hemodialysis filtration membranes

6

Table of Contents   

are fabricated from two classes of materials: cellulosic and
synthetic. Historically, most filtration membranes for dialyzers
have been manufactured with cellulosic materials. In the last
several years, membranes manufactured from synthetic materials
have captured most of the market growth, while unit shipments of
cellulosic materials declined. Since 2001, we have invested in
developing and improving our own synthetic products and building
new capacity to support the expected growth in this segment. We
believe that our next generation synthetic product,
PUREMA   ,
which was commercially introduced by a major customer in late
2005, offers
 best-in -class technical
performance relative to other membranes in the marketplace.

Blood oxygenation.  We believe we are the world s
leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of membranes for
use in blood oxygenators, with over 80% of the estimated global
market share. A blood oxygenator is a device used to remove
carbon dioxide from the blood while oxygen is diffused through a
membrane and into the blood. Oxygenators are primarily sold to
hospitals for use in heart-lung bypass surgical procedures.
Because blood oxygenators are designed to utilize a specific
membrane technology and require regulatory approval, an
oxygenator manufacturer s relationship with its membrane
supplier is vital and switching costs can be substantial. We
sell our membranes to all major blood oxygenator producers,
including Dideco/ Sorin/ Cobe Group, Medtronic and Jostra.

Plasmapheresis.  We are a leading developer, manufacturer
and marketer of extracorporeal therapeutic plasmapheresis
membranes. Plasmapheresis is the extracorporeal separation of
blood cells and plasma from plasma proteins used in treating
different diseases. Major manufacturers of plasmapheresis
equipment include Dideco, Fresenius Medical Care and Gambro.

Industrial and specialty applications.  We develop,
manufacture and market a number of industrial and specialty
filtration and filtration-related products. Liquid filtration is
a diverse and high growth market, and almost every process
stream has a filtration application. We supply a broad portfolio
of membranes based on flat sheet, tubular and capillary
technology. Our industrial and specialty products are focused on
the gas/liquid and solid/liquid separations sectors in a wide
variety of processing end-markets including semiconductor and
microelectronics manufacturing, food and beverage processing and
water purification. In many of those end-markets, there is
growing demand for ever-increasing purity levels in the
manufacturing process. We collaborate with customers to develop
new products using various media to address demanding customer
liquid filtration and purification specifications. In addition,
we develop products that can be used in a multitude of
applications. The control of dissolved gases in liquids is a key
part of the manufacturing process in many industries. The same
fibers used in our oxygenation products
(CELGARD   
and
OXYPLUS   )
are used in these degasification applications.

The following are descriptions of certain of our industrial and
specialty products:

MicroPES   
    is a polyethersulfone flat sheet or hollow fiber microfiltration
    membrane with broad chemical and low protein binding
    characteristics, properties which are attractive to end-users
    who desire minimal absorption of their product. This membrane is
    primarily used in tap water filtration and miscellaneous food
    and beverage filtration applications. 

Accurel   
    PP is a polypropylene membrane which can be used in a wide range
    of pH conditions. This membrane is an economical choice for many
    applications compared to certain higher priced products, and is
    primarily used for chemical filtration in semiconductor
    processing applications. 

UltraPES   
    is a hollow fiber, ultrafiltration polyethersulfone membrane
    used for reverse osmosis systems pretreatment, the filtration of
    drinking water and municipal city wastewater and the separation
    of oil content from industrial process water streams. 

Liqui-Cel   
    membrane contactors are modular products incorporating
    hydrophobic hollow fiber membranes and are used in a wide
    variety of industries including semiconductor and
    microelectronics manufacturing, beverages and pharmaceuticals.
    This purification technology is also used for flat panel display
    manufacturing and in power plants. 

SuperPhobic   
    membrane contactors are a special type of membrane contactor
    which can treat liquids which otherwise penetrate the membrane
    pores of conventional
    Liqui-Cel   
    membrane contactors. Typical applications involve the
    elimination of microbubbles in liquids which, upon occurrence,
    negatively impact customer production processes, quality and
    yield. Some applications include the 

7

Table of Contents   

degassing of inks, paper coating solutions, photoemulsion and
    alcohol debubbling. This membrane is primarily used for ink
    degassing for ink jet delivery systems and semiconductor
    photoresist solutions. 

We have also developed several functional membranes for
controlling moisture in fuel cell systems. In addition, we have
filed several patent applications for membranes used in polymer
electrolyte membrane type fuel cells, including novel concepts
for proton exchange film.

New product development   

We have focused our research and development efforts on
increasing production capacity and improving production
processes, developing products for new markets based on existing
technologies and developing new process technologies to enhance
existing businesses and allow entry into new businesses. We
spent approximately $12.1 million (3% of our net sales),
$13.6 million (3% of our net sales) and $13.4 million
(3% of our net sales) in fiscal 2005, pro forma 2004 and fiscal
2003, respectively, on research and development.

Our battery separator product research is performed at technical
centers at our plants in Owensboro, Kentucky; Norderstedt,
Germany; and Charlotte, North Carolina. We are in the process of
relocating our battery separator research currently performed at
our Norderstedt, Germany facility to our facilities in
Prachinburi, Thailand and Selestat, France. Our healthcare
technical center was located in Obernberg, Germany before all of
its activities were relocated to Wuppertal, Germany in 2005. All
of the products that we develop are subject to multiple levels
of extensive and rigorous testing. The qualification of
separators for use in industrial and automotive applications,
for instance, may require one or more years of testing by our
staff and battery manufacturers.

End-market overview 

The global market for separation and filtration membranes is
large and extremely fragmented, with most suppliers producing
products for separate and distinct niches. The membranes we
manufacture provide these specialized functions for our
customers, who use our membranes as a critical component within
their own products.

Industry analysts estimate that the annual global market for
lead-acid batteries is approximately $30 billion, or
770 million units, of which approximately $25 billion,
or 600 million units, are lead-acid batteries for SLI
applications for motor vehicles. Although separators are a
critical component within lead-acid batteries, they constitute a
small portion of the overall cost. Accordingly, the size of the
separator market is much smaller than the overall lead-acid
battery market. We estimate that automobile lead-acid batteries
are approximately 80% of our lead-acid battery separator
revenue. The SLI lead-acid battery market is characterized by
stable demand because of the relatively short replacement cycle
for batteries in automobiles. For example, industry analysts
estimate that the average battery is replaced every three to
four years. As a result of this short replacement cycle and due
to the large number of motor vehicles worldwide, we estimate
that approximately 80% of automotive and other SLI lead-acid
batteries are for the replacement market. The primary demand
driver of the replacement market is the size of the worldwide
fleet of motor vehicles, which, according to  Ward s
Motor Vehicles Facts and Figures,  has been growing
approximately 3% per year. Secondary drivers of the
replacement market include weather patterns (hot summers and
cold winters tend to shorten battery life), the longer average
life of vehicles and the larger average size of engines. We
believe that the market for our major product, polyethylene
separators, has historically grown at a faster pace than the
underlying lead-acid battery market because polyethylene
separators have been taking market share from alternative
materials such as PVC, cellulose and rubber. Major lead-acid
battery manufacturers include Exide Technologies, Johnson
Controls Inc., East Penn Manufacturing Co., Inc. and Fiamm Group.

According to industry analysts, the market for rechargeable
lithium batteries used in electronic devices is over
$3 billion, and the market for disposable lithium batteries
is approximately $700 million. As with lead-acid batteries,
the size of the market for separators is considerably smaller
than the overall market for lithium batteries because separators
constitute only a small portion of overall cost. Approximately
85% of our unit volume of lithium battery separators is
comprised of separators for rechargeable lithium batteries
(Li2), while approximately 15% is comprised of separators for
disposable lithium batteries (Li1). According to industry
analysts, sales in the rechargeable lithium battery market are
expected to grow at a

8

Table of Contents   

compound annual growth rate of approximately 16% through 2011.
Growth in the rechargeable lithium battery business has
historically been driven by growth in the underlying markets for
portable electronic products (primarily mobile telephones and
laptop computers) and the displacement of nickel-based battery
technologies. The continuing market growth is being driven by
the increasing mobility of consumers demanding portable
electronic devices, the increasing number of consumers
purchasing  back-up 
batteries, and the increasing functionality and complexity of
these devices requiring more battery power and more batteries
per electronic device. Lithium-based batteries exhibit superior
energy density and weight characteristics relative to other
battery technologies such as nickel-based materials and have
become the standard in the majority of consumer end-markets. For
example, we believe that over 90% of new mobile telephones and
laptop computers contain rechargeable lithium batteries. Major
lithium battery manufacturers include Sanyo Electric Company
Limited, Matsushita Battery Industrial Company Limited
(Panasonic brand), Sony Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., Duracell International Incorporated, BYD Company
Limited, Tianjin Lishen Battery Joint-Stock Co., Ltd., LG
Electronics, Inc. and Saft SA.

Demand for dialyzers is driven by the aging population in
developed countries, increased ESRD incidence, longer
life-expectancy of treated ESRD patients, improving access to
treatment in developing countries and the trend in the United
States toward single-use rather than multiple-use dialyzers.
According to the European Renal Association European Dialysis
and Transplant Association, the number of worldwide ESRD
patients has been growing 7% per year over the last twenty
years to reach approximately 1.5 million patients treated
by hemodialysis globally in 2005. ESRD patients generally
receive three kidney dialysis treatments per week, resulting in
stable and recurring demand for dialyzers and our membranes.

Sales and marketing 

We sell our products and services to customers in both the
domestic and international marketplace. We sell primarily to
manufacturers and converters that incorporate our products into
their finished goods.

We employ a direct worldwide sales force and utilize
approximately 50 experienced people who manage major customer
relationships. Many of our sales representatives are engineers
or similarly trained technical personnel who have advanced
knowledge of our products and the applications for which they
are used. Our sales representatives are active in new product
development efforts and are strategically located in the major
geographic regions in which our products are sold. In certain
geographic areas, we use distributors or other agents.

We typically seek to enter into long-term supply contracts with
our major customers. These contracts typically describe the
volume and selling price and can last up to 10 years. In
addition, these contracts reflect our close collaborative
relationship with our customers, which is driven by our
customers  need to develop new separators and membranes
directly with us.

In fiscal 2005, net sales to our top five customers represented
approximately 32% of our total net sales. Exide Technologies
represented approximately 17% of our sales in fiscal 2005.

Manufacturing and operations 

General   

We have manufacturing facilities in the major geographic markets
of North America, Europe and Asia. We manufacture our lead-acid
separators at our facilities in Owensboro, Kentucky; Corydon,
Indiana; Selestat, France; Norderstedt, Germany; Potenza, Italy;
and Prachinburi, Thailand. During 2005, we closed our Feistritz,
Austria facility, downsized our Norderstedt, Germany facility
and relocated certain assets from these two plants to our
facilities in Prachinburi, Thailand. We manufacture our lithium
battery separators at our facility in Charlotte, North Carolina
and have a finishing operation at our facility in Shanghai,
China. We manufacture our healthcare membranes and industrial
and specialty separation products at facilities in Wuppertal,
Germany and Charlotte, North Carolina.

In fiscal 2005, pro forma 2004 and fiscal 2003, we generated
revenues from customers outside the United States of
approximately 74%, 77% and 72%, respectively. We typically sell
our products in the currency of the country in which the
products are manufactured rather than the local currency of our
customers.

9

Table of Contents   

Our manufacturing facilities in North America accounted for 38%
of total sales for fiscal 2005, with facilities in Europe
accounting for 58% and facilities in Asia accounting for 4%. Our
foreign operations are, and any future foreign operations will
be, subject to certain risks that could materially affect our
sales, profits, cash flows and financial position. These risks
include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates,
inflation, economic or political instability, shipping delays,
changes in applicable laws and regulatory policies and various
trade restrictions, all of which could have a significant impact
on our ability to deliver products on a competitive and timely
basis. The future imposition of, or significant increases in the
level of, customs duties, import quotas or other trade
restrictions could also have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

We recently completed a significant multi-year expansion program
through construction of a new plant in Prachinburi, Thailand,
the opening of a new facility in Shanghai, China and expansions
of our Charlotte, North Carolina and Wuppertal, Germany plants.
These expansions increased our production capacity for our
lead-acid battery separators, lithium battery separators and
hemodialysis membranes, respectively. Our facilities have
plant-wide, real-time control and monitoring systems to ensure
all products meet customer specifications.

Manufacturing processes   

All of our manufacturing processes involve an extrusion process.
To produce
Liqui-Cel   
membrane contactors, hollow fibers are glued into a cartridge
form by extruding either a polyolefin resin or an epoxy adhesive
before final assembly into a finished module. To produce our
flat sheet and hollow fiber membranes, we use one of three basic
membrane processes that begin with an extrusion step. These
include phase separation (thermally-induced, solvent-induced, or
reaction-induced),  dry stretch  ( Celgard 
process), and composite extrusion/extraction
( Daramic  process) processes. Each process, and its
resulting product properties, is well suited to the various
membrane requirements for our target markets.

Battery separators.  We manufacture
Daramic   ,
our principal lead-acid battery separator used in industrial and
automotive applications, using a composite extrusion/extraction
process. The process stages are fully automated, although the
process requires some handling as material is transferred from
stage to stage. Initially, an ultra-high molecular weight
polyethylene is mixed with porous silica and oil, which are
heated and extruded into a film. The film is passed through an
extraction bath to remove the excess oil from the silica pores
to create the proper microporosity and film stiffness prior to
drying. We manufacture our
DARAK   
industrial separator using a patented manufacturing process that
begins by saturating a polyester fleece with a modified phenolic
resin, which is then cross-linked, washed, dried, cured and cut
into single pieces in a continuous one-step process. The
reaction step produces the final microporous structure.

Similar to our
Daramic   
product, we begin the manufacture of lithium battery separators
with an extrusion step. However, no solvents or other additives
are used in conjunction with the polymer at extrusion (hence the
 dry  stretch process description). The same
 Celgard  process is used for producing
CELGARD   
flat sheet monolayer and proprietary trilayer separators.
Membrane microporosity is created during a thermal stretching
process. Some special coated and non-woven laminate products are
also manufactured for specialty battery and other applications.

Hemodialysis, blood oxygenation, and plasmapheresis
membranes.  Hollow fiber membranes produced for hemodialysis,
blood oxygenation and plasmapheresis are mainly produced using
phase separation processes. For these phase separation
processes, the polymer spinning solution is prepared by
dissolving the polymer in a solvent prior to extrusion. A porous
membrane is formed by separating the solvent and polymer phases
using temperature (thermally-induced), or a
 non-solvent  (solvent-induced), then the solvent
phase is extracted and the porous polymer membrane is dried. For
the blood oxygenation market, hollow fiber and flat sheet
membranes are also produced using our  dry stretch 
( Celgard ) process. We rely on the molecular behavior
of semi-crystalline polymers (polyolefins) to create the
microporous structure. By controlling the extrusion process
under which the film or fiber is formed, we create a crystalline
structure that allows the formation of microvoids in a
subsequent stretching step. Although we use different equipment
for the flat sheet and fiber products, the operating conditions
of temperature, stress, and line

10

Table of Contents   

speed are similar for both. After extrusion, our products can be
stored or immediately processed on annealing and stretching
lines that create the final porous form.

Competition 

Our markets are highly competitive. Our primary competitors in
the market for separators used in industrial and automotive
batteries are Entek International LLC ( Entek ) in
North America and Europe and Nippon Muki Co., Ltd. in Japan. In
addition, we have a number of smaller competitors in
South Korea, Indonesia, China and North America. In the
market for separators used in lithium batteries, we compete with
Asahi Kasei Corporation, Tonen Corporation (a subsidiary of
ExxonMobil) and Ube Industries Limited. In addition, we
have a number of smaller competitors elsewhere in Asia. For
filtration membranes used in healthcare applications, we compete
primarily with Fresenius Medical Care, Gambro, Asahi Medical
Corporation and Toyobo Co. Ltd.. Product innovation and
performance, quality, service, utility and cost are the primary
competitive factors, with technical support being highly valued
by the largest customers.

We believe that we are well positioned in our end-markets for
the following reasons:

We have developed significant proprietary manufacturing know-how
    by producing specialized products over many years that, in
    certain cases, we believe cannot be reproduced in the market
    and, in other cases, would be prohibitively expensive for a
    competitor to replicate. 

Most of our products require years of development and extensive
    testing and, in the case of our healthcare products, regulatory
    approval prior to the marketing of our customers  products. 

We have continually improved manufacturing efficiency and
    expanded capacity through equipment modifications, process
    improvement and capital expenditures. 

We believe we are one of the top three companies in global
    market share in most of our product lines as a result of the
    superior performance characteristics of our products, our
    well-known brands within the industries we serve and our ability
    to develop and manufacture new generations of value-added
    products at competitive costs. 

Our research and development team works closely with our
    customers, and we often partner with our customers on product
    development and end-use testing. As a result, many of our
    products have been customized to our customers 
    manufacturing and end-use specifications. In addition, we are
    often selected as a customer s exclusive supplier for our
    microporous membrane products. 

We produce a variety of separation and filtration products
    addressing niche end-markets, some of which provide us with a
    stable and recurring revenue base, while other end-markets
    provide us with strong growth potential. 

We are committed to innovation. We have introduced many of the
    major innovations in the market for separators for use in
    batteries, including the first polyethylene separator for
    lead-acid batteries and the first multilayer separator for
    lithium batteries. In addition, we have introduced major
    innovations within the healthcare market including the first
    membrane-based technology used for hemodialysis. 

We manufacture, market and service our products in 10 facilities
    throughout North America, Europe and Asia. By strategically
    positioning our manufacturing, sales and marketing and technical
    service personnel near our customers, we can respond to their
    needs more effectively and provide a higher level of service. 

We believe we have
     state-of -the-art
    manufacturing facilities and capabilities. 

Raw materials 

We employ a global purchasing strategy to achieve pricing
leverage on our purchases of major raw materials. The major
polyethylene and polypropylene resins we use are very
specialized petroleum-based products that are less affected by
commodity pricing cycles than other petroleum-based products. In
the event of future price increases for these major raw
materials, we believe that we will be able to pass these
increases to our customers. Some current supply contracts with
our major customers allow us to pass these costs to our
customers. The primary raw materials we use to manufacture most
of our products are

11

Table of Contents   

polyethylene and polypropylene resins, silica, paper, and oil.
Our major supplier of polyethylene resins is Ticona LLC and our
major suppliers of polypropylene resins are Exxon Chemical
Company (a subsidiary of ExxonMobil) and Fina (a subsidiary of
Total). Our major suppliers of silica are PPG Industries, Inc.,
Degussa A.G. and Acordis A.G., while our major supplier of oil
is Shell Chemical LP (a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/ Shell).

We believe that the loss of any one or more of our suppliers
would not have a long-term material adverse effect on us because
other manufacturers with whom we conduct business or have
conducted business in the past would be able to fulfill our
requirements. However, the loss of one of our key suppliers
could, in the short term, adversely affect our business until we
secure alternative supply arrangements. In addition, we cannot
assure you that any new supply arrangements we enter will have
terms as favorable as those contained in current supply
arrangements. We have never experienced any significant
disruptions in supply as a result of shortages in raw materials.

Seasonality 

Operations at our European production facilities are
traditionally subject to shutdowns during the month of August
each year for employee vacations. As a result, net income during
the third quarter of fiscal 2005 was, and during the third
quarter of any fiscal year in the future may be, lower than net
income in other quarters during the same fiscal year. In view of
the seasonal fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our
operating results for the third quarter of any fiscal year with
those of the other quarters during the same fiscal year may be
of limited relevance in predicting our future financial
performance.

Employees 

At December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately 1,800
employees worldwide. Hourly employees at seven of our 10
facilities are unionized and account for approximately 62% of
our total employees. These facilities were unionized prior to
our ownership; no facility has been unionized under our
ownership. We have historically had good relationships with our
unions, with no occurrences of any work stoppages. The following
summarizes those employees represented by unions as of
December 31, 2005:

Environmental matters 

We are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and
foreign environmental laws and regulations which govern, among
other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges and the
handling, storage disposal and release of wastes and hazardous
substances. It is our policy to comply with applicable
environmental requirements at all of our facilities. We are also
subject to laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA ),
that may impose liability retroactively and without fault for
releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at
 on-site  or
 off-site  locations.
From time to time, we have identified environmental compliance
issues at our facilities. For more information, see
 Item 3. Legal Proceedings  below.

We are not aware of any material off-site releases for which we
may be liable under CERCLA or any other environmental or health
and safety law. We already have conducted some cleanup of the
 on-site 

12

Table of Contents   

releases at some facilities and we will be conducting additional
cleanups of  on-site 
contamination at other facilities under regulatory supervision
or voluntarily. Costs for such work and related measures (such
as eliminating sources of contamination) could be substantial,
particularly at our Wuppertal, Germany and Potenza, Italy
facilities. We have established reserves for environmental
liabilities of approximately $25.6 million as of
December 31, 2005. However, we do not anticipate that the
remediation activities will disrupt operations at our facilities
or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations. In addition, we have
asserted claims under an indemnity from Acordis A.G. and Akzo
Nobel ( Akzo ), the prior owners of Membrana GmbH,
that is expected to provide indemnification of a substantial
percentage of anticipated environmental costs at Wuppertal. The
amount receivable under the indemnification agreement at
December 31, 2005 was $17.4 million. To date we have
not had any significant disagreement with Akzo over its
environmental indemnity obligations to us.

Intellectual property rights 

We consider our patents, patent licenses and trademarks, in the
aggregate, to be important to our business and seek to protect
this proprietary know-how in part through United States and
foreign patent and trademark registrations. Certain of our
patents are also important individually. In addition, we
maintain certain trade secrets for which, in order to maintain
the confidentiality of such trade secrets, we have not sought
patent protection.

Item 1.A.  
     
     Risk Factors  

Our business faces many risks. As such, prospective investors
and shareholders should carefully consider and evaluate all of
the risk factors described below. These risk factors may change
from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or
superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in periodic
reports on
Form  10-Q  and
Form  10-K  that we
file with the SEC in the future. These risks include the
following:

Risks Related to Our Company   

Our substantial indebtedness could harm our ability to react
    to changes to our business or market developments and prevent us
    from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness.  

As a result of the transactions related to the purchase of
Polypore, Inc. by PP Acquisition Corporation, our indirect,
wholly owned subsidiary (the  Transactions ), we have
incurred a significant amount of indebtedness. As of
December 31, 2005, our consolidated indebtedness, including
the capital lease obligation, was approximately
$1,002.8 million, excluding unused commitments of
$90.0 million under our revolving loan facility, and our
other liabilities were approximately $268.4 million. For
fiscal 2005, our interest expense was $82.0 million.

Our substantial level of current indebtedness, as well as any
additional indebtedness we may draw under the unused portions of
our senior secured credit facilities, increases the possibility
that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when
due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in
respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial debt could increase
our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse
competitive and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility
to plan for, or to react to, changes in our business and in the
industry in which we operate. This limitation could place us at
a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have
less debt and more cash to insulate their operations from market
downturns and to finance new business opportunities.

Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate
    risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase
    significantly.  

At December 31, 2005, we have variable rate debt of
approximately $367.0 million and we are not a party to any
interest rate hedging agreements As a result, a modest interest
rate increase could result in a substantial increase in interest
expense. Our earnings may not be sufficient to allow us to meet
any such increases in interest rate expense and to pay principal
and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we
do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance
all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money
or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will
be able to do.

13

Table of Contents   

To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant
    amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many
    factors beyond our control.  

Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our
indebtedness and to fund our operations will depend on our
ability to generate cash in the future. However, our business
may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations for a
variety of reasons, including those mentioned elsewhere in this
 Risk Factors  section. Without sufficient cash flow,
future borrowings may not be available to us under
Polypore s senior secured credit facilities in amounts
sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund
our other liquidity or capital needs. If we cannot generate
sufficient cash to service our debt, we will have to take such
actions as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling
assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking
additional equity capital. Any of these actions may not be
effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In
addition, the indentures (the  Indentures ) for
Polypore s 8.75% senior subordinated notes and our
10.5% senior discount notes (collectively, the
 Notes ) and the credit agreement for our senior
secured credit facilities may restrict us from adopting any of
these alternatives.

The terms of Polypore s senior secured credit facilities
    and the Indentures may restrict our current and future
    operations, particularly our ability to respond to market
    changes or to take certain actions.  

Polypore s senior secured credit facilities and the
Indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose
significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may
limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term
best interests. For example, Polypore s senior secured
credit facilities include covenants restricting, among other
things, our ability to incur, assume or permit to exist
additional indebtedness or guarantees; engage in mergers,
acquisitions and other business combinations; or amend or
otherwise alter terms of our indebtedness, including our Notes,
and other material agreements. Polypore s senior secured
credit facilities also include financial covenants, including
requirements that we maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio
and a maximum leverage ratio.

The Indentures also contain numerous operating and financial
covenants including, among other things, restrictions on our
ability to: incur or guarantee additional debt; issue preferred
stock of restricted subsidiaries; pay dividends or make other
equity distributions; or purchase or redeem capital stock. These
financial covenants also include a requirement that we not
exceed certain maximum aggregate capital expenditures.

A breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply
with financial covenants could result in a default under
Polypore s senior secured credit facilities or the Notes.
If any such default occurs, the lenders and the holders of the
Notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together
with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to
be immediately due and payable. The lenders also have the right
in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to
provide further borrowings and to proceed against all collateral
granted to them to secure the debt. If collateral (such as
available cash) is repossessed by the lenders or holders of the
Notes, we will be unable to access the capital and other
resources necessary to operate our business and the Company
could incur immediate and significant losses.

Polypore International is the sole obligor of the
    10.5% senior discount notes and our subsidiaries do not
    guarantee the obligations under, and do not have any obligation
    with respect to, such indebtedness.  

Polypore International is a holding company and does not have
any material business assets or operations. All of our
operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and,
therefore, we are and will continue to be dependent on the cash
flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Furthermore,
we are the sole obligor of the 10.5% senior discount notes,
and our subsidiaries do not guarantee our obligations under, and
do not have any obligation with respect to, such indebtedness.
Also, the terms of the senior secured credit facilities and the
indenture governing the 8.75% senior subordinated notes
significantly restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends
and otherwise transferring assets to us. In addition, the
10.5% senior discount notes are effectively subordinated to
all existing and future indebtedness and liabilities of our
subsidiaries (including trade credit, the 8.75% senior
subordinated notes and any indebtedness incurred under the
secured credit facilities). The agreements governing the current
and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries and our dependence
on their cash flow may impede us from funding scheduled interest
and

14

Table of Contents   

principal payments on the 10.5% senior discount notes when
due, which could in turn impair our financial condition.

Because a majority of our employees are represented under
    collective bargaining agreements, any employee slowdowns,
    strikes or failure to renew our collective bargaining agreements
    could disrupt our business.  

Approximately 62% of our employees are represented under
collective bargaining agreements. A majority of those employees
are located in Italy, France or Germany and are represented
under industry-wide agreements that are subject to national and
local government regulations. Many of these collective
bargaining agreements must be renewed annually. Labor unions
also represent our employees in Owensboro, Kentucky and Corydon,
Indiana. The collective bargaining agreement covering workers at
the Corydon facility expires in January 2007 and the agreement
covering the workers at the Owensboro facility expires in April
2008.

We may not be able to maintain constructive relationships with
these labor unions. We may not be able to successfully negotiate
new collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms in
the future. The loss of a substantial number of these employees
or a prolonged labor dispute could disrupt our business. Any
such disruption could in turn reduce our revenue from sales,
increase our costs to bring products to market and result in
significant losses.

We generate most of our revenue from manufacturing products
    that are used in a wide variety of industries and the potential
    for product liability exposure for our products could be
    significant.  

We manufacture a wide variety of products that are used in
healthcare and consumer applications. Several of these products
are used in medical devices that some consumers require in order
to sustain their lives. As a result, we may face exposure to
product liability claims in the event that the failure of our
products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury
and/or death. In addition, if any of our products are, or are
alleged to be, defective, we may be required to make warranty
payments or to participate in a recall involving those products.

Consequently, end-users of our products may look to us for
contribution when faced with product recalls, product liability
or warranty claims. The future costs associated with defending
product liability claims or providing product warranties could
be material and we may experience material losses in the future
as a result. A successful product liability claim brought
against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a
requirement to participate in any product recall could
substantially reduce our available cash from operations. Reduced
cash could in turn reduce our profits or impair our financial
condition.

Our operations outside the United States pose risks to our
    business that are not present with our domestic business.  

Our manufacturing facilities in North America accounted for 38%
of total sales for fiscal 2005, with facilities in Europe
accounting for 58% and facilities in Asia accounting for 4%.
Typically, we sell our products in the currency of the country
where the manufacturing facility that produced the products is
located. In addition, as part of our growth and acquisition
strategy, we may expand our operations in these or other foreign
countries. Our foreign operations are, and any future foreign
operations will be, subject to certain risks that are unique to
doing business in foreign countries. These risks include
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation,
economic or political instability, shipping delays, changes in
applicable laws and regulatory policies and various trade
restrictions. All of these risks could have a negative impact on
our ability to deliver products to customers on a competitive
and timely basis. This could reduce or impair our sales,
profits, cash flows and financial position. The future
imposition of, or significant increases in the level of, customs
duties, import quotas or other trade restrictions could also
increase our costs and reduce our profits.

We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental
    laws and violations of such laws may increase our costs or
    require us to change certain business practices.  

Because we manufacture a wide variety of healthcare and other
consumer-related products, we use and generate a variety of
chemicals and other hazardous by-products in our manufacturing
operations. As a result, we are subject to a broad range of
federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and

15

Table of Contents   

regulations. These environmental laws govern, among other
things, air emissions, wastewater discharges and the handling,
storage and release of wastes and hazardous substances. Such
laws and regulations can be complex and change often. We
regularly incur costs to comply with environmental requirements,
and such costs could increase significantly with changes in
legal requirements or their interpretation or enforcement. Some
of our manufacturing facilities have been the subject of actions
to enforce environmental requirements. We could incur
substantial costs, including
 clean-up  costs, fines
and sanctions and third-party property damage or personal injury
claims, as a result of violations of environmental laws. Failure
to comply with environmental requirements could also result in
enforcement actions that materially limit or otherwise affect
the operations of the facilities involved.

Under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or
operator of a environmentally contaminated site may be held
liable for the entire cost of investigation, removal or
remediation of hazardous materials at such property. This
liability could result whether or not the owner or operator knew
of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous
materials.

Contaminants have been detected at some of our present
facilities, principally in connection with historical
operations. Investigations and/or clean-ups of these
contaminants have been undertaken by us or by former owners of
the sites. We are unaware of material offsite contamination at
any of the sites. The costs of investigating and remediating
environmental conditions at some of our facilities may be
substantial. Although we believe we are entitled to contractual
indemnification for a portion of these costs, if we do not
receive expected indemnification payments, or if our remediation
costs are higher than expected, our exposure to these costs
would increase. This exposure could reduce our cash available
for operations, consume valuable management time, and reduce our
profits or impair our financial condition.

We anticipate additional investigations and cleanups of onsite
contamination under regulatory supervision or voluntarily at
some of our sites. In addition, the imposition of more stringent
cleanup requirements, the discovery of additional contaminants
or the discovery of material offsite contamination at or from
one or more of our facilities could result in significant
additional costs to us.

If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual
    property, we could lose a significant competitive advantage.  

Our success with our products depends, in part, on our ability
to protect our unique technologies and products against
competitive pressure and to defend our intellectual property
rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual
property rights, competitors may manufacture and market products
similar to ours. We may not receive patents for any of our
patent applications and our existing or future patents that we
receive or license may not provide competitive advantages for
our products. Our competitors may challenge, invalidate or avoid
the application of any existing or future patents, trademarks,
or other intellectual property rights that we receive or
license. In addition, patent rights may not prevent our
competitors from developing, using or selling products that are
similar or functionally equivalent to our products. The loss of
protection for our intellectual property could reduce the market
value of our products, reduce product sales, and lower our
profits or impair our financial condition.

Due to the unique products that we produce and the particular
    industry in which we operate, the loss of our senior management
    could disrupt our business.  

Our senior management is important to the success of our
business. There is significant competition for executive
personnel with unique experience in the separation and
filtration membrane industry. As a result of this unique need
and the competition for a limited pool of industry-based
executive experience, we may not be able to retain our existing
senior management. In addition, we many not be able to fill new
positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or
attract additional senior management personnel. All of our
executive officers are free to pursue other business
opportunities (other than our chief executive officer and vice
chairman, who are bound by non-compete provisions of their
employment agreements), including those that may compete with
us. The loss of any member of our senior management without
retaining a suitable replacement (either from inside or outside
our existing management team) could disrupt our business.

16

Table of Contents   

We may pursue future acquisitions. If we incur contingent
    liabilities and expenses or additional debt in connection with
    future acquisitions or if we cannot effectively integrate newly
    acquired operations, our business could be disrupted.  

A significant portion of our historical growth has occurred
through acquisitions and we may enter into acquisitions in the
future. Acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired
will not perform in accordance with expectations and that
business judgments concerning the value, strengths and
weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. Future
acquisitions would likely result in the incurrence of debt and
contingent liabilities. Such acquisitions could also increase
our interest and amortization expenses as well as periodic
impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible
assets. Acquisitions could also result in significant charges
relating to integration costs.

We may not be able to integrate successfully any business we
acquire into our existing business. Any acquired businesses may
not be profitable or as profitable as we had expected. The
successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability
to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. The
successful integration of future acquisitions may also require
substantial attention from our senior management and the
management of the acquired business. This could decrease the
time that they have to service and attract customers and develop
new products and services. In addition, because we may actively
pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may
encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays. Such
expenses and delays could include difficulties in employing
sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management
oversight. Our inability to complete the integration of new
businesses in a timely and orderly manner could increase costs,
lower profit and ultimately disrupt our business.

We have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets,
    which may never generate the returns we expect.  

As a result of acquisitions, our net identifiable intangible
assets at December 31, 2005 were approximately 16.3% of our
total assets. Such assets include trademarks and trade names,
license agreements and technology acquired in acquisitions.
Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair
value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was
approximately 41.6% of our total assets at December 31,
2005. Both goodwill and identifiable intangible assets increased
substantially as a result of the Transactions.

Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair
value on the date of acquisition and, under Financial Accounting
Standards Board Statement No. 142, are reviewed at least
annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other
things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired
business, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in
applicable laws or regulations. These changes include changes
that restrict the activities of the acquired business and a
variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment
must be written off. We may never realize the full value of our
intangible assets. Any future determination requiring the
write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would
reduce our profits for the fiscal period in which the write-off
occurs.

Warburg Pincus controls us.  

Affiliates and designees of Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII,
L.P. and Warburg Pincus International Partners, L.P.
(collectively,  Warburg Pincus ) control Polypore
International. Warburg Pincus is able to cause the election of
all of the members of our board of directors, cause the
appointment of new management and cause the approval of any
action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including
amendment of our certificate of incorporation and mergers or
sales of substantially all of our assets. The directors elected
by Warburg Pincus are able to make decisions affecting our
capital structure, including decisions to issue additional
capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and declare
dividends. In addition, Warburg Pincus may have an interest in
pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other
transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity
investments, even though such transactions might involve risks
to other equity holders or debt holders. Furthermore, Warburg
Pincus may in the future own businesses that directly compete
with ours. For information concerning the composition of our
management team, see  Item 10. Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant. 

17

Table of Contents   

Risks Related to Our Industry   

Because the specialized markets in which we sell our products
    are highly competitive, we may have difficulty growing our
    business year after year.  

The markets in which we sell our products are highly
competitive. Many of these markets require highly specialized
products that are time and cost intensive to design and develop.
In addition, innovative products, quality, service, utility,
cost and technical support are the primary competitive factors
in the separation and filtration membrane industry. While we
only compete against a small number of competitors in each of
our markets, some of these competitors are much larger companies
that have greater financial, technological, manufacturing and
marketing resources than we do. Many of these competitors are
also better established as suppliers to the markets that we
serve. As a result, a reduction in overall demand or increased
costs to design and produce our products within these markets
would likely further increase competition between us and other
producers of membranes. This increased competition could cause
us to reduce our prices, which could lower our profit margins
and impair our ability to grow the Company year after year.

We must continue to invest significant resources in
    developing innovative products in order to maintain a
    competitive edge in the highly specialized markets in which we
    operate.  

Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to
maintain our technological capabilities and to continue to
identify, develop and commercialize innovative products for the
separation and filtration membrane industry. For example,
products for some consumer electronics applications have a short
lifecycle and require constant development. If we fail to
continue to develop products for those markets or to keep pace
with technological developments by our competitors generally, we
may lose market share which could result in reduced revenue and
impair our financial condition.

If we do not successfully manage the transition in
    hemodialysis from cellulosic to synthetic filtration membranes,
    our revenues and profits could decline.  

Hemodialysis filtration membranes are fabricated from two
classes of materials: cellulosic and synthetic. Historically,
most filtration membranes for dialyzers have been manufactured
with cellulosic materials, but in recent years hemodialysis
market demand has shifted rapidly to synthetic membranes. We
expect the decline in cellulosic demand to continue and to
likely outpace synthetic revenue gains during the near term. If
we do not successfully manage the transition from cellulosic to
synthetic filtration membranes, including the conversion of
existing cellulosic customers to our synthetic membrane
products, our revenues and profits could decline.

The loss of only a few of our large volume customers could
    reduce our revenues and profits.  

Our products are often sold to a relatively small number of
large volume customers. For example, one of our customers, Exide
Technologies, represented approximately 17% of our sales in
fiscal 2005. As a result, a decrease in business from, or the
loss of, any large volume customer such as Exide could reduce
our revenues and our profits.

Vertical integration by our customers of the production of
    our products into their own manufacturing processes could reduce
    our revenues and our profits.  

Our future revenues and profits will depend to a significant
extent upon whether our customers choose in the future to
manufacture the separation and filtration membranes used in
their products instead of purchasing these components from us.
For example, in the healthcare industry, many of the filtration
membranes used in dialyzers are produced by the manufacturers of
the dialyzers themselves. If any of our existing customers
choose to vertically integrate the production of their products
in such a manner, the loss of sales to these customers could
reduce our revenues and our profits.

Increases in prices for raw materials or the loss of key
    supplier contracts could reduce our profit margins.  

The primary raw materials we use in the manufacture of most of
our products are polyethylene and polypropylene resins, silica,
paper and oil. In fiscal 2005, raw materials accounted for
approximately 40.2%

18

Table of Contents   

of our cost of sales. Although our major customer contracts
generally allow us to pass increased costs on to our customers,
we may not be able to pass on all raw material price increases
to our customers in each case or without delay. The loss of any
of our key suppliers could disrupt our business until we secure
alternative supply arrangements. Furthermore, any new supply
agreement we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those
contained in our current supply arrangements.

Item 1B.  
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments  

None

Item 2.  
     
     Properties  

Our manufacturing facilities are strategically located to serve
our customers globally:

(1)  
     
    Excludes leased sales offices in Shanghai, China; Tokyo, Japan;
    and Sao Paulo, Brazil. 

(2)  
     
    Polypore owns the land and building and subleases the
    manufacturing equipment at this facility. 

(3)  
     
    Polypore owns the equipment and leases the facility. 

During 2005, we closed our Energy Storage facility in Feistritz,
Austria and transferred the assets to our facility in
Prachinburi, Thailand.

Between the existing capacity at the facilities listed in the
table above, planned productivity gains and planned capital
expenditure for fiscal 2006, we believe we will have sufficient
capacity available to meet our needs for fiscal 2006.

Item 3.  
     
     Legal Proceedings  

We are currently a party to various claims and legal actions
that arise in the ordinary course of business. We believe such
claims and legal actions, individually and in the aggregate,
will not have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition or results of operations.

19

Table of Contents   

Item 4.  
     
     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

None

Part II 

Item 5.  
     
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

Warburg Pincus and certain members of management own, directly
or indirectly, all of the equity securities of Polypore
International. There is no established public trading market for
our equity securities.

We did not declare or pay any dividends on our common stock in
fiscal 2005, and we do not expect to pay any such dividends in
2006. The indenture relating to our $300.0 million
aggregate principal amount of
10  1  / 2
 % senior discount notes due 2012 contains negative
covenants that restrict or limit our ability to among other
things, declare dividends, make payments on or redeem or
repurchase capital stock.

Item 6.  
     
     Selected Financial Data  

The following table presents selected historical consolidated
financial data of Polypore International for the year ended
December 31, 2005 (Successor), the period from May 2,
2004 through January 1, 2005 (Successor), the period from
January 4, 2004 through May 1, 2004 (Predecessor), and
each of the preceding three years ended January 3, 2004
(Predecessor). The selected historical consolidated financial
data has been derived from Polypore International s
(Successor) audited consolidated financial statements for the
year ended December 31, 2005 and the period from
May 2, 2004 through January 1, 2005, and Polypore,
Inc. s (Predecessor) audited consolidated financial
statements for the period from January 4, 2004 through
May 1, 2004 and each of the preceding three years ended
January 3, 2004 (Pre-Transactions). The selected historical
consolidated financial data has been derived from Polypore
International s audited consolidated financial statements.

On May 13, 2004, Polypore, Inc. and its shareholders
consummated a stock purchase agreement with PP Acquisition
Corporation, our indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, pursuant to
which PP Acquisition Corporation purchased all of the
outstanding shares of Polypore, Inc. s capital stock. At
the time of the closing of the acquisition, PP Acquisition
Corporation merged with and into Polypore, Inc. with Polypore,
Inc. as the surviving corporation. For more information on this
transaction, see  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  below.

On February 28, 2002, we acquired all of the outstanding
shares of Membrana GmbH for an aggregate cash purchase price,
including acquisition related costs, of approximately
$117.0 million. On November 16, 2001, we acquired all
of the outstanding shares of Separatorenerzeugung GmbH
( Jungfer ) for an aggregate cash purchase price of
approximately $10.2 million and the assumption of
approximately $5.9 million in debt. The results of
operations of Jungfer and Membrana are included in Polypore
International s consolidated financial statements from the
date of each acquisition.

20

Table of Contents   

The information presented below should be read together with
 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the
consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included
in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data .

21

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    For purposes of computing the ratio of earnings to fixed
    charges, earnings consist of earnings before income taxes plus
    fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest expense,
    amortization of debt issuance costs and the portion of rental
    expense that management believes is representative of the
    interest component of rental expense. 

Item 7.  
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  

The following discussions of our financial condition and
results of operations should be read together with
 Item 6. Selected Financial Data  and our audited
consolidated financial statements and the related notes included
in  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.  

Overview 

We are a leading worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer
of highly specialized polymer-based membranes used in separation
and filtration processes in terms of market share. Our products
and technologies target specialized applications and markets
that require the removal or separation of various materials from
liquids, with such materials ranging in size from microscopic to
those visible to the human eye. We manage our operations under
two business segments: energy storage and separations media. The
energy storage segment, which accounts for approximately
two-thirds of our total sales, produces different types of
membranes that function as separators in lead-acid batteries
used in transportation and industrial applications and lithium
batteries used in electronics applications. The separations
media segment, which accounts for approximately one-third of our
total sales, produces membranes used in various healthcare and
industrial applications, including hemodialysis, blood
oxygenation, ultrapure water filtration, degasification and
other specialty applications.

We serve markets with an attractive mix of both stability and
growth. Our lead-acid battery separators serve the stable and
predictable market for transportation and industrial
applications, with approximately 80% of sales for transportation
applications coming from replacement products in the
aftermarket. This replacement market is primarily driven by the
growing size of the worldwide fleet of motor vehicles, which
according to  Ward s Motor Vehicles Facts and
Figures , has been growing approximately 3% per year.
According to industry analysts, sales in the rechargeable
lithium battery market are expected to grow at a compound annual
growth rate of approximately 16% through 2011, driven by growth
in underlying markets for portable electronic products
(primarily mobile telephones and laptop computers) and the
displacement of nickel-based battery technologies. In our
primary healthcare end-market, hemodialysis, industry analysts
estimate that the number of end-stage renal disease, or
 ESRD,  patients has been growing 7% per year
over the last twenty years, while the frequent dialysis
treatments required to treat the disease create a stable and
recurring demand for dialyzers and our dialyzer membranes. In
our industrial and specialty filtration markets, ever-increasing
demand for higher-purity process streams is driving high growth
rates in a variety of end-markets, including semiconductor and
microelectronics manufacturing, food and beverage processing and
water purification.

Our markets are highly specialized, and we generally compete
with only a few other companies. We enjoy longstanding
relationships and collaborative partnerships with a diverse base
of customers who are among

22

Table of Contents   

the leaders in their respective markets. These relationships are
strengthened by our ability to develop highly technical membrane
products that meet the precise and evolving needs of our
customers. Most of our products require years of cooperative
development with customers, extensive testing and, in some
applications, regulatory approval prior to the introduction of
our customers  products to the market. Although many of our
products are critical functional components in our
customers  end products, they typically represent a
relatively small percentage of the final delivered cost. In many
of our markets we are often selected as the customer s
exclusive supplier.

We serve our customers globally with strategically located
manufacturing facilities in the major geographic markets of
North America, Europe and Asia.

Historically, our growth has been both organic and through
acquisitions. In February 2002, we acquired Membrana GmbH, a
German corporation, from Acordis A.G., or  Acordis, 
to expand our presence in attractive healthcare and specialty
filtration markets. Almost every process stream has a filtration
application, while many end products require materials
possessing specialized filtration and separation functions. The
large and extremely fragmented filtration and separation market
presents an opportunity for further consolidation into our
already diverse markets and leading platform of technologies.

Critical accounting policies 

Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that
can have a significant impact on the presentation of our
financial condition and results of operations, and that require
the use of complex and subjective estimates based on past
experience and management s judgment. Because of
uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may
differ from these estimates. Below are those policies that we
believe are critical to the understanding of our operating
results and financial condition. Management has discussed the
development and selection of these critical accounting policies
with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. For
additional accounting policies, see Note 2 of the
consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this
Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

Allowance for doubtful accounts   

Accounts receivable are primarily composed of amounts owed to us
through our operating activities and are presented net of an
allowance for doubtful accounts. We establish an allowance for
doubtful accounts based upon factors surrounding the credit risk
of specific customers, historical trends and other information.
We charge accounts receivables off against our allowance for
doubtful accounts when we deem them to be uncollectible on a
specific identification basis. The determination of the amount
of the allowance for doubtful accounts is subject to judgment
and estimated by management. If circumstances or economic
conditions deteriorate, we may need to increase the allowance
for doubtful accounts.

Impairment of Intangibles and Goodwill   

Identified intangible assets are reviewed for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount may not be recoverable. In accordance with FASB
Statement No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 ( FAS 142 ), goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets not amortized, but are subject to an annual
impairment test based on cash flow projections and fair value
estimates. The determination of undiscounted cash flows is based
on the Company s strategic plans and historical results
adjusted to reflect current and anticipated operating
conditions. Estimating future cash flows requires significant
judgment by us in such areas as future economic conditions,
industry-specific conditions, product pricing and necessary
capital expenditures. The use of different assumptions would
increase or decrease the estimated value of future cash flows
and recognition of an impairment loss might be required.

Pension and other postretirement benefits   

Certain assumptions are used in the calculation of the actuarial
valuation of our defined benefit pension plans and other post
retirement benefits. These assumptions include the weighted
average discount rate, rates of increase in compensation levels,
expected long-term rates of return on assets and increases or
trends in healthcare costs. If actual results are less favorable
than those projected by management, we may be required to
recognize additional expense and liabilities.

23

Table of Contents   

Environmental Matters   

In connection with the Transactions, we identified and accrued
for potential environmental contamination at our manufacturing
facility in Potenza, Italy. In connection with the acquisition
of Membrana in 2002, we recorded a reserve for environmental
obligations for costs to remediate known environmental issues
and operational upgrades as a matter of good manufacturing
practices or in order to remain in compliance with local
regulations.

We accrue for environmental obligations when such expenditures
are probable and reasonably estimable. The amount of liability
recorded is based on currently available information, including
the progress of remedial investigations, current status of
discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the method and
extent of remediation, presently enacted laws and existing
technology. Accruals for estimated losses from environmental
obligations are adjusted as further information develops or
circumstances change. If actual results are less favorable than
those projected by management, we may be required to recognize
additional expense and liabilities.

We have indemnification agreements for certain environmental
matters from Acordis and Akzo, the prior owners of Membrana
GmbH. Recoveries of environmental costs from other parties are
recognized as assets when their receipt is deemed probable. We
have recorded a receivable with regard to the Akzo
indemnification agreement. If indemnification claims cannot be
enforced against Acordis and Akzo, we may be required to reduce
the amount of indemnification receivables recorded.

Results of operations 

The information presented below for the pro forma fiscal year
2004 has been derived by combining the statement of operations
for the period from January 4, 2004 through May 1,
2004 with the period from May 2, 2004 through
January 1, 2005 and applying the pro forma adjustments for
the Transactions. The pro forma results of operations for the
fiscal year 2004 include adjustments for depreciation,
amortization and interest expense associated with the
Transaction and the related income tax effects of these
adjustments. The pro forma results exclude non-recurring costs
of $5.3 million for the write-off of in-process research
and development costs and $19.0 million for the sale of
inventory that was written up in purchase accounting for the
Transactions.

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated,
certain historical and pro forma operating data of Polypore
International in amount and as a percentage of net sales:

24

Table of Contents   

(1)  
     
    Unaudited pro forma financial information as if the Transactions
    had occurred on January 4, 2004, the first day of the year
    ending January 1, 2005. 

Net sales.  Net sales for fiscal 2005 were
$432.5 million, a decrease of $57.9 million, or 11.8%,
from pro forma fiscal 2004. For the energy storage segment, net
sales for fiscal 2005 were $309.4 million, a decrease of
$23.5 million, or 7.1%, from pro forma fiscal 2004. Lithium
battery separator sales for fiscal 2005 decreased from pro forma
2004 by $26.4 million due to lower sales volume and average
sales prices. The decline in rechargeable lithium battery
separator volumes is due to unusually strong demand in China
that occurred during the first half of 2004. In the second half
of 2004 and early 2005, demand in China slowed down and we
experienced a decline in ordering patterns. Although the lithium
battery market remains volatile, we saw an improvement in
rechargeable lithium battery market conditions, especially in
China, beginning late in the first quarter of 2005. We also
experienced a decline in disposable lithium separator sales
volumes, especially for military applications as the need for
armed force troop mobility has declined from 2004. Average sales
prices have declined in 2005 due to increased capacity in the
rechargeable lithium battery separator market and a higher
portion of sales to our larger customers, who receive lower
average prices. Lead acid battery separator sales increased
slightly from the prior year. The $4.0 million increase was
due to a 3.4% increase in sales volume and favorable foreign
currency movements, offset somewhat by a 2% decrease in the
average selling price of lead acid batteries due to normal
fluctuations in customer and product mix. The positive impact of
the dollar/euro exchange rate contributed $1.6 million to
the increase in sales. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the
Company implemented a global price increase to offset continuing
raw material and energy cost increases. The impact of the price
increase will primarily impact 2006 revenues.

For the separations media segment, net sales for fiscal 2005
were $123.1 million, a decrease of $34.4 million, or
21.8%, from pro forma fiscal 2004. The decrease in separations
media sales was due to the loss of a hemodialysis customer
during the third quarter of 2004 and a decline in cellulosic
membrane demand. Synthetic membrane sales increased slightly
from the prior year, as higher sales volumes were offset by
lower average selling prices. Sales volumes of synthetic
membranes increased 21% as we expanded our customer base and
product offerings. The decline in average sales prices was due
to a higher portion of sales to our larger customers, who
receive lower average prices. While positive developments in our
synthetic membrane business provide promise for the future, we
expect the decline in cellulosic demand to continue and to
likely outpace synthetic revenue gains during the near term. In
response to the decline in cellulosic demand, we are in the
process of obtaining firm sales commitments from our customers
for their future cellulosic membrane needs. Separations media
net sales include $1.3 million from the positive impact of
the dollar/euro exchange rate.

25

Table of Contents   

Gross Profit.  Gross profit for fiscal 2005 was
$150.2 million, a decrease of $26.6 million, or 15.0%,
from pro forma fiscal 2004. Gross profit as a percent of sales
decreased to 34.7% in fiscal 2005 from 36.1% in the prior year.
For the energy storage segment, gross profit for fiscal 2005 was
$115.1 million, a decrease of $11.4 million, or 9.0%,
from pro forma fiscal 2004. Gross profit in the energy storage
segment as a percent of sales decreased to 37.2% in fiscal 2005
from 38.0%. The decrease was the result of lower production
volumes of lithium separators, a change in product mix and
higher depreciation expense. The decrease in production volumes
for lithium battery separators resulted in higher production
costs per unit as fixed costs were applied to lower production
volumes. Raw material and energy cost increases have to date
largely been offset by internal cost saving actions. Price
increases implemented during the fourth quarter of 2005 will
also offset continuing raw material and energy cost increases
during 2006.

For the separations media segment, gross profit for fiscal 2005
was $35.1 million, a decrease of $15.2 million, or
30.2%, from pro forma fiscal 2004. Gross profit in the
separations media segment as a percent of sales decreased to
28.5% in fiscal 2005 from 31.9%. The decline was due to the
decrease in production volumes, resulting in higher production
costs per unit as fixed costs were applied to lower production
volumes. After we have determined our customers  needs for
cellulosic membranes, we will develop appropriate production
plans and determine if we will scale back or stop production of
cellulosic membranes.

Selling,general and administrative expenses.  Selling,
general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2005 were
$75.5 million, a decrease of $4.7 million, or 5.9%,
from pro forma fiscal 2004. The decrease was due primarily to
lower expenses in connection with cost reduction measures.

Interest expense, net.  Interest expense, net was
$82.0 million for fiscal 2005, an increase of
$21.1 million from pro forma fiscal 2004. The increase in
interest expense is attributable to the issuance of the
10.5% senior discount notes in October 2004 and the higher
interest rates on our variable rate term loans, offset somewhat
by the impact of lower debt balances due to the
$45.0 million in prepayments on our term loans during 2005.
On December 19, 2005, interest rates on our variable rate
term loans were increased in connection with an amendment to our
credit agreement. See  Liquidity and Capital
Resources  below.

Income taxes, net.  Income taxes as a percentage of income
before income taxes for fiscal 2005 was 74.6%, as compared to
the statutory rate of 38.0% for pro forma fiscal 2004. The
income tax expense recorded in the financial statements differs
from the Federal statutory income tax rate due to a variety of
factors, including state income taxes, the mix of income between
U.S. and foreign jurisdictions taxed at varying rates, certain
export sales which are excluded from taxable income and various
changes in estimates of permanent differences and valuation
allowances. In 2005, the impact of permanent differences on the
effective tax rate is exacerbated by the relatively low
consolidated income before income taxes.

Net sales.  Pro forma net sales for fiscal 2004 were
$490.4 million, an increase of $49.3 million, or
11.2%, from fiscal 2003. For the energy storage segment, pro
forma net sales for fiscal 2004 were $332.9 million, an
increase of $37.6 million, or 12.7%, from fiscal 2003. The
increase in energy storage sales was due to higher sales for
both the lithium and lead-acid battery markets. Lithium battery
separator sales increased by $14.6 million for fiscal 2004,
as compared to fiscal 2003, due to the completed expansion of
our manufacturing capacity during fiscal 2003. Our manufacturing
capacity was expanded in fiscal 2003 in order to meet the
increased demand for lithium battery separators, primarily in
China, due to the continued growth in electronic battery
applications for cell phones and laptop computers. Our growth in
lithium battery separators occurred in the first half of the
year and exceeded expected long-term market growth rates. We
experienced a decline in ordering patterns in the second half of
the year as battery manufacturers, principally in China,
decreased the level of inventory they maintain. Lead-acid
battery separator sales improved $18.7 million due to an
increase in sales volume and favorable foreign currency
movements, offset somewhat by lower average selling prices.
Sales volume increased revenues by $11.8 million and was
associated with market growth and increased market share at a
key account. The decline in average sales prices associated with
a market shift to thinner separator products resulted in a
$5.6 million decline in revenues. The positive impact of
the dollar/euro exchange rate contributed $12.5 million to
sales growth.

26

Table of Contents   

For the separations media segment, pro forma net sales for
fiscal 2004 were $157.5 million, an increase of
$11.7 million, or 8.0%, from fiscal 2003. The increase in
separations media sales was due to the positive impact of the
dollar/euro exchange rate of $14.4 million and growth in
specialty and industrial products, offset by a $6.9 million
decline in sales of healthcare products. The decline in
healthcare products was primarily due to the loss of a
hemodialysis customer that made the decision to outsource the
manufacturing of its dialyzers to another company that does not
currently source membranes from us.

Gross Profit.  Pro forma gross profit for fiscal 2004 was
$176.8 million, an increase of $21.4 million, or
13.8%, from fiscal 2003. Pro forma gross profit as a percent of
sales for fiscal 2004 increased to 36.1% from 35.2% in the prior
year. For the energy storage segment, pro forma gross profit for
fiscal 2004 was $126.5 million, an increase of
$19.8 million, or 18.6%, from the prior year. Pro forma
gross profit in the energy storage segment as a percent of sales
for fiscal 2004 increased to 38.0% from 36.1%. The increase was
the result of increased production volumes and a decrease in pro
forma depreciation expense of $2.5 million associated with
the purchase price allocation in connection with the
Transactions.

For the separations media segment, pro forma gross profit for
fiscal 2004 was $50.3 million, an increase of
$1.6 million, or 3.3%, from fiscal 2003. Pro forma gross
profit in the separations media segment as a percent of sales
for fiscal 2004 decreased to 31.9% from 33.4% in the same period
of the prior year. Separations media gross profit decreased
primarily due to the impact of the loss of a significant
customer, which resulted in lower production volumes, increased
manufacturing variances in the third and fourth quarters of 2004
and the recognition of a $1.8 million loss on raw
materials, a portion of which we were obligated to purchase
under an existing purchase commitment.

Selling, general and administrative expenses.  Pro forma
selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2004
were $80.2 million, an increase of $10.5 million, or
15.1%, from the fiscal year ended 2003. Pro forma selling,
general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales were
16.4% in 2004 as compared to 15.8% in 2003.  Interest expense,
net.  Pro forma interest expense, net was $60.9 million
for fiscal 2004, an increase of $39.4 million from fiscal
2003. The increase in pro forma interest expense is attributable
to the increase in senior debt and issuance of the
8  3  / 4
 % Notes in connection with the Transactions and the
issuance of the 10.5% discount notes in October 2004.

Income taxes, net.  Pro forma income tax expense as a
percentage of income before income taxes for fiscal 2004 was
38.0%, as compared to 29.3% for fiscal 2003.

Business restructuring   

For 2005 and 2004, our results have included business
restructuring charges that significantly affected operating
results. All restructuring charges, except for the asset
impairment, will result in cash outflows which will be funded by
cash from operations. The pre-tax components of restructuring
activity in 2005 were as follows:

27

Table of Contents   

The pre-tax components of restructuring activity in 2004 were as
follows:

2005 Restructuring Plan.  In order to better accommodate
customer growth and related demand for both lead-acid and
lithium battery separators in the greater Asian market, the
Company s Energy Storage segment is transferring certain
assets from Europe and the United States to its facilities in
Thailand and China. The capacity realignment plan includes the
closure of the Company s facility in Feistritz, Austria,
the downsizing of its Norderstedt, Germany facility and the
relocation of certain assets from these two plants to the
Company s facilities in Prachinburi, Thailand.
Additionally, finishing equipment from the Company s
facility in Charlotte, North Carolina was relocated to its
facility in Shanghai, China. The total cost of the realignment
plan is expected to be approximately $8.2 million, of which
$6.9 million has been recognized in 2005 and the remaining
costs are expected to be recognized in 2006. In addition to the
benefit of realigning capacity with market growth, we expect to
realize costs savings, a portion of which will be realized in
2006 with the full impact expected to be realized in 2007. The
timing and scope of these restructuring measures are subject to
change as the Company further evaluates its business needs and
costs.

As part of the realignment plan, the Company announced on
June 16, 2005 layoffs of 110 employees at its Feistritz,
Austria, Norderstedt, Germany and Charlotte, North Carolina
facilities. The total cost of the employee layoffs and early
retirement program of approximately $4.9 million was
recognized in 2005.

The Company recorded an impairment charge of $1.3 million
in the three months ended July 2, 2005 for property, plant
and equipment located at the Feistritz, Austria facility that
will not be relocated to Prachinburi, Thailand. In accordance
with SFAS No. 144,   Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  , the
impairment charge represents the amount by which the carrying
value of the assets exceeds the expected future cash flows to be
generated over the remaining life of the assets.

The Company estimates that other costs, including disassembly,
moving, and legal expenses, will be approximately
$2.0 million, of which $0.7 million has been incurred.
These remaining costs will be recognized as incurred in
accordance with FASB Statement No. 146,  Accounting for
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 ( FAS 146 ).

2004 Restructuring Plan.  In an effort to manage costs and
in response to the decision of a customer to outsource its
dialyzer production, the Company implemented a number of cost
reduction measures in 2004 relating to the Separations Media
segment, including employee layoffs, the relocation of certain
research and development operations conducted in a leased
facility in Europe to facilities where the related manufacturing
operations are conducted and other cost reductions.

On September 3, 2004, the Company announced a layoff of
approximately 200 employees at its Wuppertal, Germany facility.
The Company recorded a charge for severance and benefit costs
related to the employee layoffs of $13.9 million during the
year ended January 1, 2005. A portion of the cost savings
relating to the layoffs was realized during fiscal 2005 with the
full benefit expected to be realized during 2006. In connection
with a customer s outsourcing of its dialyzer production,
the Company also recorded a charge for raw materials, a portion
of which the Company was obligated to purchase under an existing
purchase commitment, of $1.8 million in cost of goods sold
during the year ended January 1, 2005. The Company received
a portion of the inventory due under the commitment during 2005
and expects to receive the remainder in 2006. Finally, in
connection with the relocation of its research and development
operations, the Company expects to record a charge to earnings
of approximately $2.6 million, of which $2.1 million
was incurred during 2005 and the remainder is expected to occur
in 2006.

28

Table of Contents   

Foreign Operations   

We manufacture our products at 10 strategically located
facilities in North America, Europe and Asia. Net sales from the
foreign locations were approximately $272.7 million for
fiscal year 2005, $289.0 million for pro forma fiscal 2004
and $259.4 million in fiscal 2003. Typically, we sell our
products in the currency of the country where the manufacturing
facility that produces the product is located. Sales to foreign
customers are subject to numerous additional risks, including
the impact of foreign government regulations, currency
fluctuations, political uncertainties and differences in
business practices. There can be no assurance that foreign
governments will not adopt regulations or take other action that
would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business
or market opportunities within such governments  countries.
Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the political,
cultural and economic climate outside the United States will be
favorable to our operations and growth strategy.

Seasonality   

Operations at our European production facilities are
traditionally subject to shutdowns during the month of August
each year for employee vacations. As a result, net income during
the third quarter of fiscal 2005 was, and during the third
quarter of any fiscal year in the future may be, lower than
revenues and net income in other quarters during the same fiscal
year. In view of the seasonal fluctuations, we believe that
comparisons of our operating results for the third quarter of
any fiscal year with those of the other quarters during the same
fiscal year may be of limited relevance in predicting our future
financial performance.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The information presented below for pro forma fiscal 2004 has
been derived by combining the cash flow activity of the Company
for the period from January 4, 2004 through May 1,
2004 with the period from May 2, 2004 through
January 1, 2005 and applying the pro forma adjustments for
the Transactions.

Cash and cash equivalents decreased to $28.1 million at
December 31, 2005 from $33.1 million at
January 1, 2005, due to cash flow from operations of
$64.2 million, offset by capital expenditures of
$13.0 million, debt repayments and loan acquisition costs
of $52.8 million and the negative impact of exchange rate
changes on cash and cash equivalents of $3.5 million.

Operating activities.  The net cash provided by operations
consists primarily of net income before non-cash expenses, as
working capital did not change significantly during 2005.
Accounts receivable decreased by $10.4 million (excluding
the $7.5 million decrease due to the dollar/euro exchange
rate) and days sales outstanding decreased 14%, due to the
timing of payments from customers and the collection of a
receivable in 2005 due from a customer that decided to outsource
its dialyzer production in 2004. Our last sales to the customer
occurred at the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2004.
Accounts receivable due from that customer remained outstanding
until issues unrelated to the collection of the receivable were
resolved. We resolved these issues and collected the amounts due
from the former customer in the first quarter of 2005. Inventory
increased by $4.3 million (excluding the $5.6 million
decrease due to the dollar/euro exchange rate) due primarily to
higher production of lithium battery separators in preparation
for equipment upgrades in the first quarter of 2006 and
production of cellulosic hemodialysis membranes as we begin to
produce for customer sales commitments. We expect inventory to
continue to increase during 2006 as we finalize and produce for
our customer s cellulosic hemodialysis membrane
commitments. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities decreased
by $19.4 million (net of a $3.6 million decrease due
to the dollar/euro exchange rate). The decrease is predominantly
due to cash payments of $16.3 million made in connection
with the 2004 and 2005 business restructurings.

Pro forma net cash provided by operations was $54.9 million
in fiscal 2004, as compared to $56.5 million in fiscal
2003. The net cash provided by operations consisted primarily of
pro forma net income before non-cash expenses, offset somewhat
by increases in working capital. Accounts receivable increased
because of higher sales in comparison to the prior year, a 4%
increase in days sales in receivables due to customer mix and
the increase in the dollar/euro exchange rate
($4.3 million). Inventory was consistent with the previous
year, as an increase in the dollar/euro exchange rate was mostly
offset by an 8.9% decrease in inventory days. Accounts payable
and accrued liabilities, excluding the non-cash accrual for
business restructuring, decreased due to the timing of certain
payments and the termination of the swap agreement in connection
with the Transactions, offset somewhat by an increase in accrued
interest related to the new

29

Table of Contents   

senior and subordinated debt issued in connection with the
Transactions and the increase in dollar/euro exchange rate
($3.5 million).

Investing activities.  Capital expenditures were
$13.0 million, $15.4 million and $33.8 million in
fiscal 2005, pro forma 2004 and fiscal 2003, respectively.
Capital expenditures in 2003 included new production lines for
lithium battery separators. We expect to spend approximately
$20.0 million for capital expenditures in fiscal 2006. Cash
used in investing activities includes the acquisition of
Polypore in May 2004 for approximately $867.4 million.

Financing activities.  Cash used in financing activities
for fiscal 2005 was $52.8 million as compared to cash
provided by financing activities of $842.4 million for pro
forma fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2005, we made optional
prepayments totaling $45.0 million on the term loans under
the Credit Agreement and payments on other debt of
$5.4 million. In accordance with the Credit Agreement, the
prepayments were applied first to the quarterly principal
payments due for the next twelve months and second, pro rata
against the remaining scheduled principal payments. After giving
effect to the prepayments, the term loans will require quarterly
principal payments of approximately $0.9 million at the end
of each fiscal quarter beginning on December 30, 2006.

Polypore International was formed in May 2004 with
$170.4 million of equity and the issuance of
$150.0 million in Series A nonconvertible preferred
stock. In connection with the Transactions, Polypore, Inc.
entered into the credit agreement with initial borrowings of
$419.9 million and issued $405.9 million of
8  3  / 4 % Notes.
The net proceeds of the Credit Agreement, issuance of the
8  3  / 4
 % Notes and equity contributions were used to pay
the net purchase price to existing shareholders, repay all
outstanding indebtedness under an existing credit facility and
pay transaction-related fees and expenses.

We intend to fund our ongoing operations through cash generated
by operations and availability under our Credit Agreement. As
part of the Transactions, we incurred substantial debt under our
Credit Agreement and from the issuance of the
8  3  / 4
 % Notes, with interest payments on this indebtedness
substantially increasing our liquidity requirements.

The Credit Agreement is comprised of a $370.0 million term
loan and a   
  36.0 million term loan each due in 2011 and a
$90.0 million revolving credit facility due in 2010 (all of
which remains unfunded). The Credit Agreement permits us to
incur additional senior secured debt at the option of
participating lenders, subject to the satisfaction of certain
conditions.

Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at our
choice of the Eurodollar rate or adjusted base rate, or
 ABR,  in each case, plus an applicable margin,
subject to adjustment based on a pricing grid. As of
December 31, 2005, Polypore s cash interest
requirements for the next 12 months are expected to be
approximately $62.7 million.

On July 31, 2004, the Credit Facility was amended and the
applicable margin percentage decreased to 1.25% for alternate
base rate loans or 2.25% for adjusted LIBO rate loans.

On June 15, 2005, Polypore completed a technical amendment
to the Credit Agreement to provide certain definitional changes
in the debt covenant calculation to accommodate the asset
relocations associated with the 2005 restructuring.

On December 19, 2005, the Credit Agreement was amended to
adjust certain covenant ratios and terms. In addition, the
amendment raised the applicable margin percentage to 2.00% for
alternate base rate loans and 3.00% for adjusted LIBO rate loans.

The Credit Agreement requires Polypore to meet a minimum
interest coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and a maximum
capital expenditures limitation. Under the Credit Agreement,
compliance with the minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum
leverage ratio tests is determined based on a calculation of
adjusted EBITDA in which certain items are added back to EBITDA.

30

Table of Contents   

Adjusted EBITDA for Polypore, Inc., as defined under the amended
Credit Agreement, is calculated as follows:

(1)  
     
    Statement of operations data presented for the year ended
    January 1, 2005 represents the combination of historical
    results for the periods January 4, 2004 through May 1,
    2004 and May 2, 2004 through January 1, 2005. 

(2)  
     
    Represents the non-cash hedging gain for changes in the fair
    value of the derivative instruments used to manage interest rate
    risk as required by Polypore s former credit agreement. 

(3)  
     
    Represents the salary and bonus for former owners who are not
    involved with Polypore subsequent to the Transactions. 

(4)  
     
    Represents the write-off of the inventory purchase accounting
    adjustment for inventory that was sold during the period. 

(5)  
     
    Represents the one-time charge for purchased in process research
    and development. 

(6)  
     
    Represents non-recurring costs incurred in connection with the
    Transactions. 

(7)  
     
    Represents payments under two operating lease agreements that
    Polypore intends to refinance. On October 29, 2004,
    Polypore refinanced one of the operating leases through a
    capital lease agreement. Polypore intends to exercise its
    purchase option under the other operating lease and purchase the
    equipment from the lessor. 

(8)  
     
    Represents business restructuring costs, including estimated
    costs of employee layoffs and the loss on an inventory purchase
    commitment included in cost of goods sold in 2004. 

The calculation of the minimum interest coverage ratio for
Polypore is as follows:

Twelve    

Months    

Ended    

December 31,    

(in millions)  
       
      2005    

Adjusted EBITDA

$ 
     134.3 

Consolidated interest expense, as defined in the Credit Agreement

$ 
     57.2 

Actual interest coverage ratio

2.35 
     x 

Permitted minimum interest coverage ratio

1.90 
     x 

31

Table of Contents   

Under the amended Credit Agreement, Polypore is required to
maintain a ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to interest expense for any
four consecutive fiscal quarters ending during any of the
following periods or on any of the following dates of at least
the following ratios:

The calculation of the maximum leverage ratio for Polypore is as
follows:

Under the amended Credit Agreement, Polypore is required to
maintain a ratio of total indebtedness to Adjusted EBITDA for
any four consecutive fiscal quarters ending during any of the
following periods or on any of the following dates of not more
than the following ratios:

In addition, the Credit Agreement contains certain restrictive
covenants which, among other things, limit the incurrence of
additional indebtedness, investments, dividends, transactions
with affiliates, asset sales, acquisitions, mergers and
consolidations, prepayments of other indebtedness, liens and
encumbrances and other matters customarily restricted in such
agreements. The facilities also contain certain customary events
of defaults, subject to grace periods, as appropriate.

We believe that annual capital expenditure limitations imposed
by the senior credit facilities will not significantly inhibit
us from meeting our ongoing capital expenditure needs.

Future principal debt payments are expected to be paid out of
cash flows from operations, borrowings on Polypore s
revolving credit facility and future refinancing of debt.

Polypore s
8  3  / 4
 % senior subordinated notes will mature in 2012 and
are guaranteed by most of our existing and future domestic
restricted subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. Except
under certain circumstances, such notes do not require principal
payments prior to their maturity in 2012. Interest on the

32

Table of Contents   

8  3  / 4 % senior
subordinated notes will be payable semi-annually in cash. The
8  3  / 4
 % senior subordinated notes contain customary
covenants and events of default, including covenants that limit
Polypore s ability to incur debt, pay dividends and make
investments.

Our
10  1  / 2 % senior
discount notes will mature in 2012 and, except under certain
circumstances, such notes do not require principal payments
prior to their maturity in 2012. Interest on the
10  1  / 2 % senior
discount notes will be payable in cash on April 1 and
October 1 of each year, commencing on April 1, 2009.
The
10  1  / 2 % senior
discount notes contain customary covenants and events of
default, including covenants that limit our ability to incur
debt, pay dividends and make investments. Polypore International
is the sole obligor of the
10  1  / 2 % senior
discount notes and, although as a holding company we are
dependent on the cash flow (and possibly the assets) of our
subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations, our subsidiaries have
no obligation under the
10  1  / 2
 % senior discount notes.

We believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our cash
requirements over both the short (next twelve months) and long
term (in relation to our debt service requirements). In
evaluating the sufficiency of our liquidity for both the shorter
and longer term, we considered the expected cash flow to be
generated by our operations and the available borrowings under
our credit facility compared to our anticipated cash
requirements for debt service, working capital, cash taxes, and
capital expenditures as well as funding requirements for
long-term liabilities. We anticipate that our operating cash
flow, together with borrowings under the revolving credit
facility, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated future
operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service
obligations as they become due for at least the next twelve
months. However, our ability to make scheduled payments of
principal, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness
and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our
future operating performance, which will be affected by general
economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory,
business and other factors beyond our control. See the caption
above entitled  Risk Factors  in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K.  See
 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

From time to time, we may explore additional financing methods
and other means to lower our cost of capital, which could
include stock issuance or debt financing and the application of
the proceeds therefrom to the repayment of bank debt or other
indebtedness. In addition, in connection with any future
acquisitions, we may require additional funding which may be
provided in the form of additional debt or equity financing or a
combination thereof. There can be no assurance that any
additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms.

Contractual Obligations 

The following table sets forth our contractual obligations at
December 31, 2005. Some of the amounts included in this
table are based on management s estimates and assumptions
about these obligations, including their duration, anticipated
actions by third parties and other actions. Because these
estimates and assumptions are necessarily subjective, the timing
and amount of payments under these obligations may vary from
those reflected in this table. For more information on these
obligations, see the notes to consolidated financial statements
included in  Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data. 

(1)  
     
    Included in long-term debt are amounts owed under
    Polypore s term loan facilities and other debt. The term
    loan facilities include euro denominated debt held in the
    U.S. The table assumes that the 

33

Table of Contents   

euro/dollar exchange rate is the rate at December 31, 2005
    for all periods presented and that the debt is held to maturity. 

(2)  
     
    The table does not include accrued interest under the long-term
    debt. Interest rates under the term loan facilities are, at
    Polypore s option, equal to either an alternate base rate
    or an adjusted LIBO rate, plus an applicable margin percentage.
    The applicable margin percentage under the amended credit
    agreement is equal to 2.00% for alternate base rate loans or
    3.00% for adjusted LIBO rate loans. 

(3)  
     
    The
    8  3  / 4 % Notes
    are due 2012. This senior subordinated debt includes
      
      150.0 million euro denominated debt held in
    the U.S. The table assumes that the euro/dollar exchange
    rate is the rate at December 31, 2005 for all periods
    presented and that the debt is held to maturity. 

(4)  
     
    The table does not include accrued interest under the
    8  3  / 4 % Notes.
    Interest is accrued from the issue date at
    8  3  / 4
     % and paid semi-annually. 

(5)  
     
    The
    10  1  / 2
     % senior discount notes are included in the table at
    the undiscounted, principal at maturity balance of
    $300.0 million. Beginning in October 1, 2008, cash
    interest on the notes will accrue at a rate of 10.5% per
    annum and will be payable semi-annually beginning in April 2009. 

(6)  
     
    We lease manufacturing equipment under a capital lease
    agreement. The lease agreement expires in February 2011 and
    contains an early buyout option in October 2009. The capital
    lease payments include interest under the capital lease
    agreement. 

(7)  
     
    We lease certain equipment and facilities under operating
    leases. Some lease agreements provide us with the option to
    renew the lease agreement. Our future operating lease
    obligations would change if we exercised these renewal options
    and if we entered into additional operating lease agreements. 

(8)  
     
    As discussed in the notes to consolidated financial statements
    included in  Item 8. Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data,  we have long-term liabilities for
    pension, other postretirement and post employment benefits.
    Company contributions for these benefit plans are not included
    in the table above since the timing and amount of payments are
    dependent upon many factors, including when an employee retires
    or leaves the Company, certain benefit elections by employees,
    return on plan assets, minimum funding requirements and foreign
    currency exchange rates. We estimate that contributions to the
    pension and post retirement plans in 2006 will be
    $0.8 million, as compared to 2005 actual contributions of
    $1.1 million. 

(9)  
     
    As discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial
    statements included in  Item 8. Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data,  we have environmental obligations
    and related indemnification receivables. Payments related to
    these obligations and the related amounts to be indemnified
    under indemnification agreements are not included in the table
    above since the timing of payments and indemnifications is not
    known. We estimate that we will make payments, net of
    indemnification amounts, of $2.3 million in 2006. Payments
    against environmental obligations in 2005 were
    $1.1 million, net of indemnification receipts of
    $0.3 million. We expect payments for environmental
    obligations and amounts received under indemnification
    agreements will occur over the next seven to ten years. 

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 

The Company is not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements
that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future
effect on the Company s financial condition, revenues or
expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures
or capital resources that is material to investors.

New Accounting Standards 

In June 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154,
 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
 ( FAS 154 ). This standard establishes new
standards on accounting for changes in accounting principles.
Pursuant to the new rules, all such changes must be accounted
for by retrospective application to the financial statements of
prior periods unless it is impracticable to do so. FAS 154
completely replaces APB Opinion No. 20 and FAS 3,
though it carries forward the guidance in those pronouncements
with respect to accounting for changes in estimates, changes in
the reporting entity and the correction of errors. This
Statement is effective for accounting changes and corrections of
errors made in fiscal years beginning

34

Table of Contents   

after December 15, 2005. Management does not believe there
will be a significant impact as a result of adopting this
Statement.

In June 2005, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the
EITF on Issue No. 05-5,  Accounting for Early Retirement or
Postemployment Programs with Specific Features (Such As Terms
Specified in Altersteilzeit Early Retirement Arrangements). 
The EITF agreed with FASB staff observations that the salary
components of Type I and Type II ATZ arrangements
(excluding the bonus and additional contributions into the
German government pension scheme) should be recognized over the
period from the point at which the ATZ period begins until the
end of the active service period. Additionally, the portion of
the salary that is deferred under a Type II arrangement
should be discounted if payment is expected to be deferred for a
period longer than one year. In addition, the EITF reached a
consensus that the bonus feature and the additional
contributions into the German government pension scheme
(collectively, the additional compensation) under a Type II
ATZ arrangement should be accounted for as a post employment
benefit under Statement 112. An entity should recognize the
additional compensation over the period from the point at which
the employee signs the ATZ contract until the end of the active
service period. The EITF also concluded that the employer should
recognize the government subsidy when it meets the necessary
criteria and is entitled to the subsidy. The consensus in this
Issue is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2005, and reported as a change in accounting
estimate affected by a change in accounting principle as
described in paragraph 19 of FAS 154. As a result of
adopting this consensus, the Company will be required to
recognize the bonus feature of its ATZ arrangements over the
remaining active service period of the employees that have
signed ATZ contracts. The accrual for postemployment benefits
will be reduced by $2,530,000 at January 1, 2006, the first
day of the Company s fiscal year. The impact of adopting
the consensus is expected to result in additional compensation
expense of approximately $1,194,000 in 2006, with the remaining
compensation expense to be recognized over employee s
remaining service period.

In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 153,
 Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets
 ( FAS 153 ), an amendment of APB Opinion
No. 29,  Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions
 ( APB 29 ). The amendments made by
FAS 153 are based on the principle that exchanges of
nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of
the assets exchanged. Further, the amendments eliminate the
narrow exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive
assets and replace it with a broader exception for exchanges of
nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance.
Previously, APB 29 required that the accounting for an
exchange of a productive asset for a similar productive asset or
an equivalent interest in the same or similar productive asset
should be based on the recorded amount of the asset
relinquished. The Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset
exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after
June 15, 2005. Earlier application is permitted for
nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods
beginning after the date of issuance. Management does not
believe there will be a significant impact as a result of
adopting this Statement.

In December 2004, the FASB published FASB Statement No. 123
(revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment
 ( FAS 123R ). FAS 123R replaces
FAS 123, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.  FAS 123R
requires that the compensation cost relating to share-based
payment transactions be recognized in financial statements based
on their fair values. Public entities are required to apply
FAS 123R as of the first annual reporting period that
begins after June 15, 2005. Management does not believe
there will be a significant impact as a result of adopting this
Statement.

In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 107 ( SAB 107 ),
 Share-Based Payment,  which provides interpretive guidance
related to the interaction between SFAS 123R and certain
SEC rules and regulations and expresses the SEC s views
regarding the valuation of share-based payment arrangements.
Management is currently assessing the guidance in SAB 107
as part of its evaluation of the adoption of SFAS 123R.

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 151,
 Inventory Costs  ( FAS 151 ). This
statement amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43,
Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to clarify the
accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense,
freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage).
FAS 151 requires that idle facility expense, excess
spoilage, double freight and re-handling costs be recognized as
current-period charges regardless of whether they meet the
criterion of  so abnormal . FAS 151 also requires
that allocation of fixed production overhead expenses to the
costs of conversion be

35

Table of Contents   

based on the normal capacity of the production facilities.
FAS 151 is effective for all fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 2005. Management does not believe there will be a
significant impact as a result of adopting this Statement.

Item 7A.  
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

We are exposed to various market risks, which are potential
losses arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices,
such as interest rates and foreign exchange fluctuations. We do
not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for
trading or speculative purposes.

Interest rate risk   

At December 31, 2005, we had fixed rate debt of
approximately $628.5 million and variable rate debt of
approximately $367.0 million. The pre-tax earnings and cash
flow impact resulting from a 100 basis point increase in
interest rates on variable rate debt, holding other variables
constant, would be approximately $3.7 million per year. We
currently are not a party to any interest rate hedging
arrangements. Our hedging arrangements were terminated in
connection with the closing of the Transactions. We may decide
in the future to enter into interest rate hedging arrangements.

Prior to the closing of the Transactions, Polypore used an
interest rate swap as required by the then existing senior
credit facility to reduce the risk of interest rate volatility.
In March 2000, Polypore entered into an interest rate hedge
agreement with a major U.S. bank as required under the
existing credit facilities. The hedge agreement contained a
collar that provided a ceiling and a floor interest rate above
or below which the interest rate on the hedged portion of the
term debt would not vary. Upon adoption of FAS 133,
Polypore determined the interest rate hedge agreement did not
qualify for hedge accounting as defined in FAS 133.
Accordingly, the fair value of the financial instrument was
recorded in the financial statements and subsequent changes in
fair value were recorded in earnings in the period of change. At
December 28, 2002, the fair value of the interest rate
hedge agreement was approximately $7.6 million and was
included in accrued liabilities. During 2002, the three month
LIBO rate fell below the floor rate in the collar agreement and
we made payments to the bank of approximately $2.6 million.

On December 31, 2002, the interest rate hedge agreement
expired and the bank exercised its option to enter into a swap
agreement. The swap agreement effectively converted the variable
interest rate on $57.2 million of the term debt to a fixed
rate of 6.55%. The swap agreement did not qualify for hedge
accounting treatment as defined in FAS 133. Accordingly,
the fair value of the financial instrument was recorded as a
liability and subsequent changes in fair value were recorded in
earnings in the period of change. At January 3, 2004, the
fair value of the swap agreement was approximately
$5.4 million and was included in accrued liabilities.
During 2004 (prior to the Transaction) and fiscal year 2003,
Polypore made payments to the bank of $0.9 million and
$4.0 million, respectively, representing the difference
between the fixed interest rate on the swap and the variable
interest rate paid on the debt. The swap agreement was
terminated in connection with the closing of the Transaction.

Use of hedging contracts would allow us to reduce our overall
exposure to interest rate changes, since gains and losses on
these contracts will offset losses and gains on the transactions
being hedged. We formally document all hedged transactions and
hedging instruments, and assess, both at inception of the
contract and on an ongoing basis, whether the hedging
instruments are effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of
the hedged transaction. The fair values of the interest rate
agreements are estimated by obtaining quotes from brokers and
are the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to
terminate the agreements at the reporting date, taking into
consideration current interest rates and the current
creditworthiness of the counterparties.

Currency risk   

Outside of the United States, we maintain assets and operations
in Europe and, to a much lesser extent, Asia. The results of
operations and financial position of our foreign operations are
principally measured in their respective currency and translated
into U.S. dollars. As a result, exposure to foreign
currency gains and losses exists. The reported income of these
subsidiaries will be higher or lower depending on a weakening or
strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the respective
foreign currency. Our subsidiaries and affiliates also purchase
and sell products and services in various currencies. As a
result, we may be exposed

36

Table of Contents   

to cost increases relative to the local currencies in the
markets in which we sell. Because a different percentage of our
revenues are in a foreign currency other than our costs, a
change in the relative value of the U.S. dollar could have
a disproportionate impact on our revenues compared to our cost,
which could impact our margins. A portion of our assets are
based in our foreign locations and are translated into
U.S. dollars at foreign currency exchange rates in effect
as of the end of each period, with the effect of such
translation reflected in other comprehensive income (loss). In
connection with the Transactions, we obtained euro-denominated
senior secured and senior subordinated notes that effectively
hedge the Company s net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Therefore, foreign currency gains and losses resulting from the
translation of the euro-denominated debt is included in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Accordingly, our
consolidated shareholders  equity will fluctuate depending
upon the weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar
against the respective foreign currency, primarily the euro.

The dollar/euro exchange rates used in our financial statements
for the periods ended as set forth below were as follows:

Our strategy for management of currency risk relies primarily on
conducting our operations in a country s respective
currency and may, from time to time, involve currency
derivatives. As of December 31, 2005, we did not have any
foreign currency derivatives outstanding.

Item 8.  
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

The Company s report of independent registered public
accounting firm and consolidated financial statements and
related notes appear on the following pages of this Annual
Report on
Form  10-K. 

37

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors

Polypore International, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Polypore International, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, shareholders 
equity, and cash flows for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005, and for the period from May 2, 2004
through January 1, 2005 (Successor), and the consolidated
statements of operations, shareholders  equity, and cash
flows for the period January 4, 2004 through May 1,
2004 and for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2004
(Predecessor). Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an
audit of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control
over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not
for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Polypore International, Inc. and
subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005,
and the consolidated results of its operations and cash flows
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and for the
period from May 2, 2004 through January 1, 2005
(Successor), and the consolidated results of its operations and
cash flows for the period January 4, 2004 through
May 1, 2004 and for the fiscal year ended January 3,
2004 (Predecessor), in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set
forth therein.

March 13, 2006

Greenville, South Carolina

38

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Consolidated balance sheets 

See accompanying notes. 

39

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Consolidated statements of operations 

See accompanying notes. 

40

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Consolidated statements of shareholders  equity 

See accompanying notes. 

41

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Consolidated statements of cash flows 

See accompanying notes. 

42

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements 

1.  
     
     Description of Business and Transactions  

Description of Business 

Polypore International, Inc. (the  Company  or
 Successor ) is a leading worldwide manufacturer and
marketer of microporous membranes for use in energy storage and
separations applications. The Company has a global presence in
the major geographic markets of North America, South America,
Western Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.

Transactions 

On May 13, 2004, the Company acquired 100% of the
outstanding common stock of PP Holding Corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiary, PP Acquisition Corporation ( PP
Acquisition ), for $320,385,000 in cash. On May 13,
2004, PP Acquisition purchased the outstanding capital stock of
Polypore, Inc. ( Polypore ). The aggregate purchase
price, including acquisition related costs, was approximately
$1,150,073,000 in cash. In connection with the acquisition, PP
Acquisition obtained a new credit agreement with initial
borrowings of approximately $414,920,000 and issued
8.75% senior subordinated notes with a face amount of
$405,915,000. PP Acquisition used the net proceeds from the new
credit agreement, the issuance of senior subordinated debt and
equity contributions to pay the net purchase price to the
existing shareholders, repay all outstanding indebtedness under
Polypore s existing credit facility and pay transaction
related fees and expenses. At the time of closing of the
acquisition, PP Acquisition merged with and into Polypore, with
Polypore as the surviving corporation. These events are
hereinafter referred to as the  Transactions .

The acquisition of Polypore by PP Acquisition was accounted for
as a purchase in conformity with FASB Statement No. 141,
 Business Combinations  ( FAS 141 ) and FASB
Statement No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 ( FAS 142 ). The total cost of the
acquisition has been allocated as a change in basis to the
tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on their respective fair values as of May 13, 2004,
the date of the Transactions. For accounting purposes, the
acquisition was accounted for as if it occurred on the last day
of the Company s fiscal month ended May 1, 2004, which
is the closest fiscal month end to May 13, 2004, the
closing date of the acquisition.

The following table summarizes the final purchase price
allocation based upon the estimated fair value of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of the Transactions.

In connection with the Transactions, $5,250,000 was allocated to
in process research and development ( IPR ) and
expensed during the period in accordance with FASB
Interpretation No. 4,  Applicability 

43

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

1.  
     
     Description of Business and Transactions (continued)  

of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations
Accounted for by the Purchase Method.  The value of the
IPR&D was calculated with the assistance of a third party
appraiser based on cash flow projections discounted for the risk
inherent in such projects using a 60% probability of success
factor and a 16% discount rate.

The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net
assets purchased was approximately $567,587,000 and was
allocated to goodwill. The goodwill is not deductible for income
tax purposes.

The following unaudited pro forma financial data summarizes the
consolidated results of operations for the periods ended
January 1, 2005 and January 3, 2004 as if the
Transactions had occurred as of the beginning of each individual
period. Unaudited pro forma results below are based on
historical consolidated results of operations and include
adjustments for depreciation, amortization and interest expense
associated with the Transactions and the related income tax
effects of these adjustments. The unaudited pro forma results
for the period ended January 1, 2005 exclude non-recurring
costs of $5,250,000 for the write-off of in process research and
development costs and $19,007,000 for the sale of inventory that
was revalued in connection with the application of purchase
accounting for the Transactions. The pro forma amounts do not
necessarily reflect actual results that would have occurred.

2.  
     
     Accounting Policies  

Basis of Presentation and Use of Estimates 

For purposes of presentation, the accompanying statements of
operations and cash flows for the year ended December 31,
2005 and the period May 2, 2004 through January 1,
2005 reflect the operating results and cash flows of the Company
subsequent to the Transactions ( Successor ). The
consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the
period from January 4, 2004 through May 1, 2004 and
the year ended January 3, 2004 reflect the operating
results and cash flows of Polypore prior to the Transactions
( Predecessor ).

The accompanying consolidated financial statements of the
Company are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles and include the accounts of the
Company and its subsidiaries. All material intercompany accounts
are eliminated in consolidation. Certain amounts previously
presented in the consolidated financial statements for prior
periods have been reclassified to conform to current
classifications. The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.

Accounting Period 

The Company s fiscal year is the 52 or
 53-week  period ending
the Saturday nearest to December 31. The fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005 (Successor) includes 52 weeks. The
period from January 4, 2004 through May 1, 2004
(Predecessor) includes 17 weeks and the period from
May 2, 2004 through January  1, 2005 (Successor)
includes 35 weeks (together, 52 weeks). The fiscal
year ending January 3, 2004 includes 53 weeks.

44

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

2.  
     
     Accounting Policies (continued)  

Revenue Recognition 

Revenue from product sales is recognized at the time ownership
of goods transfers to the customer and the earning process is
complete. Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling
are recorded in  Net sales  in the accompanying
consolidated statement of income. Shipping and handling costs
incurred by the Company for the delivery of goods to customers
are included in  Cost of goods sold  in the
accompanying consolidated statement of income. Sales returns and
allowances are recorded as a reduction of revenue at the time
such returns and allowances are identified. Product returns and
warranty expenses were not material for all periods presented.

Cash Equivalents 

The Company considers all highly liquid investments with
maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash
equivalents.

Inventories 

Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market using the
 first-in,  first-out
( FIFO ) method of accounting and consist of:

For purchase accounting, the value of inventory on hand at
May 1, 2004 was increased by $19,007,000 to reflect the
fair value of such inventory, less cost to sell. Operating
results for the period from May 2, 2004 through
January 1, 2005 include an increase in cost of goods sold
of $19,007,000, representing the write-off of the inventory
purchase accounting adjustment as this inventory was sold.

Property, Plant and Equipment 

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed for financial
reporting purposes on the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the related assets. The estimated
useful lives established for buildings and land improvements
range from 20 to 39.5 years and the estimated useful lives
established for machinery and equipment range from 5 to
15 years.

Intangibles and Loan Acquisition Costs 

Identified intangible assets subject to amortization consist of
a supply agreement, customer relationships and technology and
patents. Loan acquisition costs are amortized over the term of
the related debt. Amortization expense for loan acquisition
costs is classified as interest expense. Indefinite lived
intangible assets consist of trade names and are not amortized,
but are subject to an annual impairment test.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 

Property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. If the sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows
is less than the carrying value of the related asset or group of
assets, a loss is recognized for the difference between the fair
value and carrying value of the asset or group of assets. During
2005, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $1,278,000
for property, plant and

45

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

2.  
     
     Accounting Policies (continued)  

equipment in connection with the 2005 Restructuring Plan as
described in Footnote 18. The impairment charge is included
in  Business Restructuring  in the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations. There were no impairments
of long-lived assets in 2004 or 2003.

Goodwill 

In accordance with FASB Statement No. 142,  Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets  ( FAS 142 ), goodwill
is not amortized, but is subject to an annual impairment test.
The impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value
of goodwill with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of
goodwill exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss will be
recognized in an amount equal to that excess. After an
impairment loss is recognized, the adjusted carrying amount of
goodwill is its new accounting basis. The Company performed its
annual impairment test in 2005 and concluded that none of its
goodwill was impaired.

Research and Development 

The cost of research and development by the Company is charged
to expense as incurred and is included in  Selling, general
and administrative expenses  in the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations. Research and development
expense, excluding the write-off of in-process research and
development, was $12,137,000 in 2005, $9,528,000 for the period
from May 2, 2004 to January 1, 2005, $4,116,000 for
the period from January 4, 2004 through May 1, 2004
and $13,397,000 in 2003.

Income Taxes 

The provision for income taxes and corresponding balance sheet
accounts are determined in accordance with Statement
No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes 
( FAS 109 ). Under FAS 109, the deferred tax
liabilities and assets are determined based on temporary
differences between the basis of certain assets and liabilities
for income taxes and financial reporting purposes. A valuation
allowance is recognized if it is more likely than not that a
portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized in the
future.

Foreign Currency Translation 

The local currencies of the Company s foreign subsidiaries
are the functional currencies in accordance with FASB Statement
No. 52,  Foreign Currency Translation
 ( FAS 52 ). Assets and liabilities of the
Company s foreign subsidiaries are translated into United
States dollars at current exchange rates and resulting
translation adjustments are reported in accumulated other
comprehensive income. Income statement amounts are translated at
weighted average exchange rates prevailing during the period.
Transaction gains and losses are included in the determination
of net income.

In connection with the Transactions, the Company obtained
euro-denominated senior secured and senior subordinated notes
that effectively hedge the Company s net investment in
foreign subsidiaries. Foreign currency gains of $33,546,000 and
losses of $28,996,000 resulting from the translation of the
euro-denominated debt at December 31, 2005 and
January 1, 2005, respectively, have been recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Stock-based Compensation 

The Company accounts for stock-based compensation using the
fair-value method under FASB Statement No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock Based Compensation
 ( FAS 123 ) and FASB Statement No. 148,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   
Transition and Disclosure  ( FAS 148 ).

46

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

2.  
     
     Accounting Policies (continued)  

Net Income (Loss) Per Share 

Basic income (loss) per common share is based on the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding in each
year and after preferred stock dividend requirements. Diluted
income (loss) per common share assumes that any dilutive
convertible preferred shares outstanding at the beginning of
each year were converted at those dates, with preferred stock
dividend requirements and outstanding common shares adjusted
accordingly. It also assumes outstanding common shares were
increased by shares issuable by exercise of stock options.

Accounts Receivable and Concentrations of Credit Risk 

Accounts receivable potentially expose the Company to
concentrations of credit risk, as defined by FASB Statement
No. 105,  Disclosure of Information about Financial
Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet Risk and Financial
Instruments with Concentration of Credit Ris k. The Company
provides credit in the normal course of business and performs
ongoing credit evaluations on certain of its customers 
financial condition, but generally does not require collateral
to support such receivables. Accounts receivable, net of
allowance for doubtful accounts, are carried at cost, which
approximates fair value. The Company establishes an allowance
for doubtful accounts based upon factors surrounding the credit
risk of specific customers, historical trends and other
information. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $6,815,000
and $5,962,000 at December 31, 2005 and January 1,
2005, respectively, which management believes is adequate to
provide for credit losses in the normal course of business, as
well as losses for customers who filed for protection under
bankruptcy law. The Company charges accounts receivables off
against the allowance for doubtful accounts when it deems them
to be uncollectible on a specific identification basis. Exide
Corporation ( Exide ), a customer of the
Company s Energy Storage segment, accounted for
approximately 17%, 14% and 16% of the Company s sales in
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Derivatives 

The Company accounts for derivative instruments in accordance
with FASB Statement No. 133,  Accounting for Derivatives
and Hedging Activity  ( FAS 133 ). Under
FAS 133, all derivative instruments are recorded at fair
value on the balance sheet and all changes in fair value are
recorded to earnings or to shareholders  equity through
other comprehensive income.

From time to time, the Company uses derivative financial
instruments to manage interest rate risk and does not use
derivatives for trading purposes. The Company enters into
derivative financial instruments with high credit quality
counterparties and has not experienced any credit losses on
derivatives.

On December 31, 2002, Polypore entered into an interest
rate swap agreement. The swap agreement effectively converted
the Polypore s variable interest rate on $57,225,000 of its
term debt to a fixed rate of 6.55% until December 29, 2006.
The swap agreement did not qualify for hedge accounting
treatment as defined in FAS 133. Accordingly, the fair
value of the financial instrument was recorded as a liability in
the consolidated financial statements and subsequent changes in
fair value were recorded to earnings in the period of change.
During the period from January 4, 2004 through May 1,
2004 and fiscal 2003, Polypore made payments (recorded as
incremental interest expense) to the bank of $947,000 and
$4,028,000, respectively, representing the difference between
the fixed interest rate on the swap and the variable interest
rate paid on the debt. The swap agreement was terminated in
connection with the closing of the Transactions.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments 

The Company s financial instruments include cash
equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued
liabilities, revolving credit obligations and long-term debt.
The carrying amount of the revolving credit facility and term
loan approximates fair value because the interest rate adjusts
to market interest rates. The fair value of the
8.75% senior subordinated notes and the 10.50% senior
discount notes, based

47

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

2.  
     
     Accounting Policies (continued)  

on a quoted market price, was $353,720,000 and $168,000,000 at
December 31, 2005. The carrying values of all of the other
financial instruments approximate their fair values.

Other Accounting Pronouncements 

In June 2005, the FASB issued Statement No. 154,
 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
 ( FAS 154 ). This standard establishes new
standards on accounting for changes in accounting principles.
Pursuant to the new rules, all such changes must be accounted
for by retrospective application to the financial statements of
prior periods unless it is impracticable to do so. FAS 154
completely replaces APB Opinion No. 20 and FAS 3,
though it carries forward the guidance in those pronouncements
with respect to accounting for changes in estimates, changes in
the reporting entity and the correction of errors. This
Statement is effective for accounting changes and corrections of
errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2005. Management does not believe there will be a significant
impact as a result of adopting this Statement.

In June 2005, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the
EITF on Issue No. 05-5,  Accounting for Early Retirement or
Postemployment Programs with Specific Features (Such As Terms
Specified in Altersteilzeit Early Retirement Arrangements). 
The EITF agreed with FASB staff observations that the salary
components of Type I and Type II ATZ arrangements
(excluding the bonus and additional contributions into the
German government pension scheme) should be recognized over the
period from the point at which the ATZ period begins until the
end of the active service period. Additionally, the portion of
the salary that is deferred under a Type II arrangement
should be discounted if payment is expected to be deferred for a
period longer than one year. In addition, the EITF reached a
consensus that the bonus feature and the additional
contributions into the German government pension scheme
(collectively, the additional compensation) under a Type II
ATZ arrangement should be accounted for as a post employment
benefit under Statement 112. An entity should recognize the
additional compensation over the period from the point at which
the employee signs the ATZ contract until the end of the active
service period. The EITF also concluded that the employer should
recognize the government subsidy when it meets the necessary
criteria and is entitled to the subsidy. The consensus in this
Issue is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2005, and reported as a change in accounting
estimate affected by a change in accounting principle as
described in paragraph 19 of FAS 154. As a result of
adopting this consensus, the Company will be required to
recognize the bonus feature of its ATZ arrangements over the
remaining active service period of the employees that have
signed ATZ contracts. The accrual for postemployment benefits
will be reduced by $2,530,000 at January  1, 2006, the
first day of the Company s fiscal year. The impact of
adopting the consensus is expected to result in additional
compensation expense of approximately $1,194,000 in 2006, with
the remaining compensation expense to be recognized over each
employee s remaining service period.

In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 153,
 Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets
 ( FAS 153 ), an amendment of APB Opinion
No. 29,  Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions
 ( APB 29 ). The amendments made by
FAS 153 are based on the principle that exchanges of
nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of
the assets exchanged. Further, the amendments eliminate the
narrow exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive
assets and replace it with a broader exception for exchanges of
nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance.
Previously, APB 29 required that the accounting for an
exchange of a productive asset for a similar productive asset or
an equivalent interest in the same or similar productive asset
should be based on the recorded amount of the asset
relinquished. The Statement is effective for nonmonetary asset
exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after
June  15, 2005. Earlier application is permitted for
nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods
beginning after the date of issuance. Management does not
believe there will be a significant impact as a result of
adopting this Statement.

In December 2004, the FASB published FASB Statement No. 123
(revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment
 ( FAS 123R ). FAS 123R replaces
FAS 123, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock 

48

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

2.  
     
     Accounting Policies (continued)  

Issued to Employees.  FAS 123R requires that the
compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions
be recognized in financial statements based on their fair
values. Public entities are required to apply FAS 123R as
of the first annual reporting period that begins after
June 15, 2005. Management does not believe there will be a
significant impact as a result of adopting this Statement.

In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 107 ( SAB 107 ),
 Share-Based Payment,  which provides interpretive guidance
related to the interaction between SFAS 123R and certain
SEC rules and regulations and expresses the SEC s views
regarding the valuation of share-based payment arrangements.
Management is currently assessing the guidance in SAB 107
as part of its evaluation of the adoption of SFAS 123R.

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 151,
 Inventory Costs  ( FAS 151 ). This
statement amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43,
Chapter 4,  Inventory Pricing,  to clarify the
accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense,
freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage).
FAS 151 requires that idle facility expense, excess
spoilage, double freight and re-handling costs be recognized as
current-period charges regardless of whether they meet the
criterion of  so abnormal . FAS 151 also requires
that allocation of fixed production overhead expenses to the
costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the
production facilities. FAS 151 is effective for all fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2005. Management does not
believe there will be a significant impact as a result of
adopting this Statement.

3. Property, Plant and Equipment 

Property, plant and equipment consist of:

49

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

4.     Intangibles,
Loan Acquisition and Other Costs 

Intangibles, loan acquisition and other costs consist of:

Amortization expense, including amortization of loan acquisition
costs classified as interest expense, was $20,458,000 in 2005,
$13,497,000 for the period from May 2, 2004 through
January 1, 2005, $1,441,000 for the period from
January 4, 2004 through May 1, 2004, and $4,162,000 in
2003. The Company s estimate of amortization expense for
the five succeeding years is as follows:

The changes in carrying amount of goodwill are as follows:

During 2005, the Company finalized the purchase price allocation
for the Transactions and made related purchase accounting
adjustments, including adjustments for the final allocation of
goodwill between segments.

50

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

6.  
     
     Accrued Liabilities  

Accrued liabilities consist of:

Debt, in order of priority, consists of:

On May 13, 2004, all indebtedness under the Polypore s
former revolving credit facility and term loans was paid. In
connection with the Transactions, Polypore obtained a new senior
secured credit agreement. The new senior secured credit
agreement provides for senior secured financing consisting of a
$370,000,000 million term loan facility,
  
 36,000,000 term loan facility and a $90,000,000 revolving
loan facility. The term loans mature in November 2011 and the
revolving loan matures in May 2010. Interest rates under the new
senior secured credit facilities are, at the Polypore s
option, equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted
LIBO rate, plus an applicable margin percentage. The applicable
margin percentage was initially equal to 1.50% for alternate
base rate loans or 2.50% for adjusted LIBO rate revolving loans.
On July 31, 2004, the credit agreement was amended and the
applicable margin percentage decreased to 1.25% for alternate
base rate loans or 2.25% for adjusted LIBO rate loans.

On June 15, 2005, we completed a technical amendment to our
credit agreement to provide certain definitional changes in the
debt covenant calculation to accommodate the asset relocations
associated with the 2005 restructuring.

On December 19, 2005, the credit agreement was amended to
adjust certain covenant ratios. The amendment raised the
applicable margin percentage to 2.00% for alternate base rate
loans and 3.00% for adjusted LIBO rate loans.

Polypore used cash generated from operations to make optional
prepayments on the term loans of $20,000,000 and $25,000,000 on
September 30, 2005 and March  1, 2005,
respectively. In accordance with the credit agreement, the
prepayments were applied first to the quarterly principal
payments due for the next twelve months and second, pro rata
against the remaining scheduled principal payments. After giving

51

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

7.  
     
     Debt (continued)  

effect to the prepayments, the term loans will require quarterly
payments of principal at the end of each fiscal quarter
beginning on December 29, 2006. At January 1, 2005,
the optional prepayment made on March 1, 2005 was
classified as a current liability and the current portion of
debt was adjusted to reflect the impact of the optional
prepayment in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

Polypore s immediate parent, PP Holding Corporation, and
Polypore s domestic subsidiaries guarantee indebtedness
under the credit agreement. Substantially all assets of Polypore
and its domestic subsidiaries and a first priority pledge of 66%
of the voting capital stock of its foreign subsidiaries secure
indebtedness under the credit agreement. The senior secured
credit agreement is subject to covenants customary for
financings of this type, including maximum leverage ratio,
minimum interest coverage ratio and limitations on capital
spending. Polypore may not pay dividends on its common stock.
Polypore was in compliance with all financial covenants as of
December 31, 2005.

In connection with the Transactions, Polypore issued
$225,000,000 8.75% senior subordinated dollar notes due
2012 and   
 150,000,000 8.75% senior subordinated euro notes due
2012 (collectively, the  Notes ). Interest is payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15. The Notes are
subordinated to all our existing and future senior debt, rank
equally with all our other senior subordinated debt and rank
senior to all our existing and future subordinated debt.
Polypore and its domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain
exceptions, guarantee the Notes.

On October 18, 2004, the Company issued $300,000,000
10.5% senior discount notes due 2012 with net proceeds of
$200,190,000. The net proceeds from the issuance of the discount
notes were used to redeem the Series A nonconvertible
preferred stock for $150,000,000 and pay a dividend to the
common shareholders of $47,190,000.

Prior to October 1, 2008, interest accrues on the notes in
the form of an increase in the accreted value of the discount
notes. The accreted value of the notes will increase from the
date of issuance until October 1, 2008 at a rate of
10.5% per annum, reflecting the accrual of non-cash
interest, such that the accreted value will equal the principal
amount at maturity of $300,000,000 on October 1, 2008.
Beginning on October 1, 2008, cash interest on the notes
will accrue at a rate of 10.5% per annum and will be
payable semi-annually beginning in April 2009. The notes will
mature on October 1, 2012. The discount notes are senior
unsecured obligations of the Company and are not guaranteed by
Polypore and its subsidiaries. Polypore s credit agreement
and the indenture governing the 8.75% senior subordinated
notes significantly restrict Polypore and its subsidiaries from
paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to the
Company.

Minimum scheduled principal repayments of debt
(undiscounted) are as follows : 

8.  
     
     Commitments and Contingencies  

Leases 

The Company leases certain equipment and facilities under
operating leases. Rent expense was $3,839,000 in 2005,
$3,687,000 for the period from May 2, 2004 through
January 1, 2005, $1,633,000 for the period from
January 4, 2004 through May 1, 2004 and $3,962,000 in
2003.

52

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

8.  
     
     Commitments and Contingencies (continued)  

In October 2004, the Company refinanced an existing operating
lease for manufacturing equipment with a capital lease
agreement. The lease agreement expires in February 2011 and has
an early buyout option in October 2009. Assets recorded under
the capital lease are included in property, plant and equipment.
At December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005, the cost of
assets under capital lease was $8,823,000 and accumulated
depreciation was $698,000 and $98,000, respectively.
Amortization of assets under the capital lease is included in
depreciation expense.

Future minimum capital and operating lease payments at
December 31, 2005 are:

Raw Materials  

The Company employs a global purchasing strategy to achieve
pricing leverage on its purchases of major raw materials.
Accordingly, the Company purchases the majority of each type of
raw material from one primary supplier with additional suppliers
having been qualified to supply the Company if an interruption
in supply were to occur. The Company believes that alternative
sources of raw materials are readily available and the loss of
any particular supplier would not have a material impact on the
results of the Company s operations. However, the loss of
raw material supply sources could, in the short term, adversely
affect the Company s business until alternative supply
arrangements were secured.

Collective Bargaining Agreements  

At December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately 1,800
employees worldwide. In the United States, approximately 250
employees are represented by labor unions which have entered
into separate collective bargaining agreements with the Company.

Other  

The Company is from time to time subject to various claims and
other matters arising out of the normal conduct of business. The
amount recorded for identified contingent liabilities is based
on estimates. Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and
adjusted to reflect additional information that becomes
available. Actual costs to be incurred in future periods may
vary from the estimates, given the inherent uncertainties in
evaluating certain exposures. Subject to the imprecision in
estimating future contingent liability costs, the Company
believes that based on present information, it is unlikely that
a liability, if any, exists that would have a materially adverse
effect on the consolidated operating results, financial position
or cash flows of the Company.

53

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

9.  
     
     Income Taxes  

Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities
consist of:

The valuation allowance increased approximately $1,792,000 in
2005.

Deferred taxes are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet
as follows:

For financial reporting purposes, income (loss) before income
taxes includes the following components:

54

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

9.  
     
     Income Taxes (continued)  

Income tax expense (benefit) consisted of the following:

The Company has German net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $7,957,000. The carryforwards in Germany do not
expire but are subject to certain limitations in their use. The
Company generated net operating loss carryforwards at its
Austrian facility during 2005 of approximately $2,760,000. The
carryforwards in Austria do not expire but are subject to
certain limitations in their use. Since the Company has closed
its facility in Austria, a full valuation allowance has been
provided for these carryforwards. The Company generated net
operating loss carryforwards in the United States during 2005 of
approximately $8,371,000 that expire in 2026.

Income taxes at the Company s effective tax rate differed
from income taxes at the statutory rate as follows:

Income tax expense recorded in the financial statements differs
from the Federal statutory income tax rate due to a variety of
factors, including state income taxes, the mix of income between
U.S. and foreign jurisdictions taxed at varying rates, certain
export sales which are excluded from taxable income and various
changes in estimates of permanent differences and valuation
allowances.

55

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

9.  
     
     Income Taxes (continued)  

Taxes have been provided on earnings distributed and expected to
be distributed by the Company s foreign subsidiaries. All
other foreign earnings are undistributed and considered to be
indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no provision for
U.S. Federal and state income taxes has been provided
thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of
dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to both
U.S. income taxes and withholding taxes payable to the
various foreign countries. Determination of the amount of
unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability is not
practicable because of the complexities associated with its
hypothetical calculations; however, unrecognized foreign tax
credit carryforwards would be available to reduce some portion
of the U.S. liability.

The Company has entered into an agreement with the Board of
Investment in Thailand under which the Company s Thailand
subsidiary is exempt from that country s corporate income
tax on income derived from manufacturing activities. Subject to
certain limitations, this agreement provides for 100% of the
Company s income from manufacturing activities in Thailand
to be tax-free through 2010 and 50% of the income to be tax-free
for another five years. The benefit recognized from this tax
holiday in 2005 was approximately $1,600,000.

Although the outcome of tax audits is uncertain, management
believes that adequate provisions for income taxes have been
made for potential liabilities resulting from such matters. As
of the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company has total
provisions of approximately $6,300,000 for uncertain tax
positions, as compared to $522,000 as of January 1, 2005.
Management is not aware of any issues for open tax years that
upon final resolution are expected to have a material adverse
effect on the Company s consolidated results of operations,
cash flows or financial position.

The American Jobs Creation Act (the  Act ) was enacted
on October 22, 2004. The Act contains a temporary provision
that encourages companies to repatriate foreign earnings and a
deduction from federal taxable income related to certain
qualifying domestic production manufacturing activities. The
Company has elected not to repatriate any amounts under this
provision. In order to claim the qualified production activities
deduction, the Company must have taxable income in the
U.S. In 2005, the Company had a net operating loss in the
U.S. and was not able to benefit from the deduction. The
provision will benefit the Company in future years to the extent
taxable income is generated in the U.S.

56

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

10.  
     
     Employee Benefit Plans  

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits 

The Company and its subsidiaries sponsor multiple defined
benefit pension plans, which are substantially based at
subsidiaries outside of the U.S., and an other postretirement
benefit plan based in the U.S.

57

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

10.  
     
     Employee Benefit Plans (continued)  

Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets consist of:

The 2005 actuarial loss was impacted by the decrease in the
discount rates used in our foreign plans.

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
pension plans was $69,129,000 at December 31, 2005.

In 2006, the Company expects to contribute $609,000 and $207,000
to its pension and other postretirement benefit plans,
respectively.

58

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

10.  
     
     Employee Benefit Plans (continued)  

The following table provides the components of net periodic
benefit cost:

Assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation and net
periodic benefit costs consist of:

The weighted-average annual assumed rate of increase in the per
capita cost of covered benefits (i.e., health care cost trend
rate for the medical plan) is 10% for 2005, and is assumed to
trend down to 6% by 2009 and thereafter. The health care cost
trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the amount of
the obligation and periodic cost reported.

The Company s pension plan assets are invested to obtain a
reasonable long-term rate of return at an acceptable level of
investment risk. Risk tolerance is established through careful
consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status and
corporate financial condition. Investment risk is measured and
monitored on an ongoing basis through periodic investment
portfolio reviews, liability measurements and asset/liability
studies. The Company s expected return on plan assets is
based on historical market data for each asset class.

59

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

10.  
     
     Employee Benefit Plans (continued)  

The assets in the pension plans are diversified across equity
and fixed income investments. The investment portfolio has
target allocations of approximately 35% equity and 65% fixed
income for the foreign plans and approximately 19% equity and
81% fixed income for the domestic plan.

A one-percentage-point change in the health care trend rates
would have the following effects:

1%    
       
      1%    

(in thousands)  
       
      Increase    
       
      Decrease    

Effect on total of service and interest cost components of net
    periodic postretirement health care benefit cost

$  
      734  

$ 
     (716 
     ) 

Effect on the health care component of the accumulated
    postretirement benefit obligation

$  
      7,967  

$ 
     (7,813 
     ) 

The estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid for
each of the next five years and the sum of payments expected for
the next five years thereafter are:

The Company sponsors a 401(k) plan for U.S. salaried
employees. Salaried employees are eligible to participate in the
plan on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
October 1 after their date of employment. Under the plan,
employer contributions are defined as 5% of a participant s
base salary plus a matching of employee contributions allowing
for a maximum matching contribution of 3% of a
participant s earnings. The cost of the plan recognized as
expense was $1,585,000 in 2005, $769,000 for the period from
May 2, 2004 through January 1, 2005, $382,000 for the
period from January 4, 2004 through May 1, 2004 and
$1,647,000 in 2003.

In accordance with collective bargaining agreements, the Company
sponsors a 401(k) plan for U.S. hourly employees subject to
such agreements. Depending on the applicable collective
bargaining agreement, employer basic contributions are defined
as 2% or 3.25% of a participant s base earnings plus a
matching of employee contributions allowing for a maximum
matching contribution of 2.25% or 2.50% of a participant s
earnings. The Company also makes a separate contribution for
employees hired prior to January 1, 2000 and who are not
eligible for the postretirement benefit plan. The cost of the
plan recognized as expense was $569,000 in 2005, $360,000 for
the period from May 2, 2004 through January 1, 2005,
$156,000 for the period from January 4, 2004 through
May 1, 2004 and $535,000 in 2003.

Post Employment Benefits 

The Company provides post employment benefits at its German
subsidiary under the ATZ early retirement program. The ATZ
program allows older workers to stop working before they reach
retirement age and receive a reduced salary and certain benefits
until they reach retirement age. The Company accounts for
benefits provided under the ATZ program in accordance with FASB
Statement No. 112,  Employers  Accounting for Post
Employment Benefits  ( FAS 112 ). As discussed
in Note 2, the Company will adopt EITF No. 05-5,
 Accounting for Early Retirement or Postemployment Programs
with Specific Features (Such As Terms Specified in
Altersteilzeit Early Retirement Arrangements) , effective
January 1, 2006.

60

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

11.  
     
     Segment Information  

The Company s operations are principally managed on a
products basis and are comprised of two reportable segments:
Energy Storage and Separations Media. The Energy Storage segment
produces and markets membranes that provide the critical
function of separating the cathode and anode in a variety of
battery markets, including lithium, industrial and
transportation applications. The Separations Media segment
produces and markets membranes used as the high technology
filtration element in various medical and industrial
applications.

The Company evaluates the performance of segments and allocates
resources to segments based on operating income before interest,
income taxes, depreciation and amortization. In addition, we
evaluate business segment performance before business
restructuring charges and the impact of non-recurring costs,
such as the purchase accounting adjustments related to the
write-off of in process research and development costs and the
impact of the revaluation of inventory. The accounting policies
of the reportable segments are the same as those described in
the summary of significant accounting policies.

61

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

11.  
     
     Segment Information (continued)  

Financial information relating to the reportable operating
segments is presented below:

62

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

11.  
     
     Segment Information (continued)  

Net sales by geographic location, based on the country from
which the product is shipped, were as follows:

Property, plant and equipment by geographic location were as
follows:

The capital structure of the Company includes 1,500 shares
of Series A nonconvertible preferred stock ( Preferred
Stock ). The holders of the Preferred Stock do not receive
dividends. In the event of a voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, the
holders of the Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a per
share amount in cash equal to the stated value ($100,000) before
any payments are made to the holders of common stock. The
Company has the option to redeem shares of the Preferred Stock
at a price per share equal to the stated value as of the date of
such redemption.

On October 18, 2004, the Company used a portion of the
proceeds from the issuance of 10.5% senior discount notes
to redeem the Preferred Stock at its stated value of
$150,000,000.

The capital structure of the Predecessor included redeemable
preferred stock. As discussed in Note 1, on May 13,
2004, the acquisition of Polypore by the Company resulted in a
change in ownership requiring the redemption of all outstanding
shares of redeemable preferred stock. At the date of the
Transactions, 14,000 shares of Class A Redeemable
Preferred Stock were outstanding and were redeemed for
$14,000,000 (the stated liquidation value of $1,000 per
share) plus cumulative dividends payable of $2,645,000.

63

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

12.  
     
     Preferred Stock (continued)  

Redeemable preferred stock activity during 2004 and 2003
consisted of:

13.  
     
     Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
were as follows:

14.  
     
     Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)  

During the period from May 2, 2004 through July 3,
2004, the Company incurred non-recurring costs of $5,250,000 for
the write-off of in-process research and development costs and
$8,490,000 for the sale of inventory that was revalued in
connection with the application of purchase accounting for the
Transactions. These adjustments, net of applicable income taxes,
resulted in a decrease in net income for the period of
$10,936,000 ($63.80 per share).

64

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

14.  
     
     Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) (continued)  

During the third quarter of 2004, the Company incurred
non-recurring costs of $10,517,000 for the sale of inventory
that was revalued in connection with the application of purchase
accounting for the Transactions and $15,687,000 for the business
restructuring. These adjustments, net of applicable income
taxes, resulted in a decrease in net income for the quarter of
$15,466,000 ($90.22 per share).

During the fourth quarter of 2004, the purchase price allocation
for property, plant and equipment and intangibles was finalized
and preliminary estimates of the fair value were adjusted. As a
result, the Company recorded increased depreciation and
amortization of $3,122,000. This adjustment, net of applicable
income taxes, resulted in a decrease in fourth quarter net
income of $2,151,000 ($12.55 per share). Quarterly results
for the previous quarters of 2004 were not restated to reflect
this adjustment.

15.  
     
     Related Party Transactions  

Polypore s German subsidiary has equity investments in two
companies that provide patent, trademark and research services
for the Company. The investments represent approximately 25%
ownership in each of the firms and are accounted for by the
equity method of accounting. The Company s equity
investment account balance was $150,000 and $154,000 at
December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005, respectively.
Charges from the affiliates for work performed were $1,407,000
in 2005, $474,000 for the period from May 2, 2004 through
January 1, 2005, $523,000 for the period from
January 4, 2004 through May 1, 2004 and $756,000 in
2003. The Company has amounts due to the affiliates of
approximately $84,000 and $357,000 at December 31, 2005 and
January 1, 2005, respectively.

Polypore s corporate headquarters were housed in space
leased by a former shareholder of Polypore from an affiliate of
the former shareholder. A portion of the lease payments and
other expenses, primarily insurance and allocated other direct
costs, were charged to Polypore. Charges from the affiliate were
$165,000 for the period from January 4, 2004 through
May 1, 2004 and $2,267,000 in 2003. Subsequent to the
Transactions, Polypore entered into a transition services
agreement with the affiliate of the former shareholder that
expired in April 2005. Charges from the former affiliate under
the transition services agreement were $32,000 in 2005 and
$477,000 for the period from May 2, 2004 through
January 1, 2005. At January 3, 2004, Polypore had
amounts due from the affiliate of approximately $5,212,000. The
amounts due from the affiliate were paid to the Company in
connection with the Transactions described in Note 1.

16.  
     
     Stock Option and Stock Incentive Plan  

In connection with the Transactions, the Company adopted the
Polypore International, Inc. 2004 Stock Option Plan ( 2004
Plan ). As of December 31, 2005, there were
8,968 shares of the Company s common stock reserved
for issuance upon the exercise of stock options under the 2004
Plan. All options granted have
 10-year  terms, vest and
become fully exercisable through 2008 upon satisfaction of
certain performance criteria. In addition, all or a portion of
the options will vest upon a change in control, as defined under
the plan. Stock options are issued at a price not less than the
fair market value on the grant date.

65

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

16.  
     
     Stock Option and Stock Incentive Plan (continued)  

The Company accounts for stock options under the fair value
method as defined in SFAS No. 123. The fair value of
each stock option granted under the 2004 Plan was estimated on
the date of grant based on the Black-Scholes option pricing
model with the following weighted-average assumptions:

During 2005, the exercise price of the stock options outstanding
on October 18, 2004 was decreased from $1,000 to
$725 per share to reflect the change in fair value of the
Company s common stock as a result of the redemption of the
Series A nonconvertible preferred stock and payment of a
common stock dividend on October 18, 2004. Because the
adjustment of the exercise price did not result in any
incremental difference in fair value of the options, no
additional compensation expense was recognized.

A summary of the Company s stock option activity, as
adjusted for the change in exercise prices of the options issued
in 2004, and related information is as follows:

Exercise prices for options outstanding at December 31,
2005 ranged from $725 to $875. The weighted average remaining
contractual life of those options is 9.0 years.

Compensation expense related to the stock options was $456,000
in 2005 and $239,000 for the period from May 2, 2004
through January 1, 2005.

17.  
     
     Environmental Matters  

The Company accrues for environmental obligations when such
expenditures are probable and reasonably estimable. The amount
of liability recorded is based on currently available
information, including the progress of remedial investigations,
current status of discussions with regulatory authorities
regarding the method and extent of remediation, presently
enacted laws and existing technology. Accruals for estimated
losses from environmental obligations are adjusted as further
information develops or circumstances change. Costs of future
expenditures for environmental obligations are not discounted to
their present value. Recoveries of environmental costs from
other parties are recognized as assets when their receipt is
deemed probable.

In connection with the Transactions, the Company identified a
potential enforcement issue with the United States
Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ). The Company
received a Finding of Violation

66

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

17.  
     
     Environmental Matters (continued)  

( FOV ) dated March 28, 2005 from the EPA
alleging a noncompliance with the Title V Air Operating
Permit at its Corydon, Indiana facility relating to the control
of fugitive emissions at the facility. The Company recorded its
best estimate of potential penalties through adjustment to the
allocation of purchase price. Subsequent to December 31,
2005, the Company reached a tentative agreement with the EPA
that is consistent with the Company s original estimate.
The agreement with the EPA will be final upon receipt and
signature by the EPA.

In connection with the Transactions, the Company identified
potential environmental contamination at its manufacturing
facility in Potenza, Italy. Subsequent to the Transactions,
additional environmental studies were performed with the
assistance of a third-party advisor and a preliminary plan for
remediation was developed. The Company reported the matter to
the proper authorities and presented its plan for remediation.
Based on this initial plan, the Company recorded an initial
estimate of the liability of $1,392,000 in the preliminary
allocation of purchase price at January 1, 2005. During the
three months ended April 2, 2005, the remediation plan was
further refined and new cost estimates were developed with
assistance of the third-party advisor and in consultation with
the Italian environmental authorities. Based on these changes,
the accrual was increased by $1,869,000 through further
adjustment to the preliminary allocation of purchase price. The
Company anticipates that expenditures will be made over the next
seven to ten years.

In connection with the acquisition of Membrana in 2002, the
Company recorded a reserve for environmental obligations that
was finalized in 2003. The reserve provides for costs to
remediate known environmental issues and operational upgrades
which are required in order for the Company to remain in
compliance with local regulations. The Company anticipates that
expenditures will be made over the next seven to ten years. The
initial estimate and subsequent finalization of the reserve was
included in the allocation of purchase price at the date of
acquisition.

The Company has indemnification agreements for certain
environmental matters from Acordis A.G. ( Acordis )
and Akzo Nobel ( Akzo ), the prior owner of Membrana.
Akzo originally provided broad environmental protections to
Acordis with the right to assign such indemnities to
Acordis s successors. Akzo s indemnifications relate
to conditions existing prior to December 1999, which is the date
that Membrana was sold to Acordis. The Akzo agreement provides
indemnification of claims through December 2007, with the
indemnification percentage decreasing each year during the
coverage period. Through December 2003, Akzo pays 75% of any
approved claim. After that, Akzo pays 65% of claims reported
through December 2006 and 50% of claims reported through
December 2007. Claims indemnified through the Akzo agreement are
subject to an aggregate 2,000,000 Euro deductible which has been
met. In addition to the Akzo indemnification, Acordis provides
separate indemnification of claims incurred from December 1999
through February 2002, the acquisition date. At
December 31, 2005, amounts receivable under the
indemnification agreement were $17,369,000.

18.  
     
     Business Restructuring  

2005 Restructuring Plan 

In order to better accommodate customer growth and related
demand for both lead-acid and lithium battery separators in the
greater Asian market, the Company s Energy Storage segment
is transferring certain assets from Europe and the United States
to its facilities in Thailand and China. The capacity
realignment plan includes the closure of the Company s
facility in Feistritz, Austria, the downsizing of its
Norderstedt, Germany facility and the relocation of certain
assets from these two plants to the Company s facilities in
Prachinburi, Thailand. Additionally, finishing equipment from
the Company s facility in Charlotte, North Carolina was
relocated to its facility in Shanghai, China. The total cost of
the realignment plan is expected to be approximately $8,168,000,
of which $6,853,000 has been recognized in 2005 and the
remaining costs are expected to be recognized in 2006. In
addition to the benefit of realigning capacity with market
growth, we expect to realize costs savings, a portion of which
will be

67

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

18.  
     
     Business Restructuring (continued)  

realized in 2006 with the full impact expected to be realized in
2007. The timing and scope of these restructuring measures are
subject to change as the Company further evaluates its business
needs and costs.

As part of the realignment plan, the Company announced on
June 16, 2005 layoffs of 110 employees at its Feistritz,
Austria, Norderstedt, Germany and Charlotte, North Carolina
facilities. The total cost of the employee layoffs and ATZ early
retirement program of approximately $4,890,000 was recognized in
2005.

The Company recorded an impairment charge of $1,278,000 in the
three months ended July 2, 2005 for property, plant and
equipment located at the Feistritz, Austria facility that will
not be relocated to Prachinburi, Thailand. In accordance with
SFAS No. 144,   Accounting for the Impairment
or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets  , the impairment
charge represents the amount by which the carrying value of the
assets exceeds the expected future cash flows to be generated
over the remaining life of the assets.

The Company estimates that other costs, including disassembly,
moving, and legal expenses, will be approximately $2,000,000, of
which $685,000 has been incurred in 2005. These remaining costs
will be recognized as incurred in accordance with FASB Statement
No. 146,  Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities  ( FAS 146 ).

2004 Restructuring Plan 

In an effort to manage costs and in response to the decision of
a customer to outsource its dialyzer production, the Company
implemented a number of cost reduction measures in 2004 relating
to the Separations Media segment, including employee layoffs,
the relocation of certain research and development operations
conducted in a leased facility in Europe to facilities where the
related manufacturing operations are conducted and other cost
reductions.

On September 3, 2004, the Company announced a layoff of
approximately 200 employees at its Wuppertal, Germany facility.
The Company recorded a charge for severance and benefit costs
related to the employee layoffs of $13,899,000 during the year
ended January 1, 2005. A portion of the cost savings
relating to the layoffs was realized during fiscal 2005 with the
full benefit to be realized during 2006. In connection with a
customer s outsourcing of its dialyzer production, the
Company also recorded a charge for raw materials, a portion of
which the Company was obligated to purchase under an existing
purchase commitment, of $1,788,000 in cost of goods sold during
the year ended January 1, 2005. The Company received a
portion of the inventory due under the commitment during 2005
and expects to receive the remainder in 2006. Finally, in
connection with the relocation of its research and development
operations, the Company expects to record a charge to earnings
of approximately $2,600,000, of which $2,128,000 was incurred
during 2005 and the remainder is expected to occur in 2006.

68

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 

18.  
     
     Business Restructuring (continued)  

Restructuring activity during 2005 consists of:

Restructuring activity during 2004 was as follows:

The Company expects to make payments against the restructuring
reserve of approximately $5,150,000 in 2006, with the remaining
payments expected to be made in 2007 and 2008.

The current portion of the reserve for business restructuring
costs is recorded in accrued liabilities and the non-current
portion is recorded in other non-current liabilities.

69

Table of Contents   

Item 9.  
     
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
    and Financial Disclosure  

Not applicable.

Item 9A.  
     
     Controls and Procedures  

As of December 31, 2005, an evaluation of the effectiveness
of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in
Rule  13(a)-15(e) 
or  15d-15(e) 
promulgated under the Exchange Act) was performed under the
supervision and with the participation of the Company s
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer. Based on that evaluation, the Company s
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have
concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and
procedures are effective, as of December 31, 2005, to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company
in its reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act
is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC.

During the Company s fourth fiscal quarter of 2005, there
has been no change in the Company s internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in
Rule  13a-15(f)  or
 15d-15(f)  promulgated
under the Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.  
     
     Other Information  

Not applicable.

Part III 

Item 10.  
     
     Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The following table sets forth certain information concerning
our executive officers and directors:

Name  
       
      Age    
       
      Position  

Robert B. Toth

45 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 

Lynn Amos

40 

Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary 

Stefan Geyler

49 

Vice President & General Manager, Membrana GmbH 

Brad Reed

47 

Vice President & General Manager, Celgard LLC 

Pierre Hauswald

52 

Vice President & General Manager, Daramic LLC 

Michael Graff

53 

Chairman of the Board of Directors 

Frank Nasisi

66 

Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors 

David A. Barr

41 

Director 

Kevin Kruse

35 

Director 

Robert B. Toth  became our President, Chief Executive
Officer and a director on July 6, 2005. Mr. Toth
previously was Chief Executive Officer and President of CP Kelco
ApS, a leading global manufacturer of hydrocolloids, with more
than 2,000 customers in over 100 countries and facilities in
North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. Prior to joining
CP Kelco in June of 2001, he spent 19 years at Monsanto and
Solutia Inc. in roles of increasing responsibility, most
recently as Vice President and General Manager of the Resins and
Additives division of Solutia.

Lynn Amos  has served as our Chief Financial Officer since
February 2002. Prior to his current role, Mr. Amos served
as Director of Corporate Development and Corporate Controller at
The InterTech Group since joining us in 1998. In these roles,
Mr. Amos was directly involved in our financial and
acquisition activities. Prior to joining The InterTech Group,
Mr. Amos worked in a variety of financial roles at Umbro
International, Reeves Industries, Inc. and Price Waterhouse.
Mr. Amos holds a B.S. Degree from Western Carolina
University and is a Certified Public Accountant.

Stefan Geyler  has served as General Manager of Membrana
GmbH since September 2002. Mr. Geyler has held various
roles since joining Membrana GmbH in 1990, which include Area
Sales Manager, Sales and

70

Table of Contents   

Marketing Manager, Head of Sub-Business Unit Dialysis, and Vice
President of Operations. Mr. Geyler graduated from the
University of Mainz (Mainz, Germany).

Brad Reed  has served as Vice President/ General Manager
of Celgard, LLC since March 2000 where he has global business
responsibility for Celgard, LLC. Prior to March 2000, he held
several management positions of increasing responsibility in the
Liqui-Cel   
Membrane Contactor and
CELGARD   
Hollow Fiber product line areas. Mr. Reed has worked in the
business currently known as Celgard, LLC since 1988 after
working for both Dow Chemical and Lithium Corporation.
Mr. Reed holds a B.S. Degree in Chemical Engineering from
Clemson University.

Pierre Hauswald  has served as Vice President &
General Manager of Daramic, LLC since June 2004. Since joining
Daramic, LLC in 1981, he has held several management positions
of increasing responsibility, which included Quality Control
Manager, Site Manager, Worldwide Manufacturing Manager and Vice
President of Manufacturing and Engineering. Mr. Hauswald
graduated from the Institut National des Sciences Appliques in
Lyon as a Diplomed Engineer in Chemistry and Macro-molecules.

Michael Graff  became Chairman of our board of directors
in connection with the closing of the Transactions.
Mr. Graff has served as a managing director of Warburg
Pincus LLC since October 2003 and has served as an advisor to
Warburg Pincus LLC since July 2002. Prior to working with
Warburg Pincus LLC, Mr. Graff spent six years with
Bombardier, first as President of Business Aircraft and later as
President and Chief Operating Officer of Bombardier Aerospace
Group. Prior to joining Bombardier, Mr. Graff spent
15 years with McKinsey & Company, Inc., a management
consulting firm, as a partner in the New York, London, and
Pittsburgh offices. Mr. Graff is a director of TransDigm
Group, Inc. and Builders FirstSource, Inc. Mr. Graff
received an A.B. Degree in economics from Harvard College and an
M.S. in Management from M.I.T.

Frank Nasisi  became our Vice Chairman of the board of
directors on July 6, 2005. Mr. Nasisi became our
President, Chief Executive Officer and a director effective upon
the closing of the Transactions and retired from his position as
the Company s Chief Executive Officer and President
effective July 6, 2005. From 1999 to the closing of the
Transactions, Mr. Nasisi served as our Chief Operating
Officer. From 1994 to 1999, Mr. Nasisi served as Vice
President and General Manager. Prior to the acquisition of the
Daramic   
business in 1994, Mr. Nasisi held various positions with
our predecessor subsidiary company including Worldwide
Manufacturing Director. Mr. Nasisi served on the board of
directors of Battery Council International, the worldwide trade
group for battery suppliers. Mr. Nasisi holds a Degree in
Mechanical and Civil Engineering from the Universita Messina
(Messina, Italy).

David A. Barr  became a director in connection with the
closing of the Transactions. Mr. Barr has served as a
member and managing director of Warburg Pincus LLC since January
2001. Prior to joining Warburg Pincus LLC, Mr. Barr was a
managing director at Butler Capital where he focused on
industrial leveraged buyout transactions for more than ten
years. Mr. Barr is a director of TransDigm Group, Inc.,
Builders FirstSource, Inc., Eagle Family Foods, Inc. and
Wellman, Inc. He holds a B.A. Degree in Economics from
Wesleyan University and an MBA from Harvard Business School.

Kevin Kruse  became a director in connection with the
closing of the Transactions. Mr. Kruse has been a Managing
Director of Warburg Pincus LLC since January 2006 and has been
employed by Warburg Pincus LLC since February 2002. Prior
to joining Warburg Pincus LLC, Mr. Kruse was employed by
AEA Investors Inc. where he focused on private equity
opportunities in industrial and consumer products companies.
Before that, he was employed by Bain & Co., a management
consulting firm. Mr. Kruse is a director of Knoll, Inc.,
TransDigm Group, Inc., Wellman, Inc. and Builders FirstSource,
Inc. Mr. Kruse received an A.B. Degree in Government from
Dartmouth College.

Term of executive officers and directors 

Directors are elected at each annual meeting of our
stockholders. We are wholly owned by Polypore International.
Executive officers are appointed by the board of directors and
serve at the discretion of the board of directors.

Code of Ethics 

We are in the final stages of developing a code of ethics that
is expected to be adopted by our Board of Directors during 2006.

71

Table of Contents   

Board composition 

According to a stockholders  agreement among the Company
and our stockholders ( see   Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions  below), Warburg Pincus has the right
to have certain individuals designated by it on our board of
directors until we complete an initial public offering of our
common stock in accordance with the rules promulgated by the
SEC. Currently, Warburg Pincus has designated David Barr,
Michael Graff and Kevin Kruse.  See   Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions  for more
information about this stockholders  agreement.
Mr. Barr, Mr. Graff and Mr. Kruse are currently
managing directors of Warburg Pincus LLC and partners of Warburg
Pincus & Co., which is an affiliate of Warburg Pincus
Private Equity VIII, L.P. and Warburg Pincus International
Partners, L.P., our principal stockholders.

Board committees 

Our board of directors has an audit committee and a compensation
committee.

Audit committee   

The audit committee of our board of directors will appoint,
determine the compensation for and supervise our independent
auditors, review our internal accounting procedures, systems of
internal controls and financial statements, review and approve
the services provided by our internal and independent auditors,
including the results and scope of their audit, and resolve
disagreements between management and our independent auditors.
Currently, the audit committee consists of Messrs. Graff
and Kruse. Our board of directors has reviewed the
qualifications and backgrounds of the members of the audit
committee and determined that, although no one member of the
audit committee is an  audit committee financial
expert  within the meaning of the Rules under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the combined qualifications and
experience of the members of the audit committee give the
committee collectively the financial expertise necessary to
discharge its responsibilities.

Compensation committee   

The compensation committee of our board of directors will review
and recommend to the board of directors the compensation and
benefits of all of our executive officers, administer our equity
incentive plans and establish and review general policies
relating to compensation and benefits of our employees.
Currently, the compensation committee consists of
Messrs. Graff and Barr.

Item 11.  
     
     Executive Compensation  

Compensation Committee Report 

The compensation committee of our board of directors will review
and recommend to the board of directors the compensation and
benefits of all of our executive officers, administer our equity
incentive plans and establish and review general policies
relating to compensation and benefits of our employees.
Currently, the compensation committee consists of
Messrs. Graff and Barr.

The following is an explanation of the Company s executive
officer compensation program in effect for fiscal 2005.

The 2005 executive officer compensation program of Polypore,
Inc. had two primary components: (i) base salary, and
(ii) short-term incentives under the Polypore, Inc. s
executive bonus plan. In addition, certain executive officers
are eligible to receive grants of stock options and other equity
compensation through Polypore International s 2004 Stock
Option Plan and 2004 Stock Incentive Plan. Executive officers,
including the Chief Executive Officer, were also eligible in
fiscal 2005 to participate in various benefit plans similar to
those provided to other employees of Polypore, Inc. The benefit
plans are intended to provide a safety net of coverage for
various events, such as death, disability and retirement.

Base salaries were generally established on the basis of
non-quantitative factors such as positions of responsibility and
authority, past experience, comparable market data and annual
performance evaluations. They were targeted to be competitive
principally in relation to similar positions in comparable
companies.

Polypore, Inc. s executive bonus plan established a
potential bonus pool for the payment of bonuses to Company
executive officers and other key personnel based on fiscal 2005
performance and operating

72

Table of Contents   

results. In evaluating Company and individual performance, the
Compensation Committee considered many relevant factors,
including revenue growth, EBITDA, its assessment of
management s performance given prevailing market
conditions, and individual evaluations by each executive
officer s superior. Awards of stock options under our 2004
Stock Option Plan and Stock Incentive Plan are based on a number
of factors in the discretion of our Compensation Committee,
including various subjective factors primarily relating to the
responsibilities of the individual officers for, and
contribution to, the Company s operating results and their
expected future contributions. For details concerning the grant
of Polypore International stock options to the named executive
officers, see  Executive Compensation   Option
Grants in 2005  and  Executive
Compensation   Aggregated Option Exercises In Last
Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values. 

Chief Executive Officer Compensation 

Current compensation for Robert B. Toth, our Chief Executive
Officer, is set forth in an employment agreement between the
Company and Mr. Toth, dated July 6, 2005. The
employment agreement has an initial term that runs until
July 6, 2008 and is automatically renewed for successive
one year terms unless and until either party delivers notice of
termination within 120 days of the expiration of the then
current term. Mr. Toth s initial annual base salary
was $450,000, which, by the terms of the employment agreement,
was automatically be increased by 5% on January 1, 2006.
Mr. Toth s annual base salary can be increased (but
not decreased) at the discretion of the Board. Although
Mr. Toth will generally be eligible for an annual cash
bonus based solely on the achievement of performance targets,
his bonus for the 2005 fiscal year was $225,000. Pursuant to the
employment agreement, Mr. Toth was granted options to
purchase 4,152 shares of the Company s common stock.
Subject to the achievement of certain performance targets, such
options will vest ratable on each of the first four
anniversaries of the date of grant. In addition to his option
grant, Mr. Toth will be entitled to purchase additional
shares of the Company s common stock during the first year
of his employment term at $875 per unit. Mr. Toth is also
eligible to receive discretionary bonuses under the executive
bonus plan described above.

Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, imposes an annual limitation on the deductibility of
nonperformance-based compensation in excess of $1 million
paid to named executive officers. The Committee currently
believes that, generally, the Company should be able to continue
to manage its executive compensation program to preserve federal
income tax deductions. However, the Compensation Committee also
must approach executive compensation in a manner which will
attract, motivate and retain key personnel whose performance
increases the value of the Company. Accordingly, the
Compensation Committee may, from time to time, exercise its
discretion to award compensation that may not be deductible
under Section 162(m) when, in its judgment, such award
would be in the interests of the Company.

Compensation Committee  

Michael Graff   Chairman 

David A. Barr 

73

Table of Contents   

Summary Compensation Table 

The following table sets forth the aggregate compensation paid
or accrued by us for services rendered during fiscal 2005,
fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003 to our Chief Executive Officer and
the four other most highly compensated executive officers, who
we refer to collectively as the  named executive
officers. 

(1)  
     
    Amounts in this column represent relocation expenses or personal
    mileage amounts related to company-owned vehicles. 

(2)  
     
    Consists of employer 401(k) contributions or similar items for
    executives based outside the United States. In addition to
    bonuses paid pursuant to the Company s executive bonus
    plan, Mr. Nasisi, Mr. Amos, Mr. Geyler and
    Mr. Reed each received a one-time bonus in connection with
    the closing of the Transactions in the amounts of $465,000,
    $465,000, $235,000 and $235,000, respectively. 

(3)  
     
    Mr. Toth became our President and Chief Executive Officer
    on July 6, 2005. Mr. Toth s initial annual base
    salary was $450,000. Salary for Mr. Toth in the above table
    represents the portion of the annual base salary that was earned
    since July 6, 2005. 

(4)  
     
    Effective as of July 6, 2005, Mr. Nasisi retired from
    his position as the Company s Chief Executive Officer and
    President. Mr. Nasisi remains on the board of directors in
    his new capacity as the Vice Chairman of the board of directors. 

74

Table of Contents   

Option Grants in 2005 

The following table sets forth information regarding all options
to acquire shares of our common stock granted to the named
executive officers of the Company during 2005.

Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year 

(1)  
     
    Stock options are issued at an exercise price not less than the
    fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date. The
    options expire in ten years from the grant date and vest and
    become fully exercisable after five years based on satisfaction
    of certain performance criteria, or upon change in control as
    defined. 

(2)  
     
    The fair value of the stock options was determined by the
    Black-Scholes option pricing model with a weighted-average
    expected life of five years, risk-free interest rate of 3.86%
    and expected volatility of 20%. 

Aggregated Option Exercises In Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal
Year-End Option Values 

The following table sets forth information concerning
outstanding options to purchase our common stock held by the
named executive officers of the Company at December 31,
2005.

(1)  
     
    Former Chief Executive Officer and President. 

75

Table of Contents   

Geyler Pension Plan 

The table below sets forth the estimated pension benefit payable
under a retirement plan relating to Stefan Geyler, the Vice
President & General Manager of our subsidiary, Membrana
GmbH, assuming normal retirement at age 65. The table
illustrates pension benefits payable under the plan determined
on a straight life annuity basis. There is no offset in these
pension benefits for United States Social Security benefits.

Calculations are based on information contained in the Summary
Compensation Table. Mr. Geyler has served our subsidiary,
Membrana GmbH, since 1990.

Management investment 

Robert B. Toth, our Chief Executive Officer, will be entitled to
purchase additional shares of the Company s common stock
during the first year of his employment term at $875 per unit.

In connection with consummation of the Transactions, Frank
Nasisi (our former President and Chief Executive Officer), Lynn
Amos (our Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary),
Stefan Geyler (the Vice President & General Manager of our
subsidiary, Membrana GmbH) and Brad Reed (the Vice President
& General Manager of our subsidiary, Celgard, LLC) each
purchased Class A common units of PP Holding, LLC,
representing an aggregate investment of $385,000, or 0.3% of the
membership interests of PP Holding, LLC outstanding immediately
following the closing of the Transactions. The proceeds were
used by PP Holding, LLC to purchase shares of our common stock.
On June 4, 2004, Messrs. Nasisi, Amos and Reed along
with Pierre Hauswald (the Vice President & General Manager
of our subsidiary, Daramic, LLC) purchased an additional 450
Class A units, bringing the aggregate investment of our
named executive officers in PP Holding, LLC to 0.6% of its
outstanding membership interests.

Indemnification agreements 

We entered into director and officer indemnification agreements
with certain of our directors and officers. The indemnification
agreements provide that we will indemnify, defend and hold
harmless the indemnitees, to the fullest extent permitted or
required by the laws of the State of Delaware, against any and
all claims based upon, arising out of or resulting from
(i) any actual, alleged or suspected act or failure to act
by the indemnitee in his or her capacity as a director, officer,
employee or agent of ours or as a director, officer, employee,
member, manager, trustee or agent of any other corporation,
limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust or
other entity or enterprise, whether or not for profit, as to
which the indemnitee is or was serving at our request,
(ii) any actual, alleged or suspected act or failure to act
by the indemnitee in respect of any business, transaction,
communication, filing, disclosure or other activity of ours or
any other entity or enterprise referred to in clause
(i) above, or (iii) the indemnitee s status as a
current or former director, officer, employee or agent of ours
or as a current or former director, officer, employee, member,
manager, trustee or agent of ours or any other entity or
enterprise referred to in clause (i) above or any actual,
alleged or suspected act or failure to act by the indemnitee in
connection with any obligation or restriction imposed upon the
indemnitee by reason of such status. The indemnification
agreements provide that the indemnitee shall have the right to
advancement by us prior to the final

76

Table of Contents   

disposition of any indemnifiable claim of any and all actual and
reasonable expenses relating to, arising out of or resulting
from any indemnifiable claim paid or incurred by the indemnitee.
For the duration of an indemnitee s service as a director
and/or officer of ours and for a reasonable period of time
thereafter, which such period may be determined by us in our
sole discretion, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable
efforts (taking into account the scope and amount of coverage
available relative to the cost thereof) to cause to be
maintained in effect policies of directors  and
officers  liability insurance providing coverage for
directors and/or officers of ours that is substantially
comparable in scope and amount to that provided by our current
policies of directors  and officers  liability
insurance.

Stock plans 

As more fully described below, Polypore International has
adopted the Polypore International, Inc. 2004 Stock Option Plan
and the Polypore International, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan. Under
the terms of those plans, certain executive officers and key
employees of Polypore, Inc. are eligible to receive grants of
stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock,
restricted stock units and other stock-based awards of Polypore
International.

In connection with the Transactions, Polypore International
adopted the Polypore International, Inc. 2004 Stock Option Plan,
which we refer to herein as the  2004 Plan.  The 2004
Plan reserves 8,968 shares of Polypore International common
stock for issuance pursuant to stock options granted under the
2004 Plan. Stock options granted under the 2004 Plan are not
intended to be  incentive stock options  within the
meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code. The
total number of shares of common stock reserved for grants of
options represents approximately 5% of our common stock on a
fully-diluted basis. Stock options for 8,741 shares were
outstanding at December 31, 2005. All options granted under
the 2004 Plan will vest based on satisfaction of certain
performance criteria. In addition, all or a portion of the
options that were granted under the new stock option plan will
vest upon a change in control of Polypore International if
equity investors receive predetermined rates of return on their
investment.

Stock Incentive Plan   

In July 2004, Polypore International adopted the Polypore
International, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, which we refer to
herein as the  Incentive Plan.  The Incentive Plan
reserves 6,000,000 shares of Polypore International common stock
for issuance pursuant to stock options, stock appreciation
rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other
stock-based awards granted under the Incentive Plan. Stock
options granted under the Incentive Plan are not intended to be
 incentive stock options  within the meaning of
Section 422 of the Code. The total number of shares of
common stock reserved for grants of options represents
approximately 10% of Polypore International s common stock
on a fully-diluted basis. No awards have been granted under the
Incentive Plan as of the date hereof. Awards granted under the
Incentive Plan will be subject to vesting and other conditions
as determined by the Polypore International compensation
committee at the time of grant.

We have elected to follow SFAS No. 123,  Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation.  As a result, we will be
expensing the fair value of the option grants over the expected
life of the options.

Employment agreements 

Robert B. Toth   

On July 6, 2005, we entered into an employment agreement
with Robert B. Toth pursuant to which Mr. Toth will serve
as the Company s Chief Executive Officer and President, as
the Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company s
subsidiary, Polypore, Inc., and as a director of both companies.
The agreement has an initial term that runs until July 6,
2008 and is automatically renewed for successive one year terms
unless and until either party delivers notice of termination
within 120 days of the expiration of the then current term.
Mr. Toth s initial annual base salary was $450,000,
which was automatically increased by 5% on January 1, 2006
according to the terms of the agreement. Mr. Toth s
annual base salary can be increased (but not decreased) at the
discretion of the board of directors. While Mr. Toth will
generally be eligible for an annual cash bonus based solely on
the achievement of performance targets,

77

Table of Contents   

according to the provisions of the employment agreement, his
bonus for the 2005 fiscal year had to be at least equal to
$225,000. Pursuant to the employment agreement, Mr. Toth
was granted options to purchase 4,152 shares of the
Company s common stock. Subject to the achievement of
certain performance targets, such options will vest ratable on
each of the first four anniversaries of the date of grant. In
addition to his option grant, Mr. Toth will be entitled to
purchase additional shares of the Company s common stock
during the first year of his employment term at $875 per unit.

If Mr. Toth s employment with the Company is
terminated by the Company without  cause  (as defined
in the employment agreement), by Mr. Toth for  good
reason  (as defined in the employment agreement) or as a
result of the Company s election not to renew the term of
employment, Mr. Toth will be entitled to (A) all
accrued and unpaid base salary, reimbursements and employee
benefits through the date of termination (the  Accrued
Obligations ), (B) a lump sum payment of an amount equal to
the greater of (i) the aggregate remaining annual base
salary through the remainder of the then current term, or
(ii) his then current annual base salary, (C) a
continuation of his employee benefits until the later of
(i) 12 months, or (ii) the expiration of the then
current term of employment, and (D) a lump sum payment of
an amount equal to the product of (i) the greater of
(a) one, or (b) a fraction, the numerator which equals
the number of whole months remaining in the then current term of
employment (including the month of termination) and the
denominator which equals twelve, and (ii) the greater of
(a) Mr. Toth s annual bonus for the preceding
fiscal year, and (b) 50% of Mr. Toth s target
bonus for the year of such termination. Additionally, upon the
Company s election not to renew the term of employment,
Mr. Toth will be entitled to his annual bonus for the year
in which such expiration occurs, if the Company achieves its
performance targets for the year of such expiration. If
Mr. Toth s employment with the Company is terminated
by the Company for  cause  or by Mr. Toth without
 good reason,  Mr. Toth will only be entitled to
the Accrued Obligations. If Mr. Toth s employment with
the Company is terminated by reason of Mr. Toth s
death or  disability  (as defined in the employment
agreement), Mr. Toth is entitled to (A) the Accrued
Obligations, (B) a pro rata portion of his annual bonus, if
the Company achieves its performance targets for the year of
such termination, and (C) a continuation of his employee
benefits for the earlier to occur of (i) 12 months, or
(ii) an election by Mr. Toth or his beneficiaries to
discontinue coverage. The employment agreement contains one year
non-competition and non-solicitation provisions following a
termination of employment.

The employment agreement also contains a standard
confidentiality provision. If there is any litigation concerning
a breach of the employment agreement, the prevailing party is
entitled to recover all reasonable attorney s fees and
costs from the other party.

Frank Nasisi   

Polypore International, Inc. entered into an Employment
Agreement, dated as of August 15, 2005, with Frank Nasisi
(the  Agreement ) pursuant to which Mr. Nasisi
will serve as the Company s Vice Chairman. The Agreement
has an initial term that runs until December 31, 2006 and
may be extended by mutual agreement. Mr. Nasisi s
annual base salary will be $435,000 until December 31,
2005. Commencing on January 1, 2006, his annual base salary
will be $300,000. Mr. Nasisi will be eligible for annual
cash incentive bonuses based upon the achievement of
 Annual EDITDA Targets  (as defined in the Polypore
International, Inc. 2004 Stock Option Plan (the
 Plan )) as described in the Agreement. Any stock
options previously granted to Mr. Nasisi will continue to
vest in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Mr. Nasisi will also be entitled to continue to participate
in health insurance, retirement and other benefits plans,
including fringe benefits, provided to senior executives of the
Company.

Mr. Nasisi s term of employment shall terminate upon
the expiration of the term of employment under the Agreement or
earlier upon a termination by the Company for  cause 
(as defined in the Agreement), a termination by Mr. Nasisi
for any reason or Mr. Nasisi s death. Upon any
termination of employment, Mr. Nasisi shall be entitled to
(i) all accrued and unpaid base salary, annual bonuses with
respect to completed fiscal years of the Company, unreimbursed
expenses and any relevant benefits under the Company s
employee benefit plans, (ii) a severance benefit of payment
of a base salary of $36,250 per month for 18 months, and
(iii) payment by the Company of COBRA premiums for the
earlier of 18 months or the date Mr. Nasisi commences
employment with any person or entity and is eligible for health
insurance benefits.

78

Table of Contents   

The Agreement contains non-competition and non-solicitation
agreements for the term of employment and 18 months after
any termination thereof. The Agreement also contains a standard
confidentiality provision.

Director compensation 

We will pay our outside directors, if any (which do not include
Messrs. Nasisi, Barr, Graff or Kruse) a one time retainer
fee of $25,000, plus $2,500 for each board meeting they attend.
In addition, we will pay each of our outside directors $5,000
per year for each committee of our board of directors for which
they act as chairperson. Other than outside directors, we do not
compensate our directors for serving on our board of directors
or any of its committees. We do, however, reimburse each member
of our board of directors for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in
connection with attending our board and committee meetings.

Compensation committee interlocks and insider
participation 

None of our executive officers serve as members of the board of
directors or compensation committee of any entity that has an
executive officer serving as a member of our board of directors
or compensation committee.

Item 12.  
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

The table below sets forth information regarding beneficial
ownership of our common stock as of December 31, 2005 for:

each stockholder who we know beneficially owns more than 5% of
    our outstanding shares of common stock; 

each of our directors; 

each of our named executive officers; and 

all of our directors and executive officers as a group. 

Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the SEC. Except as indicated in the footnotes
to this table and subject to applicable community property laws,
the persons named in the table have sole voting and investment
power with respect to all shares of common stock listed as
beneficially owned by them. Unless otherwise indicated, the
principal address for each of the stockholders below is
c/o Polypore International, Inc., 13800 South Lakes Drive,
Charlotte, NC 28273.

*  
     
    Less than one percent of the outstanding shares of common stock 

(1)  
     
    Includes 15,000 shares owned directly and
    141,421 shares beneficially owned through PP Holding, LLC.
    Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII, L.P., including two related
    limited partnerships ( WP VIII ), is one of two
    managing members of PP Holding, LLC and may be deemed to own 

79

Table of Contents   

beneficially all of the shares owned by PP Holding, LLC. Warburg
    Pincus Partners LLC ( WPP LLC ) is the sole general
    partner of WP VIII. WPP LLC is managed by Warburg
    Pincus & Co., a New York general partnership
    ( WP ). WP VIII is managed by Warburg Pincus LLC, a
    Delaware limited liability company ( WP LLC ). The
    address of the Warburg Pincus entities is 466 Lexington Avenue,
    New York, New York 10017. See Note 3 below. 

(2)  
     
    Includes 15,000 shares owned directly and
    141,421 shares beneficially owned through PP Holding, LLC.
    Warburg Pincus International Partners, L.P., including two
    related limited partnerships ( WPIP ), is one of the
    managing members of PP Holding, LLC and may be deemed to own
    beneficially all of the shares owned by PP Holding, LLC. WPP LLC
    is the sole general partner of each of these entities. WPIP is
    managed by WP LLC. The address of the Warburg Pincus entities is
    466 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. See Note 3
    below. 

(3)  
     
    WP VIII and WPIP each own 70,000 Class A units of PP
    Holding, LLC, representing an aggregate of approximately 99% of
    the outstanding membership interests of PP Holding, LLC. Frank
    Nasisi, Lynn Amos, Stefan Geyler and Brad Reed own, in the
    aggregate, 785 Class A units of PP Holding, LLC,
    representing an aggregate of approximately 0.6% of the
    outstanding membership interests of PP Holding, LLC. 

(4)  
     
    Mr. Toth, our Chief Executive Officer, will be entitled to
    purchase additional shares of the Company s stock during
    the first year of his employment term at $875 per unit. 

(5)  
     
    Mr. Barr, a director of Polypore International, is a
    general partner of WP and a managing director and member of WP
    LLC. All shares indicated as owned by Mr. Barr are included
    because of his affiliation with the Warburg Pincus entities.
    Mr. Barr owns no shares individually and disclaims
    beneficial ownership of all shares owned by the Warburg Pincus
    entities. His address is c/o Warburg Pincus LLC, 466
    Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10017. See Notes 1 and 2
    above. 

The following table provides certain information with respect to
the Company s equity compensation plans as of
December 31, 2005.

Number of securities    

remaining available    

for future issuance    

Number of securities    
       
      Weighted-average    
       
      under equity    

to be issued upon    
       
      exercise price of    
       
      compensation plans    

exercise of    
       
      outstanding    
       
      (excluding securities    

outstanding options,    
       
      options, warrants    
       
      reflected in column    

warrants and rights    
       
      and rights    
       
      (a)    

Plan Category  
       
      (a)    
       
      (b)    
       
      (c)    

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1)

8,741 

$ 
     800 

227 

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

Total

8,741 

$ 
     800 

227 

(1)  
     
    Includes shares issuable under the 2004 Stock Option Plan. In
    addition, as more fully described above in  Item 11.
    Executive Compensation   Employment Agreements, 
    our Chief Executive Officer is entitled to purchase additional
    shares of the Company s common stock during the first year
    of his employment term at $875 per unit. The shares that can be
    purchased by the Chief Executive Officer are not included in the
    table because the number of shares are not determined as of the
    date of this Annual Report on
    Form  10-K.  

Item 13.  
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  

The Transactions 

On May 13, 2004, Polypore, Inc. and its shareholders
consummated a stock purchase agreement with PP Acquisition
Corporation, our wholly owned indirect subsidiary, pursuant to
which PP Acquisition Corporation purchased all of the
outstanding shares of Polypore, Inc. s capital stock. The
aggregate purchase price, including acquisition related costs,
was approximately $1,150.1 million in cash. In connection
with these Transactions, PP Acquisition Corporation
(i) obtained a new credit agreement consisting of a
$370.0 million term loan facility and a
  
  36 million term loan facility, with initial

80

Table of Contents   

borrowings of approximately $414.9 million,
(ii) issued the
8  3  / 4 %
Notes, with a face amount of $405.9 million, and
(iii) received equity contributions from its shareholders
of $320.4 million. PP Acquisition Corporation used the net
proceeds from the new credit agreement, the issuance of the
8  3  / 4
 % Notes and the equity contributions to pay the net
purchase price to the existing shareholders, repay all
outstanding indebtedness under Polypore Inc. s existing
credit facility and pay transaction related fees and expenses.
At the time of closing of the acquisition, PP Acquisition
Corporation merged with and into Polypore Inc., with Polypore,
Inc. as the surviving corporation.

Tax sharing agreement 

We have entered into a tax sharing agreement with our
subsidiaries. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, we
and each of our subsidiaries are obligated to make payments to
us equal to the amount of the federal and state income taxes
that such subsidiaries and their subsidiaries would have owed if
we did not file our federal and state income tax returns on a
consolidated or combined basis with cash payments to us being
limited by our actual cash tax obligations.

Management investments 

In connection with the Transactions, Frank Nasisi, Lynn Amos,
Stefan Geyler and Brad Reed purchased an aggregate of 385
Class A common units of PP Holding, LLC, one of our
stockholders, for an aggregate purchase price of $385,000.
Subsequent to the closing of the Transactions,
Messrs. Nasisi, Amos, Reed and Pierre Hauswald acquired an
additional 450 Class A common units for an aggregate
purchase price of $450,000. The 835 Class A common units
held by Messrs. Nasisi, Amos, Geyler, Reed and Hauswald
represent approximately 1% of the outstanding membership
interests of PP Holding, LLC.

Operating agreement 

In connection with the Transactions, Frank Nasisi, Lynn Amos,
Stefan Geyler, Brad Reed, Pierre Hauswald (which we collectively
refer to as the  management members ), Warburg Pincus
and PP Holding, LLC entered into an operating agreement which
will govern PP Holding, LLC. The operating agreement provides
that Warburg Pincus will be the managing members of PP Holding,
LLC, which we refer to herein as the  managing
members.  Subject to certain customary exceptions, no
management member may transfer any Class A common units or
any interest therein unless the written consent of the managing
members is obtained, and thereafter any proposed transfer by a
management member will be subject to a right of first refusal
running in favor of Warburg Pincus. The operating agreement
provides that Warburg Pincus may transfer its Class A
common units freely, provided that, in the event of certain
types of transfers of Class A common units, the other
members of PP Holding, LLC may participate in such transfers on
a pro rata basis. The operating agreement further provides that,
in the event of certain types of transfers by Warburg Pincus of
our common stock directly owned by Warburg Pincus, PP Holding,
LLC will have the right to, and the managing members will agree
to cause PP Holding, LLC to, participate in such transfers on a
pro rata basis and distribute the proceeds to the holders of
Class A Common Units.

Pursuant to the terms of the operating agreement, without the
consent of the management members, the managing members may
authorize the issuance of additional units, including
Class A common units. In the event the managing members
authorize the issuance of additional Units, under certain
circumstances, the managing members may permit the other members
to participate in such proposed issuance. In the event Warburg
Pincus desires to transfer its Class A common units to
persons who are not affiliates of Warburg Pincus or PP Holding,
LLC, the operating agreement permits Warburg Pincus to cause the
other members of PP Holding, LLC to transfer their Class A
common units for the same consideration proposed to be received
by Warburg Pincus.

Stockholders  agreement 

In connection with the Transactions, our stockholders, Warburg
Pincus and PP Holding, LLC, entered into a stockholders 
agreement which governs our shares of capital stock.

The stockholders  agreement provides that, subject to
certain customary exceptions, in the event that we propose to
issue equity securities, Warburg Pincus and PP Holding, LLC are
entitled to participate in such

81

Table of Contents   

proposed issuance on a pro rata basis. Those participation
rights, and certain other rights granted under the
stockholders  agreement, will terminate automatically upon
the closing of an initial public offering. The stockholders
agreement further provides that until the initial public
offering, Warburg Pincus will have the right to designate a
majority of our board of directors.

Stockholders  registration rights agreement 

In connection with the Transactions, our stockholders and
certain management investors entered into a stockholders 
registration rights agreement, which granted such stockholders
certain customary registration rights, including demand,
piggy-back and Form S-3 registration rights.

Transition services 

In connection with the closing of the Transactions, we entered
into a transition services agreement that expired in 2005 with
The InterTech Group, one of our former stockholders, pursuant to
which InterTech provided us with office space and certain
administrative services. We made payments to Intertech under the
transition services agreement were $32,000 in 2005 and $477,000
in 2004. Prior to the closing of the Transactions, we leased the
same office space and similar administrative services on a month
to month basis, with no written agreement governing the
relationship.

German investments 

Polypore s German subsidiary has equity investments in two
companies that provide patent, trademark and research services
for the Company. The investments represent approximately 25%
ownership in each of the firms and are accounted for by the
equity method of accounting. The equity investment account
balance was $150,000 and $154,000 at December 31, 2005 and
January 1, 2005, respectively. Charges from the affiliates
for work performed were $1,407,000 in 2005, $474,000 for the
period from May 2, 2004 through January 1, 2005,
$523,000 for the period from January 4, 2004 through
May 1, 2004 and $756,000 in 2003. The Company has amounts
due to the affiliates of approximately $84,000 and $357,000 at
December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005, respectively.

Item 14.  
     
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

The following table shows the aggregate fees billed to the
Company by Ernst & Young LLP for fiscal years 2005 and 2004:

(1)  
     
    Audit Fees. This fee category consists of professional services
    rendered for the audit of our annual financial statements,
    review of our quarterly financial statements and services
    normally provided by the independent auditors in connection with
    statutory and regulatory filings, including services associated
    with SEC registration statements, other documents filed with the
    SEC and advice on audit and accounting matters that arose during
    the audit or review of our financial statements. 

(2)  
     
    Audit-Related Fees. This fee category consists of assurance and
    related professional services rendered by Ernst & Young LLP
    that are reasonably related to performing the audit and review
    of our financial statements and are not reported above under
     Audit Fees.  The services for these fees include
    audits of financial statements for the Company s employee
    benefit plans and Transaction related expenses. 

(3)  
     
    Tax Fees. This fee category consists of professional services
    rendered by Ernst & Young LLP for tax return preparation,
    tax compliance and tax planning and advice. 

The Audit Committee has considered whether the non-audit
services provided were compatible with maintaining the principal
auditor s independence and believes that such services and
related fees have not impaired the independence of the
Company s principal auditors. All services provided by
Ernst &

82

Table of Contents   

Young LLP since May 13, 2004, the date of the
Transactions, were pre-approved by the Audit Committee.

Generally, before an independent auditor is engaged by the
Company to render audit or non-audit services, the engagement is
approved by the Audit Committee. Any subsequent changes in
audit, audit-related, tax or other services to be provided by
the independent auditor due to changes in scope of work, terms,
conditions or fees of the engagement must be pre-approved by the
Audit Committee. Requests or applications to provide services
that require specific approval by the Audit Committee will be
submitted to the Audit Committee by both the independent auditor
and the chief financial officer of the Company and must be
consistent with applicable SEC regulations regarding auditor
independence.

Part IV 

Item 15.  
     
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  

(a) Documents filed as part of this report:

1.  Financial Statements.  The following items,
including Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, are
set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

2.  Financial Statement Schedules.  The following
schedule is set forth on page S-1 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Information required by other schedules has either been
incorporated in the consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes or is not applicable to us.

3.  Exhibits. 

83

Table of Contents   

84

Table of Contents   

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Exhibit Description  

10 
     .10* 

Term Sheet for Employment Arrangement, dated as of January 2004,
    by and between Polypore, Inc. and Frank Nasisi (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Company s
    Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on April 18,
    2005 (Commission File No. 333-124142)) 

10 
     .11* 

Form of Director and Officer Indemnification Agreement entered
    into between Polypore, Inc. and certain employees of Polypore,
    Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the
    Company s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on
    April 18, 2005 (Commission File No. 333-124142)) 

10 
     .12 

Second Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of June 15,
    2005, by and among PP Holding Corporation, PP Acquisition
    Corporation, as Borrower, the Several Lenders (as defined
    therein) from time to time parties thereto, General Electric
    Capital Corporation, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and UBS
    Securities LLC, as Documentation Agents, Bear Stearns Corporate
    Lending Inc., as Syndication Agent, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as
    Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Quarterly Report on
    Form 10-Q filed on August 16, 2005) 

10 
     .13* 

Employment Agreement, dated as of July 6, 2005, by and
    between Polypore International, Inc. and Robert B. Toth
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on
    November 15, 2005) 

10 
     .14* 

Employment Agreement, dated as of August 15, 2005, by and
    between Polypore International, Inc. and Frank Nasisi
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on
    November 15, 2005) 

10 
     .15 

Third Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of
    December 19, 2005, by and among PP Holding Corporation, PP
    Acquisition Corporation, as Borrower, the Several Lenders (as
    defined therein) from time to time parties thereto, General
    Electric Capital Corporation, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and
    UBS Securities LLC, as Documentation Agents, Bear Stearns
    Corporate Lending Inc., as Syndication Agent, and JPMorgan Chase
    Bank, as Administrative Agent 

12 
     .1 

Statement Regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
    Charges 

21 
     .1 

Subsidiaries of Polypore International, Inc. 

31 
     .1 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

31 
     .2 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

32 
     .1 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

32 
     .2 

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

*  
     
    Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

85

Table of Contents   

Signatures 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

POLYPORE INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

By:  
     
    /s/ Robert B. Toth 

Robert B. Toth 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Date:                    

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacity and on the dates
indicated.

/s/ Robert B. Toth 
     Robert B. Toth 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal
    Executive Officer) 

March 31, 2006 

/s/ Lynn Amos 
     Lynn Amos 

Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer and
    Principal Accounting Officer) 

March 31, 2006 

/s/ Michael Graff 
     Michael Graff 

Chairman of the Board 

March 31, 2006 

/s/ Frank Nasisi 
     Frank Nasisi 

Vice Chairman of the Board 

March 31, 2006 

/s/ David Barr 
     David Barr 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/ Kevin Kruse 
     Kevin Kruse 

Director 

March 31, 2006 

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED 

WITH REPORTS FILED PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d) OF THE ACT
BY REGISTRANTS 

WHICH HAVE NOT REGISTERED SECURITIES PURSUANT TO
SECTION 12 OF THE ACT 

No annual report or proxy material has been sent to security
holders.

86

Table of Contents   

Polypore International, Inc. 

Financial statement schedule   Valuation and
qualifying accounts 

For the year ended December 31, 2005, the period from
May 2, 2004 through

January 1, 2005, the period from January 4, 2004
through May 1, 2004

and the year ended January 3, 2004

(1)  
     
    Foreign currency translation adjustment. 

(2)  
     
    The amount represents charge-offs net of recoveries. 

(3)  
     
    Utilization and expiration of foreign tax credits that were
    previously considered to be unrealizable and the utilization of
    foreign net operating losses. 

S-1

<EX-10.15>
 2
 g00480exv10w15.htm
 EX-10.15

Ex-10.15 

Exhibit 10.15 

Execution Copy 

THIRD AMENDMENT

THIRD AMENDMENT, dated as of December 13, 2005 (this
  Amendment  ), to the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 13, 2004
(as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the
  Credit Agreement  ), among PP HOLDING CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation (  Holdings  ), POLYPORE, INC. (f/k/a PP Acquisition
Corporation), a Delaware corporation (the   Borrower  ), the
several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to
time parties thereto (the   Lenders  ), GENERAL ELECTRIC CAPITAL
CORPORATION, LEHMAN COMMERCIAL PAPER INC. and UBS SECURITIES LLC, as
co-documentation agents, BEAR STEARNS CORPORATE LENDING INC., as
syndication agent, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as administrative
agent (in such capacity, the   Administrative Agent  ).

W   I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H :

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Lenders have agreed
to make, and have made, certain loans and other extensions of credit to
the Borrower;

WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested, and, upon this Amendment
becoming effective, the Lenders have agreed, that certain provisions of
the Credit Agreement be amended as set forth below;

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

SECTION 1.  Defined Terms . Terms defined in the Credit
Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the
Credit Agreement.

SECTION 2.  Amendment to Section 1.1  Defined Termsl . (a) The
 Applicable Percentage  definition is hereby amended by deleting the two left
columns of the table set forth therein in their entirety (the columns
located under the headings  Eurodollar Spread-Term Loans  and  ABR
Spread-Term Loans ) and substituting in lieu thereof the following two
columns:

(b) The  Pricing Grid  definition is hereby amended by deleting
the table set forth therein in its entirety and substituting in lieu
thereof the following table:

2

(c) The  Consolidated EBITDA  definition is hereby amended by (i)
deleting the term  and  set forth immediately prior to clause (xvi) and inserting in
lieu thereof a  ,  and (ii) inserting the following new language at the end of clause (xvi) thereof immediately
prior to the word   minus  : 

, (xvii) charges related to the shutdown of the cellulosic
business incurred during such period not to exceed $15,000,000 with
respect to cash charges for all periods ( provided , that any
increase in Consolidated EBITDA resulting from this clause (xvii)
shall not be applicable for determining pricing under the  Applicable
Percentage  and  Pricing Grid  definitions) and (xviii) any fees and
expenses payable in connection with the Third Amendment 

(d) The  Excess Cash Flow  definition is hereby amended by (i)
deleting the language set forth in clause (b)(vii) in its entirety and substituting in lieu
thereof the language:  RESERVED , (ii) deleting the term  and  set forth immediately after clause (b)(xvii)
thereof and inserting in lieu thereof a  ,  and (iii) inserting the following language at the end of clause
(b)(xviii) thereof:

and (xix) to the extent included in determining Consolidated
EBITDA pursuant to clause (xvii) of the definition thereof, the
amount of cash charges incurred in connection with the shutdown of
the cellulosic business. 

(e) Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby further
amended by inserting the following defined terms in appropriate alphabetical order:

3

Index Debt Rating  : the rating of senior, unsecured,
long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Borrower.

Moody s  : Moody s Investors Service, Inc.

Moody s Ratings Reduction Event  : the occurrence of either of the
following events: (i) a downgrade in the Index Debt Rating by Moody s below the
Index Debt Rating by Moody s in effect on December 13, 2005 or (ii) the failure
of Moody s to have in effect an Index Debt Rating.

S P  : Standard   Poor s Ratings Services.

S P Ratings Reduction Event  : the occurrence of either of the
following events: (i) a downgrade in the Index Debt Rating by S P below the
Index Debt Rating by S P in effect on December 13, 2005 or (ii) the failure
of S P to have in effect an Index Debt Rating.

Third Amendment  : the Third Amendment to this Agreement,
dated as of December 13, 2005.

SECTION
3.  Amendment to Section 2.11  Prepayment of Term Loan
Borrowings  .
Section 2.1l(a) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such section in
its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following:

(a) (i) The Borrower shall pay to the applicable Lenders, through the
Administrative Agent, on the dates set forth below, or if any such date is not a
Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day (each such date being called a
  Repayment Date  ), a principal amount of the US$ Term Loans (as adjusted
from time to time pursuant to Sections 2.1l(c), 2.12, 2.13(e) and 2.23(d)) of
each such Lender, which shall be in an amount equal to such Lender s US$ Term
Percentage multiplied by the amount set forth below opposite such installment
(together in each case with accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount
to be paid to but excluding the date of such payment):

4

(ii) The Borrower shall pay to the applicable Lenders, through the
Administrative Agent, on the dates set forth below, or if any such date is not a
Business Day, on the next preceding Repayment Date, a principal amount of the
Euro Term Loans (as adjusted from time to time pursuant to Sections 2.11(c),
2.12, 2.13(e) and 2.23(d)) of each such Lender, which shall be in an amount
equal to such Lender s Euro Term Percentage multiplied by the amount set forth
below opposite such installment (together in each case with accrued and unpaid
interest on the principal amount to be paid to but excluding the date of such
payment):

SECTION 4.  Amendment to Section 2.13  Mandatory Prepayments  .
Section 2.13 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting Section 2.13(c) in
its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following:

(c) No later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the
Borrower, the Borrower shall prepay outstanding Term Loans in accordance with
Section 2.13(e) in an aggregate principal amount equal to (x) with respect to
each fiscal year ended on or before December 29, 2007, 75% of Excess Cash Flow
for the fiscal year then ended and (y) with respect to each fiscal year
thereafter, 50% of Excess Cash Flow for the fiscal year then ended;
 provided, however,  that, with respect to clause (y) above (but not
clause (x)), (A) in the event the Leverage Ratio at the end of any such fiscal
year was equal to or less than 3.75 to 1.00 and greater than 3.25 to 1.00, then
such amount shall be reduced to 25% of such Excess Cash Flow and (B) in the
event the Leverage Ratio at the end of any such fiscal year was equal to or less
than 3.25 to 1.00, no such prepayment shall be required. 

5

           SECTION
5.  Amendment to Article II  The Credits  . Article
II of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following
new Sections in appropriate numerical order:

SECTION 2.24.  Pricing Increase Upon a Ratings Reduction
Event . Notwithstanding anything set forth herein to the
contrary, it is understood and agreed that the interest rate
otherwise applicable to any Loan hereunder shall be increased by
(a) 0.25% per annum, for so long as either a Moody s Ratings
Reduction Event or an S P Ratings Reduction Event has occurred and
is continuing or (b) 0.50% per annum, for so long as both a
Moody s Ratings Reduction Event and an S P Ratings Reduction Event
has occurred and is continuing.

SECTION 2.25.  Prepayment Fees . In the event that, on
or before December 13, 2007 (x) any prepayment of the Term Loans
is made pursuant to Section 2.13(d) or (y) the Borrower optionally
prepays the Term Loans with the proceeds from an incurrence of
Indebtedness, the Borrower shall pay to each Term Lender a fee in
an amount equal to the product of (a) 1.00% and (b) the principal
amount of the Term Loans of such Lender so prepaid. 

SECTION 6.  Amendment to Section 6.4  Investments, Loans and
Advances  . Section 6.4 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by
(i) deleting the first two lines set forth in clause (c) thereof
immediately prior to the first proviso therein and substituting in lieu
thereof the language:  loans or advances made by the Borrower or any
Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary , (ii) deleting the
 ,  at the end of clause (c)(i) and substituting in lieu thereof the
word  and , (iii) deleting the word  and  immediately before clause
(c)(iii) and substituting in lieu thereof a  .  and (iv) deleting clause
(c)(iii) thereof in its entirety.

SECTION 7.  Amendment to Section 6.6  Restricted Payments:
Restrictive Agreements  . Section 6.6 of the Credit Agreement is
hereby amended by deleting clauses (a)(iii) through (a)(vii) thereof in
their entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following:

"(iii)  RESERVED 

(iv) the Borrower and Holdings may make Restricted Payments
to Holdings and/or Parent (x) the proceeds of which shall be
applied by Holdings and/or Parent to pay out of pocket general
corporate and overhead expenses incurred by Holdings and/or Parent
not to exceed $2,500,000 during any fiscal year of the Borrower
and (y) in the form of Tax Payments, to the extent directly
attributable to (or arising as a result of) the operations of the
Borrower and the Subsidiaries;  provided ,  however ,
that (A) the amount of such dividends shall not exceed the amount
that the Borrower and the Subsidiaries would be required to pay in
respect of Federal, State and local taxes were the Borrower and
the Subsidiaries to pay such taxes as stand-alone taxpayers, (B)
all Restricted Payments made to Holdings and/or Parent pursuant to
this clause (iv) are used by Holdings and/or Parent for the
purposes specified herein within 20 days of the receipt thereof
and (C) in the case of any Restricted Payment made to Holdings
pursuant to this clause (iv), Holdings owns, beneficially and of
record, 100% of the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the
Borrower at the time of such Restricted Payment;

(v) in addition to the foregoing Restricted Payments and so
long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be
continuing or would result therefrom, the Borrower may make
additional Restricted Payments to Holdings the proceeds of which
may be utilized by Holdings to make additional Restricted
Payments, in an aggregate amount not to exceed 100% of Cumulative
Excess Cash Flow that is Not Otherwise Applied if the Leverage
Ratio as of the last day of any period of four fiscal quarters
ending on or after April 4, 2009 (after giving pro forma effect to
such additional Restricted Payments) was less than 3.25 to 1.00;
 provided , that, for the avoidance

6

of doubt, no Restricted Payments may be made under this Section
6.6(a)(v) on or before April 4, 2009;

(vi)  RESERVED  and

(vii) Holdings, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may make
additional Restricted Payments not in excess of $5,000,000 in the
aggregate so long as no Default or Event of Default shall have
occurred and be continuing or would result therefrom. 

SECTION
8.  Amendment to Section 6.11  Interest Coverage
Ratio  . Section 6.11 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting the table set forth therein in its entirety and substituting
in lieu thereof the following table:

SECTION 9.  Amendment to Section 6.12  Maximum Leverage
Ratio  . Section 6.12 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by
deleting the table set forth therein in its entirety and substituting in
lieu thereof the following table:

7

           SECTION 10.  Amendment to Article 9 of the Credit Agreement . Article 9 of
the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following new Section in
appropriate numerical order:

SECTION 9.20.  Testing of Financial Covenants .
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, it is hereby
understood and agreed that each of the Leverage Ratio and the Interest Coverage
Ratio shall, in addition to the dates on which this Agreement otherwise sets
forth for the calculation of such financial covenants, be tested on January 4,
2009;  provided , that (i) for the purposes of calculating the Leverage
Ratio and the Interest Coverage Ratio as of such date, Consolidated EBITDA shall
be calculated based on the four fiscal quarters of the Borrower ending September
27, 2008, (ii) for the purpose of calculating the Leverage Ratio as of such
date, total Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall be
calculated as of January 4, 2009, (iii) for the purpose of calculating the
Interest Coverage Ratio as of such date, Consolidated Interest Expense shall be
calculated based on the four fiscal quarters of the Borrower ending September
27,2008, (iv) on or before January 5, 2009, a Financial Officer of the Borrower
shall deliver a certificate setting forth computations in reasonable detail
satisfactory to the Administrative Agent demonstrating compliance with such
financial covenants, and (v) for the avoidance of doubt, there shall be no
Default or Event of Default with respect to any noncompliance with the Leverage
Ratio and the Interest Coverage Ratio being tested pursuant to this Section 9.20
until on or after January 4, 2009. 

SECTION 11.  Conditions to Effectiveness of Amendment . The amendments set
forth herein shall be effective on the date on which all of the following conditions
precedent have been satisfied or waived:

(i) the Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received a
counterpart of this Amendment, executed and delivered by a duly authorized
officer of each of (A) Holdings, (B) the Borrower and (C) the Required
Lenders;

(ii) the Administrative Agent shall have received, for the account of
each Lender executing this Amendment on or prior to December 13, 2005, an
amendment fee in an amount equal to 0.25% of the sum of (i) such executing
Lender s Term Loans then outstanding and (ii) such executing Lender s Revolving
Credit Commitment then in effect;

(iii) the Borrower shall have paid all fees and expenses of the
Administrative Agent, including (i) fees separately agreed between the
Borrower and the Administrative Agent and (ii) the reasonable fees and
expenses of counsel to the Administrative Agent; and

(iv) after giving effect to the Amendment, no Default or Event of
Default shall have occurred and be continuing.

8

           SECTION 12.  Representations and Warranties . Each of the
representations and warranties made by each of Holdings and the Borrower in
or pursuant to the Loan Documents shall be true and correct in all material
respects on and as of the date hereof as if made as of the date hereof,
except for representations and warranties expressly stated to relate to a
specific earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties
were true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date;
 provided , that each reference to the Credit Agreement therein shall
be deemed to be a reference to the Credit Agreement after giving effect to
this Amendment.

SECTION
13.  Effect on the Loan Documents . (a) Except as
specifically amended above, the Credit Agreement and all other Loan
Documents shall continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in
all respects ratified and confirmed.

(b) The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment
shall not operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any
Lender or the Administrative Agent under any of the Loan Documents, nor
constitute a waiver of any provision of any of the Loan Documents.

SECTION 14.  Expenses . Holdings and the Borrower agree to pay
or reimburse the Administrative Agent for all of its out-of-pocket costs
and reasonable expenses incurred in connection with this Amendment, any
other documents prepared in connection herewith and the transaction
contemplated hereby, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and
disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent.

SECTION 15.  Affirmation of Guaranty and Credit Agreement . The
Guarantors hereby consent to this Amendment and hereby confirm, reaffirm
and restate that their obligations under or in respect of the Credit
Agreement and the documents related thereto to which they are a party are
and shall remain in full force and effect after giving effect to the
foregoing Amendment.

SECTION 16.  GOVERNING LAW . THIS AMENDMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND
OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HERETO SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND
INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

SECTION 17.  Execution in Counterparts . This Amendment may be
executed by one or more of the parties to this Amendment on any number of
separate counterparts, and all of said counterparts taken together shall
be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.

Remainder of page intentionally left blank.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment
to be duly executed and delivered by their respective proper and duly
authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.

PP HOLDING CORPORATION 

By:   

 /s/
Lynn K. Amos  

Name:   
     Lynn K. Amos 

Title:   
     CFO 

POLYPORE, INC., as Borrower 

By:   

 /s/
Lynn K. Amos  

Name:   
     Lynn K. Amos 

Title:   
     CFO 

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as 
Administrative Agent and a Lender 

By:   

 /s/
Peter A. Dedousis  

Name:   
     Peter A. Dedousis 

Title:   
     Managing Director 

BEAR STEARNS CORPORATE LENDING INC., 
as Syndication Agent and a Lender 

By:   

 /s/
Victor Bulzacchelli  

Name:   
     Victor Bulzacchelli 

Title:   
     Vice President 

GENERAL ELECTRIC CAPITAL CORPORATION, as 
Co-Documentation Agent and a Lender 

By:   

 /s/
Marie G. Mollo  

Name:   
     Marie G. Mollo 

Title:   
     Duly Authorized Signatory 

LEHMAN COMMERCIAL PAPER INC., as 
Co-Documentation Agent and a Lender 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND CONSENT

Each of the undersigned Subsidiary Guarantors hereby acknowledges
and consents to the foregoing Amendment.

DARAMIC, LLC 

By:   

 /s/
Lynn K. Amos  

Name:   
     Lynn K. Amos 

Title:   
     CFO 

DARAMIC INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

By:   

 /s/
Lynn K. Amos  

Name:   
     Lynn K. Amos  

Title:   
     CFO 

POLYPORE HOLDINGS, INC. 

By:   

 /s/
Lynn K. Amos  

Name:   
     Lynn K. Amos  

Title:   
     CFO  

CELGARD, LLC 

By:   

 /s/
Lynn K. Amos  

Name:   
     Lynn K. Amos  

Title:   
     CFO  

DARAMIC ASIA, INC. 

By:   

 /s/
Lynn K. Amos  

Name:   
     Lynn K. Amos  

Title:   
     CFO  

</EX-10.15>

<EX-12.1>
 3
 g00480exv12w1.htm
 EX-12.1

Ex-12.1 

EXHIBIT 12.1 

Polypore International, Inc. 

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

For purposes of computing the ratio of earnings to fixed
charges, earnings consist of earnings before income taxes plus
fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest expense,
amortization of debt issuance costs and the portion of rental
expense that management believes is representative of the
interest component of rental expense.

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 g00480exv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1

Ex-21.1 

EXHIBIT 21.1 

SUBSIDIARIES OF POLYPORE INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

Name of Subsidiary  
       
      State or jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization  

Celgard K.K.

Japan 

Celgard Korea Ltd.(1)

Korea 

Celgard, LLC

Delaware 

Daramic (Shanghi) Battery Separators Col, Ltd.

China 

Daramic (Thailand) Limited

Thailand 

Daramic Asia, Inc.

Delaware 

Daramic Group International, Inc.

U.S. Virgin Islands 

Daramic Holding S.A.

France 

Daramic International, Inc.

Delaware 

Daramic S.A.

France 

Daramic S.r.l.

Italy 

Daramic Separadores de Baterias Ltda.

Brazil 

Daramic, LLC

Delaware 

Membrana GmbH

Germany 

Polypore Acquisition GmbH

Germany 

Polypore B.V.

Netherlands 

Polypore C.V.

Netherlands 

Polypore Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Polypore, Inc.

Delaware 

PP Holding Corporation

Delaware 

Separatorenerzeugung GmbH

Austria 

Separatorenerzeugung Holding GmbH

Austria 

(1)  
     
    Foreign liaison office 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 g00480exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

Ex-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

Polypore International, Inc. 

Chief Executive Officer Certification 

Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of
2002 

I, Robert B. Toth, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Polypore International, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared; 

(b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and 

(c) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

By:  
     
    /s/  Robert B. Toth

Robert B. Toth 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Date: March 31, 2006

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 g00480exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

Ex-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

Polypore International, Inc. 

Chief Financial Officer Certification 

Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of
2002 

I, Lynn Amos, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Polypore International, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared; 

(b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and 

(c) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

By:  
     
    /s/  Lynn Amos

Lynn Amos 

Chief Financial Officer 

Date: March 31, 2006

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 g00480exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

Ex-32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

Polypore International, Inc. 

Chief Executive Officer Certification 

Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Polypore, Inc. (the  Company ) for the period ended
December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), the
undersigned, Robert B. Toth, President and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company, does hereby certify, pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and 

2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents,
    in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
    operations of the Company. 

By:  
     
    /s/  Robert B. Toth

Robert B. Toth 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Date: March 31, 2006

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 g00480exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

Ex-32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2 

Polypore International, Inc. 

Chief Financial Officer Certification 

Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Polypore, Inc. (the  Company ) for the period ended
December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), the
undersigned, Lynn Amos, Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
does hereby certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934; and 

2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents,
    in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
    operations of the Company. 

By:  
     
    /s/  Lynn Amos

Lynn Amos 

Chief Financial Officer 

Date: March 31, 2006

</EX-32.2>

