<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_725460_0001104659-06-021109_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2969015</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>359625</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1697986</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>60</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021109.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331130545
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021109
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LANGER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000725460
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES [3842]
		IRS NUMBER:				112239561
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-12991
		FILM NUMBER:		06727018

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		450 COMMACK ROAD
		CITY:			DEER PARK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			11729
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6136671200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		450 COMMACK ROAD
		CITY:			DEER PARK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			11729

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 IIaz8HmM0dT964kaQ2OaH35Y1LV2MlEpSMW+XCGWJOnuZ6gUy/hdVNTJo/eP52oI
 kdiDVE0XdOZo/U+T2lqLVQ==

 0001104659-06-021109.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-7675_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   WASHINGTON,
D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K   

   x                                  ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 

   For
the year ended December 31, 2005   

   OR   

   o                                     TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 

   Commission
File No. 0-12991   

   LANGER, INC.   

  (Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)  

Delaware   

11-2239561   

(State or other
  jurisdiction  

(I.R.S. employer   

of incorporation
  or organization)  

identification
  number)  

450 Commack Road, Deer Park, New York 11729-4510   

  (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)  

  Registrant s telephone number, including area code:   (631) 667-1200    

  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act:   NONE    

  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of
the Act:  

   Common Stock, par value $0.02 per share   

  (Title of Class)  

  Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act. Yes   o     No   x  

  Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes   o     No   x  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   x     No   o  

  Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. Yes   x     No   o  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).  

  Large accelerated filer   o        Accelerated filer    o        Non-accelerated filer   x  

  Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). Yes   o     No   x  

  As of
June 30, 2005 (  i.e.,   the
last day of registrant s most recently completed second quarter), the aggregate
market value of the common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
$42,584,640, as computed by reference to the closing sale price on the Nasdaq
National Market of such common stock ($6.50) multiplied by the number of shares
of voting stock outstanding on June 30, 2005 held by non-affiliates
(6,551,483 shares). Exclusion of shares from the calculation of aggregate
market value does not signify that a holder of any such shares is an  affiliate 
of the Company.  

  The
number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding at March 15,
2006 was 9,948,623 shares.  

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE   

  The
information required by Part III of this report is incorporated herein by
reference to the Company s proxy statement for the 2006 annual meeting of the
registrant s stockholders, which will be filed not later than 120 days
after the end of the fiscal year covered by this report.  

Langer, Inc.   

   Annual Report on Form 10-K   

   For The Year Ended December 31,
2005   

   Table
of Contents   

Page   

PART I    

ITEM 1.   

BUSINESS   

1  

ITEM
  1A.   

RISK
  FACTORS   

14  

ITEM 1B.   

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   

28  

ITEM 2.   

PROPERTIES   

29  

ITEM
  3.   

LEGAL
  PROCEEDINGS   

29  

ITEM
  4.   

SUBMISSION
  OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

31  

PART II    

ITEM 5.   

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
  STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

32  

ITEM
  6.   

SELECTED
  FINANCIAL DATA   

33  

ITEM 7.   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
  CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

34  

ITEM 7A.   

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
  MARKET RISK        

61  

ITEM 8.   

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

62  

ITEM 9.   

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
  ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   

103  

ITEM 9A.   

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   

103  

ITEM
  9B.   

OTHER
  INFORMATION   

103  

PART III    

ITEM 10.   

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY   

104  

ITEM 11.   

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   

104  

ITEM 12.   

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
  MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   

104  

ITEM 13.   

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   

104  

ITEM 14.   

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   

104  

PART IV    

ITEM 15.   

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

105  

SIGNATURES   

110  

PART I   

     ITEM 1.                    BUSINESS 

     Overview   

  We design, manufacture and distribute a broad range of
medical products targeting the orthopedic, orthotic and prosthetic markets. We
also offer a diverse line of skincare products for the medical, therapeutic and
retail markets. We sell our products primarily in the United States and Canada,
as well as in more than 30 other countries, to national, regional,
international and independent medical distributors and directly to healthcare
professionals.  

  Our broad range of over 500
orthopedic products, including custom foot and ankle orthotic devices,
pre-fabricated foot products, rehabilitation products, and gel-based orthopedic
and prosthetics products, are designed to correct, protect, heal and provide
comfort for the patient. Our line of over 50 skincare products, which include
scar management products and gel-based therapeutic gloves and socks, is
designed to improve skin appearance and transmit moisture agents, vitamins and
nutrients to the skin.  

     Acquisition History   

  In February 2001, an investor group and
management team, led by our current Chairman of the Board of Directors Warren
B. Kanders, our former President and Chief Executive Officer and Director,
Andrew H. Meyers, and former Board of Directors member Gregory R. Nelson,
purchased a controlling interest in Langer, a custom orthotics company
distributing its products primarily to podiatric professionals.  

  The investor group and management team sought Langer
as a platform to pursue a growth strategy in the orthopedic industry. Since
that time, in connection with our growth strategy, we have consummated the
following three strategic acquisitions:  

      Silipos  .   On
September 30, 2004, we acquired Silipos Inc., our largest acquisition
to date, from SSL International plc ( SSL ). Silipos is a leading designer,
manufacturer and marketer of gel-based products focusing on the orthopedic,
orthotic, prosthetic, and skincare markets. We acquired Silipos because of its
distribution channels and proprietary products, and to enable us to expand into
additional product lines that are part of our market focus. The aggregate
consideration paid by us in connection with this acquisition was approximately
$17.3 million, including transaction costs, paid in cash and notes.  

      Bi-Op  .   On
January 13, 2003, we acquired Bi-Op Laboratories, Inc., which is
engaged in the design, manufacture and sale of footwear and foot orthotic
devices as well as orthotic and prosthetic services. We acquired Bi-Op to gain
access to additional markets and complementary product lines. The aggregate
consideration, including transaction costs, was approximately
$2.2 million, paid in cash and shares of our common stock.  

      Benefoot  .   On May 6, 2002, we
acquired the net assets of Benefoot, Inc., and Benefoot Professional
Products, Inc. (together,  Benefoot ). Benefoot designed, manufactured and
distributed custom orthotic, custom Birkenstock     sandals, therapeutic shoes, and prefabricated
orthotic devices to healthcare professionals. We acquired Benefoot to gain additional
scale in our historic custom orthotics business as well as to gain access to
complementary product lines. The aggregate consideration, including transaction
costs, was approximately $7.9 million, consisting of cash, notes, the
assumption of liabilities consisting of approximately $0.3 million of
long-term debt paid at closing and shares of our common stock. 

1     

Our Addressable Markets   

   Orthopedic   

  The orthopedic market we target is comprised of
orthotic devices and prosthetic componentry for non-invasive use. Orthotics are
specialized devices to supplement or support abnormal or weakened limbs or
joints. These devices are specially designed to improve function and correct
injuries or deformities of existing limbs or body parts and can be both custom
designed to individual patient requirements or pre-fabricated for off-the-shelf
use. Orthotic products range from full body spinal orthoses and custom
fabricated arch supports to braces for the back, shoulder, arm or knee; they
may be rigid, semi-rigid, or soft and flexible depending on the requirement of
the patient as evaluated by the doctor treating the patient.  

  Prosthetics involve the design, fabrication and
fitting of artificial limbs for patients who have lost their limbs due to
traumatic injuries, vascular diseases, diabetes, cancer and congenital
diseases. Our target market is comprised of the production and distribution of
the components utilized in the fabrication of these prosthetic devices.
Prosthetic componentry includes external mechanical joints such as hips and
knees, artificial feet and hands, and sheaths and liners utilized as an
interface between the amputee s skin and prosthetic socket.  

  Based on third-party research, we believe that
the global orthopedic markets that we target are expected to grow to
approximately $3.4 billion by the end of 2008.  

  We believe that growth of the orthopedic markets we
target will be driven by the following factors:  

      Aging Population  .   By
2010, it is estimated that the number of people in the United States between
the ages of 40 and 60 will grow from approximately 58 million today to
more than 64 million. With longer life expectancy, expanded insurance
coverage, improved technology and devices, and greater mobility, individuals
are expected to seek orthopedic rehabilitation services and products more
often.  

      Increased Demand
for Non-Invasive Procedures  .   We believe there is growing
awareness and clinical acceptance by patients and healthcare professionals of
the benefits of non-invasive solutions, which should continue to drive demand
for non-operative rehabilitation products.  

      Technological
Sophistication of Orthotic and Prosthetic Devices  .   In recent
years the development of stronger, lighter and cosmetically appealing materials
has led to advancements in design technology, driving growth in the orthotic
and prosthetic industries. A continuation of this trend should enable the
manufacture of new products that provide greater protection and comfort, and
that more closely replicate the function of natural body parts.  

      Need for
Replacement and Continuing Care  .   Most prosthetic orthotic
devices have useful lives ranging from three to five years, necessitating
ongoing warranty replacement and retrofitting for the life of the patient.  

      Growing Emphasis on Physical Fitness, Leisure Sports
and Conditioning  .   As a large number of individuals participate
in athletic activities, many of them suffer strains and injuries, requiring
non-operative orthopedic rehabilitation products.  

   Skincare   

  Skincare products are generally sold in the retail
cosmetic marketplace and include cleansers, toners, moisturizers, exfoliants,
and facial masks. Independent research has reported that moisturizing products
account for the predominant portion of the skincare market. Many of these
products combine traditional moisturizing agents with compounds such as
retinoids, hydroxy acids, and anti-oxidants that smooth and soothe dry skin,
retain water in the outer layer skin cells and help maintain or reinforce the
skin s protective barrier, particularly skin tissue damaged from surgery or
injury.  

2     

Based on third-party research, we believe that
the U.S. skincare moisturizer market is expected to grow to approximately $2.5 billion
by the end of 2008.  

  We believe that growth in
this market will be driven by an aging population, an increasing number of
image-conscious consumers, and the growth and popularity of spas and
body/facial treatment centers.  

     Growth Strategy   

               Gain Access to New Sales Channels and Leverage
Customer Relationships.     We are focused on expanding our
customer base and offering an increasing array of products within our
distribution channels to improve profitability. Our distribution historically
focused on individual podiatry practices while Silipos focuses much of its marketing
efforts on medical distributors. We believe this diversification will
facilitate access to a new customer base for our historical products, as well
as provide the opportunity to offer new products to our existing customers. 

               Continue to Introduce New Products and Product
Enhancements and Improve Manufacturing Operations.     We have a
history of product innovation. Since 2003, we have introduced over 80 new
products, including activity-specific custom orthotics, proprietary
custom ankle-foot orthotics, an enhanced version of our Explorer    mineral oil-based prosthetic liner, the
SoftZone    heel pad product line, and a new line of shock
absorption materials. In September 2005, we introduced our new DuraGel  liner,
an advanced prosthetic liner, which is designed for increased activity and
durability, and skin protection. For the year ended December 31, 2005,
these products accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues. We are also
working to improve the manufacturing process for custom orthotics in an effort
to improve cycle times and production and output consistency, reduce work-in-progress
inventory and lower unit production costs. We believe that new product
introductions and enhancements and operational improvements will further
enhance growth and provide an advantage over our competitors in the future. 

               Increase Penetration in Existing Markets and Expand
into New Markets.     We believe our intellectual property and
research and development capabilities will allow us to increase penetration in
our existing markets and enter new markets. For example, gel technologies
developed by Silipos are used to augment our orthopedic product offerings with
internally developed prosthetic and skincare products. We intend to continue
exploring additional applications of our intellectual property to grow our
business. 

               Acquire  Complementary Businesses.    Since
February 2001, we have consummated three acquisitions. These acquisitions
have increased our net sales by approximately 233% from the fiscal year ended February 28,
2001 to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. We intend to continue our
program of targeted acquisitions, subject to the availability of financing, to
gain access to new sales channels, acquire new product lines, increase
penetration of our existing markets, and gain entry into new market sectors. 

     Competitive Strengths   

    Management
Team.          Our
management team has been involved in the acquisition and integration of a
substantial number of companies. Our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Warren
B. Kanders, brings a track record spanning over 20 years of building
public companies through strategic acquisitions to enhance organic growth. W.
Gray Hudkins, who became our Chief Operating Officer on October 1, 2004,
and our President and Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2006, brings a
strong investment banking background and has been involved in the acquisition
and integration of acquired companies prior to joining us, and since joining us
has played a significant role in the acquisition and the integration of
Silipos. 

3     

Scalable
Infrastructure to Support Growth.          We have recently upgraded our
information technology platform and other back office functions, and we believe
we now have an infrastructure capable of supporting future organic growth and
growth through acquisitions. 

    Strong
Base Business.          We
offer a broad range of over 500 orthopedic products and we believe our brand
names represent a high level of quality in the markets in which we sell. We
also hold approximately 35 patents and patent applications and a number of
trademarks for technologies and brands related to our product offerings. We
believe this combination of diversified products, brands, and intellectual
property provides a competitive advantage in our markets. 

    Strength Across
Distribution Channels.          We
believe we maintain strong relationships across various distribution channels,
including over 4,000 individual practitioners, a network of national, regional,
independent and international distributors, medical catalog companies, group
purchasing organizations, original equipment manufacturers, specialty
retailers, and consumer catalog companies. 

     Products   

    Orthotics.          We manufacture custom orthotic foot
devices, which are contoured molds made from plastic, graphite, or composite
materials, that are placed in the patient s shoe to correct or mitigate
abnormalities in gait and relieve symptoms associated with foot or postural
misalignment. Our product line includes Sporthotics    that are specifically designed for various
athletic activities, fashion oriented orthotics, custom sandals that integrate
an orthotic shell into authentic Birkenstock    components, orthotics for patients who are
prone to pre-ulcerative sites, and controlling devices for patients with more
severe foot abnormalities. In 2002, we introduced a line of custom Ankle-Foot
orthotic devices ( AFO s ), which are used to support the foot/ankle region.
These products are often used for the more difficult and challenging foot and
ankle injuries. In addition, in 2000, we introduced pre-fabricated (non-customized)
orthotic devices for various applications as a cost effective solution for
patients with less complex foot conditions. 

    Gel
Based Orthopedic Products.          We offer gel-based products for the treatment of
common orthopedic and footcare conditions. These products include digitcare
products, diabetes management products, pressure, friction, and shear force
absorption products, products that protect the hands and wrists, and gel
sheeting products for various applications. In all of these products, the gel
interfaces with the skin to provide moisturization and relief from friction,
irritation and pain while aiding in healing of problem areas. 

    Gel
Based Prosthetic Products.          We offer a line of products that are utilized in the
fabrication of a prosthetic device. For example, we offer sheaths and liners
that incorporate a gel interface between the amputee s skin and socket,
providing protection for patients who are subject to significant pressure
between their skin and prosthesis. We also offer liners and sleeves which are
used as part of prosthetic suspension systems to maintain a secure fit while
not limiting flexibility and motion. These products are designed to allow amputees
to maintain more active lifestyles while providing protection from irritation
and infection. 

    PPT
and Other Materials.          PPT
is a medical grade soft tissue cushioning material with a high density,
open-celled urethane foam structure, which provides protection against forces
of pressure, shock and shear. In addition to utilizing PPT in the manufacture
of custom orthotics, we have developed and sell a variety of products
fabricated from PPT, including molded insoles, components for orthotic devices
and laminated sheets. Besides podiatric use, we believe PPT is suitable for
other orthopedic and medical-related uses such as liners for braces and
artificial limbs, as shock absorbers and generally in devices used in sports
and physical therapy. 

4     

Distributed
Products.          We
offer a range of distributed products such as prefabricated rehabilitation
products, compression hose, socks, therapeutic shoes, resting splints, walkers,
and other products for the lower extremities. All of these products are
manufactured by third parties, using the Langer or manufacturer s brand name. 

    Skincare Products.          We offer a range of products for
two primary uses. First, we offer scar management products that utilize mineral
oil-based gel sheeting to moisturize the skin and reduce the appearance of
visible scars developed as a result of procedures such as Cesarean section,
abdominoplasty, breast reduction and reconstruction. We also offer a line of
moisturizing gloves and socks developed for the cosmetics industry utilizing
our proprietary gel technologies. These products are sold under our proprietary
NouveaDerm    brand and also offered to specialty retailers,
spas, health clubs, and catalogs for private label programs. 

     Sales, Marketing and Distribution   

  Our sales, marketing and
distribution is managed through a combination of account managers, product
managers, inside sales representatives, and outside sales representatives who
are regionally and nationally based. We employ international sales and
marketing representatives who represent us in the United Kingdom, Europe, Asia
and Australia. We also utilize educational seminars to educate medical
professionals about our product offerings, followed up with telemarketing
efforts. Our custom and prefabricated orthotics, custom sandals, AFO s, and
distributed products have historically been sold to health care practitioners.
Our PPT and materials products have historically been sold to practitioners,
manufacturers, and shoe fabricators, as well as medical distributors, and our
gel-based products have been sold primarily to medical distributors. As we
continue to integrate our recent Silipos acquisition, we intend to manage our
sales and marketing efforts in a unified effort, and we plan to take advantage
of opportunities to leverage relationships to increase sales and utilize
resources most effectively to increase the exposure of our product lines. In
2005, we were able to create efficiencies and cost savings in our sales and
marketing efforts relative to historic expenditures.  

   Health Care
Practitioners   

  We utilize a network of regional sales representatives
to target multi-practitioner practices and individual facilities. In
addition, we use trade shows, advertising, direct mail, educational seminars,
public relations and customer visits to market and distribute products. We
emphasize customer service by maintaining a staff of customer service
representatives.  

  We provide orthotic and prosthetic education and
training for healthcare professionals who treat biomechanical problems of the
lower extremity through seminars and in-service programs. We offer healthcare
professionals a comprehensive program in biomechanics, gait analysis,
prosthetic componentry, and the cost-effectiveness of orthotic therapy.  

  We promote awareness of
orthotics to medical professionals through marketing and operational
initiatives. We maintain a volume incentive program and offer practice building
assistance to help healthcare professionals expand the ancillary products
portion of their practices. We believe these medical practitioner assistance
programs strengthen our relationships with our existing or potential customer
base.  

   Medical
Distributors   

  Within our gel-based
orthopedic and prosthetic product lines, we distribute through approximately 70
distributors and dealers including national distribution companies, regional
distributors and catalog companies. National distributors typically focus on
several medical specialties and have broad distribution throughout the United
States either through direct marketing via catalogs or through a direct sales
force.   

5     

Regional
distribution companies typically focus on specific medical specialties within
defined geographic regions and may sometimes inventory product on behalf of
manufacturers.  

   Skincare   

  For our skincare product
lines, our account representatives interact directly with specialty retailers,
cosmetics companies, health clubs and spas, and catalog companies. We will
sometimes ship product to customers in bulk for their own packaging pursuant to
private label programs. In other cases, we will package the product ourselves
and sell under our own proprietary brands.  

     Manufacturing and Sourcing   

   Manufacturing   

  We manufacture a large portion of our custom
orthotics, including custom sandals and Ankle-Foot Orthoses, in our fabrication
facility in Deer Park, New York with the remainder produced in facilities in
Anaheim, California, Montreal, Canada and Stoke-on-Trent, England. In our
manufacturing process, medical practitioners will send plaster casts, foam
impressions, or digital images of the patient s foot. Our advanced
manufacturing operation allows plaster models to be digitized, creating an
electronic three-dimensional image of the patient s foot. These images
are then transmitted to milling machines that transform the digital image into
a cast, and the orthotic is molded over the cast. The increased usage of
computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing processes has
increased the efficiency of our fabricating operation and decreased the
turnaround time for orders.  

  We manufacture mineral
oil-based gel and then utilize that gel in our Niagara Falls, New York facility
to manufacture gel-based orthopedic products, including orthotic and prosthetic
products, and skincare products. This manufacturing process includes the
molding of the gels into specific shapes and sometimes the application of gels
to textiles. Our Niagara Falls facility has obtained ISO 9001 certification,
which permits the marketing of our products in certain foreign markets.  

   Sourcing   

  We source our products from a variety of suppliers. We
purchase our therapeutic shoes from shoe manufacturers such as Apex and New
Balance, each of which either manufacture shoes themselves or outsource the
product manufacturing. Our prefabricated rehabilitation soft goods products
such as walkers, resting splints and ankle braces are sourced from contract
manufacturers, some of whom are located in China.  

  Although there are suppliers that supply products or
materials that are material to our business, none of them supply us with
products or materials that we believe could not otherwise be readily purchased
or substituted for from other sources without significant additional expense to
us.  

  We did not renew our
supply agreement with Poly-Gel (when it expired in October of 2004), which
was prior to our acquisition of Silipos, the principal supplier of mineral oil
based gels used in Silipos  gel-based products, and we started manufacturing
the gels on our own. If we were to fail to produce sufficient quantities of
high quality gels, it would hurt our reputation and cause customers to cancel
orders for our gel-based products.  

     Competition   

  The markets for our products are highly competitive,
and we compete with a variety of companies ranging from small businesses to
large corporations. We believe the markets for foot orthotics and off-the-shelf
footcare products are highly fragmented and regional (and in many instances
local) in nature. Although a few licensed medical practitioners produce foot
orthotics in-house, the custom orthotic market   

6     

is serviced primarily by
third-party laboratories. Competitors sell nationally in the United
States under such brands as Bergmann Orthotic Laboratory, Foot Levelers,
Footmaxx Holdings, KLM Orthotic Laboratories, Allied OSI Labs, ProLab Orthotics
and PAL Health Systems. Included in the markets for off-the-shelf footcare
products are participants such as Dr. Scholls, Implus, Spenco and ProFoot.
The market for soft tissue products such as PPT includes brand name products such
as Spenco    ,
Sorbothane    and Poron   . 

  The broadly defined skincare market s products include
lotions, creams, water-based gels, oil-based gels, ointments and other
types of products that transmit moisture, vitamins, minerals, and comfort
agents to the skin. The market for high-end skincare products is dominated by a
number of large multinational companies that sell under brands such as
Shiseido, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, Clarins and Revlon. In addition, a
number of specialty retailers and catalog companies that focus on the skincare
market, such as The Body Shop and L Occitaine, are vertically integrated and
manufacture their own products.  

  In each of our target
markets, the principal competitive factors are product design, innovation and
performance, efficiencies of scale, quality of engineering, brand recognition,
reputation in the industry, production capability and capacity, and price and
customer relations.  

     Patents and Trademarks   

  We hold a variety of
patents, trademarks and copyrights in several countries, including the United
States. We hold approximately 35 patents and patent applications in the U.S.
and certain foreign jurisdictions and a number of trademarks for technologies
and brands related to our product offerings. In addition we have (i) a non
exclusive, paid up (except for certain administrative fees) license with
Applied Elastomerics, Incorporated, dated as of November 30, 2001, as
amended (the  AEI License ), to manufacture and sell certain products using
mineral oil based gels which are manufactured using certain patents; the
license terminates upon the expiration of the patents, which expire between November 16,
2010 and December 3, 2017, and (ii) a license with Gerald Zook
effective as of January 1, 1997, to manufacture and sell certain products
using mineral oil based gels under certain patents and know how in exchange for
sales based royalty payments; the license is exclusive as to certain products
and non-exclusive as to other products, and terminates upon expiration of the
underlying patents, which expire between June 27, 2006 and March 12,
2013. We also have exclusive licenses to three types of orthotic devices which
are patented in the United States and several foreign countries. Other than the
AEI License and the Zook license, we believe that none of our active patents or
licenses is essential to the successful operation of our business as a whole,
although the loss of any patent protection that we have could allow competitors
to utilize techniques developed by us or our licensors. We believe our
trademarks and trade names, including Langer , Sporthotics , PPT , Silipos ,
Explorer Gel Liner , Siloliner , DuraGel , and Silopad , contribute
significantly to brand recognition for our products, and the inability to use
one or more of these names could have a material adverse effect on our
business. For the year ended December 31, 2005, revenues generated by the
products incorporating in the technology licensed under the AEI License
accounted for approximately 40.2% of our revenues.  

     Employees   

  As of March 1, 2006,
we have 335 employees, of which 130 were located in Deer Park, New York, 81
were located in Niagara Falls, New York, 29 were located in Anaheim,
California, 38 were located in Montreal, Canada, 5 were located in Markham,
Ontario, 38 were located in Stoke-on-Trent, England, 8 were located in New
York, New York, and 6 are outside salespeople. None of our employees are
represented by unions or covered by any collective bargaining agreements. We
have not experienced any work stoppages or employee-related
slowdowns and believe that our relationship with employees is satisfactory.  

7     

Government Regulation   

   Medical Device
Regulation   

    United
States.          Our
products and operations are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug
Administration, or FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, state authorities
and comparable authorities in foreign jurisdictions. The FDA regulates the
research, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping,
premarket clearance or approval, promotion, distribution and production of
medical devices in the United States to ensure that medical products
distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. In
addition, the FDA regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the
United States to international markets. Under the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, medical devices are classified into one of three
classes Class I, Class II or Class III (described below) depending
on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of
control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Our products are generally Class I
devices, with the exception of certain gel sheeting and prosthetic devices
which are Class II devices. The FTC regulates product advertising to help
ensure that claims are truthful and non-misleading. 

  Class I devices are subject to the lowest degree
of regulatory scrutiny because they are considered low risk devices. FDA
requires Class I devices to comply with its General Controls, which
include compliance with the applicable portions of the FDA s Quality System
Regulation, or QSR, facility registration and product listing, reporting of
adverse medical events, and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling,
advertising, and promotional materials. Most Class I devices are not
required to submit 510(k) premarket notifications, but all are subject to
FDA s general misbranding and adulteration prohibitions.  

  Class II devices are subject to the General
Controls as well as certain Special Controls such as performance standards,
post-market surveillance, and patient registries to assure the device s safety
and effectiveness. Class II devices also typically require the submission
and clearance of a 510(k) premarket notification prior to marketing.
Unless a specific exemption applies, 510(k) premarket notification
submissions are subject to user fees. When a 510(k) premarket notification
is required, the manufacturer must submit information to the FDA demonstrating
that the device is  substantially equivalent  to a  predicate device  which is
either a device that was legally marketed prior to May 28, 1976 (the date
upon which the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 were enacted) or another
commercially available, similar device that was subsequently cleared through
the 510(k) process.  

  If the FDA agrees that the device is substantially
equivalent, it will grant a clearance order to allow the commercial marketing
of the device in the U.S. By statute, the FDA is required to clear a
510(k) premarket notification within 90 days of submission of the
application. As a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. If the FDA
determines that the device, or its intended use, is not  substantially
equivalent  to a previously-cleared device or use, the FDA will place the
device, or the particular use of the device, into Class III, and the
device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous premarketing requirements which
may include the submission of a premarket approval application or the
submission of a reclassification petition seeking de novo review of the device
and placement into Class I or Class II. There can be no assurance
that we will receive 510(k) clearances within 90 days of submission
or that we will be successful in obtaining future 510(k) clearances for
any of our products, which could have a materially adverse effect on us.  

8  

Class III devices are
subject to the highest level of regulatory scrutiny and typically include life
support and life sustaining devices and implants as well as devices with a new
intended use or technological characteristics that are not substantially equivalent
to a use or technology currently being legally marketed. A premarket approval
application, or  PMA,  must be submitted and approved by FDA before marketing
in the U.S.  

  The FDA will grant a PMA
approval if it finds that the safety and effectiveness of the product have been
sufficiently demonstrated and that the product complies with all applicable
regulations and standards. The FDA may require further clinical evaluation of
the product, terminate the clinical trials, grant premarket approval but restrict
the number of devices distributed, or require additional patient follow-up for
an indefinite period of time. There can be no assurance that we will be
successful in obtaining a PMA for any Class III products, which is
necessary before marketing a Class III product in the U.S. Delays in
obtaining marketing approvals and clearances in the U.S. could have a material
adverse effect on us. Unless an exemption applies, PMA submissions also are
subject to user fees.  

  The FDA, by statute and by
regulation, has 180-days to review a PMA that has been accepted for
filing, although the review of an application more often occurs over a
significantly longer period of time, and can take several years. In approving a
PMA application or clearing a 510(k) premarket notification application,
the FDA may also require some form of post-market surveillance when the agency
determines it to be necessary to protect the public health or to provide
additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. In such cases, the
manufacturer might be required to follow certain patient groups for a number of
years and to make periodic reports to the FDA on the clinical status of those
patients. Medical devices can be marketed only for the indications for which
they are cleared or approved. Modifications to a previously cleared or approved
device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that
would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture
require the submission of a new 510(k) premarket notification, a premarket
approval supplement or a new premarket approval application. We have modified
various aspects of our devices in the past and determined that new approvals,
clearances or supplements were not required or we filed a new 510(k) or a
PMA supplement. Nonetheless, the FDA may disagree with our conclusion that
clearances or approvals were not required for particular products and may
require approval or clearances for such past or any future modifications or to
obtain new indications for our existing products. Such submissions may require
the submission of additional clinical or preclinical data and may be time
consuming and costly, and may not ultimately be cleared or approved by the FDA.  

  Our manufacturing
processes are required to comply with the applicable portions of the QSR, which
covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production,
processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of our
products. The QSR also, among other things, requires maintenance of a device
master record, device history record, and complaint files. Our domestic
facility records and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic
unscheduled inspections by the FDA to assure compliance with the FFDCA and the
regulations thereunder. Based on internal audits of our domestic facilities, we
believe that our facilities are in substantial compliance with the applicable
QSR regulations. We also are required to report to the FDA if our products
cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that
would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury were the
malfunction to recur. Although medical device reports have been submitted in
the past 5 years, none have resulted in a recall of our products or other
regulatory action by the FDA. The FDA and authorities in other countries can
require the recall of products in the event of material defects or deficiencies
in design or manufacturing. The FDA can also withdraw or limit our product
approvals or clearances in the event of serious, unanticipated health or safety
concerns. We may also be required to submit reports to FDA of corrections and
removals. Separately, we may on our own choose to conduct a voluntary market
withdrawal in situations that do not require a recall, correction or removal.
FDA could disagree with this characterization and require the reporting of a
correction or removal.  

9     

The FDA has broad
regulatory and enforcement powers. If the FDA determines that we have failed to
comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it can impose a variety of
enforcement actions from public warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent
decrees and civil penalties to suspension or delayed issuance of approvals,
seizure or recall of our products, total or partial shutdown of production,
withdrawal of approvals or clearances already granted, and criminal
prosecution. The FDA can also require us to repair, replace or refund the cost
of devices that we manufactured or distributed. If any of these events were to
occur, it could materially adversely affect us.  

  Legal restrictions on the
export from the United States of any medical device that is legally distributed
in the United States are limited. However, there are restrictions under U.S.
law on the export from the United States of medical devices that cannot be
legally distributed in the United States. If a Class I or Class II
device does not have 510(k) clearance, and the manufacturer reasonably
believes that the device could obtain 510(k) clearance in the United
States, then the device can be exported to a foreign country for commercial
marketing without the submission of any type of export request or prior FDA
approval, if it satisfies certain limited criteria relating primarily to
specifications of the foreign purchaser and compliance with the laws of the
country to which it is being exported (Importing Country Criteria). We believe
that all of our current products which are exported to foreign countries
currently comply with these restrictions.  

    International.          In many of the foreign countries in
which we market our products, we are subject to similar regulatory requirements
concerning the marketing of new medical devices. The regulations affect, among
other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements,
import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. The
regulation of our products in Europe falls primarily within the European
Economic Area, which consists of the fifteen member states of the European
Union as well as Iceland, Lichtenstein and Norway. The legislative bodies of
the European Union have adopted three directives in order to harmonize national
provisions regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling and
adverse event reporting for medical devices: the Council Directives 90/385/EEC
(Actives Implantables Directive); 93/42/EEC (Medical Device Directive); and
98/79/EC (In-Vitro-Diagnostics Directive). The member states of the
European Economic Area have implemented the directives into their respective
national law. Medical devices that comply with the essential requirements of
the national provisions and the directives will be entitled to bear a CE
marking. Unless an exemption applies, only medical devices which bear a CE
marking may be marketed within the European Economic Area. There can be no
assurance that we will be successful in obtaining CE marks for our products in
a timely manner, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the
market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 

  The European
Standardization Committees have adopted numerous harmonized standards for
specific types of medical devices. Compliance with relevant standards
establishes the presumption of conformity with the essential requirements for a
CE marking and we are subject to conformity audits at any time.  

  Post market surveillance
of medical devices in the European Economic Area is generally conducted on a
country-by-country basis. The requirement within the member states of the
European Economic Area vary. Due to the movement towards harmonization of
standards in the European Union and the expansion of the European Union, we
expect a changing regulatory environment in Europe characterized by a shift
from a country-by-country regulatory system to a European Union-wide single
regulatory system. The timing of this harmonization and its effect on us cannot
currently be predicted.  

  In Canada, the Medical
Devices Regulations of the Medical Device Bureau, Therapeutic Products Directorate
of Health Canada ( TPD ), set out the requirements governing the sale,
importation and advertisement of medical devices. The regulations are intended
to ensure that medical devices distributed in Canada are both safe and
effective. The Canadian medical device classification system is broadly similar
to the classification systems in place in the European Union and the United
States and is based on a Class I to Class IV risk-based
classification system, with Class I being the lowest risk and Class IV
being   

10     

the
highest. The TPD has provided a comprehensive set of rules determining the
classification of a device, and, ultimately, the responsibility of
classification lies with the manufacturer or importer. The TPD has provided a
database of common devices and their risk classifications for reference.
Devices that are Class II, III and IV are required to have a device
license. Class I devices are not so required. Device licenses must be
obtained from the TPD before the sale of the device, effectively creating a
premarket approval regime for these categories. Many non-invasive are
classified as Class I devices requiring only an establishment license,
while manufacturers of Class II, III and IV devices do not. Effective
January 1, 2003, new Canadian regulatory quality systems requirements for
medical devices took effect applying established quality standards to all
Canadian and foreign manufacturers holding Class II, III and IV
medical device licenses, and all Canadian and foreign manufacturing applying
for Class II, III and IV medical licenses. These quality system
regulations require Class II medical devices to be manufactured under
CAN/CSA ISO 13488-1998, and Class III and IV medical devices to be
designed and manufactured under CAN/CSA ISO 13485-1998. There are no
regulatory quality system requirements for Class I medical devices.  

   Skincare Product Regulation   

  Our Skincare products are
subject to regulation by the FDA, FTC, and various other federal, state, and
foreign governmental authorities. Depending upon product claims and
formulation, skincare products may be regulated as cosmetics, drugs or devices.
Our skincare products are primarily regulated as cosmetics, with the exception
of the scar management gel sheeting which are medical devices because of their
mode of use.  

  There are fewer regulatory
requirements for cosmetic products than for drugs or medical devices. Cosmetics
marketed in the United States must comply with the FFDCA, the Fair Packaging
and Labeling Act, and the FDA s implementing regulations. Cosmetics must also
comply with FDA s ingredient, quality, and labeling requirements and the FTC s
requirements pertaining to truthful and non-misleading advertising. FDA or FTC
could disagree with our characterization of our skincare products or product
claims. This could result in a variety of enforcement actions which could
require the reformulation or relabeling of our products, the submission of
information in support of the products  claims or the safety and effectiveness
of our products, or more punitive action, all of which could have a material
adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business,
financial condition and results of operations.  

   Federal Privacy and Transaction Law and Regulations   

  Other federal legislation
requires major changes in the transmission and retention of health information
by us. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or
HIPAA, mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards for the
electronic exchange of health information that may require significant and
costly changes to current practices. Sanctions for failure to comply with HIPAA
include civil penalties of $100 per violation (up to $25,000 per year) and
criminal penalties of up to $250,000 and 10 years in jail. The United States
Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, has released rules mandating
the use of new standards with respect to certain healthcare transactions and
health information.  

   Third-Party Reimbursement   

  Some of our products are
prescribed by physicians or other health care service providers and are
eligible for third-party reimbursement. An important consideration for
our business is whether third-party payment amounts will be adequate,
since this is a factor in our customers  selection of our products. We believe
that third-party payers will continue to focus on measures to contain or
reduce their costs through managed care and other efforts. Medicare policies
are important to our business because third-party payers often model
their policies after the Medicare program s coverage and reimbursement
policies.  

  Healthcare reform
legislation in the Medicare area has focused on containing healthcare spending.
On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003, or   

11     

Modernization
Act, was enacted, which provides for revisions to payment methodologies and
other standards for items of durable medical equipment and orthotic devices
under the Medicare program. First, beginning in 2004 through 2008, the payment
amounts for orthotic devices (2004 through 2006) and durable medical equipment
(2004 through 2008) will no longer be increased on an annual basis. Second,
beginning in 2007, a competitive bidding program will be phased in to replace
the existing fee schedule payment methodology. Off-the-shelf orthotic devices
and other non-Class III devices are subject to the program. The
competitive bidding program will begin in ten high population metropolitan
statistical areas and in 2009 will be expanded to 80 metropolitan statistical
areas (and additional areas thereafter). Payments in regions not subject to
competitive bidding may also be adjusted using payment information from regions
subject to competitive bidding. Third, supplier quality standards are to be
established which will be applied by independent accreditation organizations.
Fourth, clinical conditions for payment will be established for certain
products.  

  In recent years, efforts
to control Medicare costs have included the heightened scrutiny of
reimbursement codes and payment methodologies. Under Medicare, certain devices
used by outpatients are classified using reimbursement codes, which in turn
form the basis for each device s Medicare payment levels. Changes to the
reimbursement codes describing our products can result in reduced payment
levels or the breadth of products for which reimbursement can be sought under
recognized codes.  

  On February 11, 2003,
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, made effective an
interim final regulation implementing  inherent reasonableness  authority,
which allows the agency and contractors to adjust payment amounts by up to 15%
per year for certain items and services when the existing payment amount is
determined to be grossly excessive or grossly deficient. The regulation lists
factors that may be used by CMS and its contractors to determine whether an
existing reimbursement rate is grossly excessive or grossly deficient and to
determine a realistic and equitable payment amount. CMS may make a larger
adjustment each year if it undertakes prescribed procedures. The regulation
remains in effect after the Modernization Act, although the use of inherent
reasonableness authority is precluded for devices provided under competitive
bidding. We do not know what impact inherent reasonableness and competitive
bidding would have on us or the reimbursement of our products.  

  Beyond changes in
reimbursement codes and payment methodologies, the movement, both domestically
and in foreign countries, toward healthcare reform and managed care may
continue to result in downward pressure on product pricing.  

   Fraud and Abuse   

  We are subject to various
federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including
anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws
are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances,
exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs,
including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs and
TRICARE. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with such
laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be
no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our
practices to be deemed to be in compliance with these laws. In addition, there
can be no assurance that the occurrence of one or more violations of these laws
or regulations would not result in a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.  

   Anti-kickback and Fraud Laws   

  Our operations are subject
to federal and state anti-kickback laws. Certain provisions of the Social
Security Act, which are commonly known collectively as the Medicare Fraud and
Abuse Statute, prohibit persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting,
receiving, offering or providing remuneration directly or indirectly to induce
either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending, or
arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal
healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. The definition of  remuneration 
has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value,   

12     

including
such items as gifts, discounts, waiver of payments, and providing anything at
less than its fair market value. HHS has issued regulations, commonly known as
safe harbors that set forth certain provisions which, if fully met, will assure
healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under
the Medicare Fraud and Abuse Statute. Although full compliance with these
provisions ensures against prosecution under the Medicare Fraud and Abuse
Statute, the failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit within a specific
safe harbor does not necessarily mean that the transaction or arrangement is
illegal or that prosecution under the Medicare Fraud and Abuse Statute will be
pursued. The penalties for violating the Medicare Fraud and Abuse Statute
include imprisonment for up to five years, fines of up to $25,000 per violation
and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and
Medicaid. Many states have adopted prohibitions similar to the Medicare Fraud
and Abuse Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for
healthcare services reimbursed by any source, not only by the Medicare and
Medicaid programs.  

  HIPAA created two new
federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare
matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully
executing or attempting to execute a scheme or artifice to defraud any
healthcare benefit program, including private payers. The false statements
statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up
a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent
statement or representation in connection with the delivery of or payment for
healthcare benefits, items or services. This statute applies to any health
benefit plan, not just Medicare and Medicaid. Additionally, HIPAA granted
expanded enforcement authority to HHS and the United States Department of
Justice, or DOJ, and provided enhanced resources to support the activities and
responsibilities of the OIG and DOJ by authorizing large increases in funding
for investigating fraud and abuse violations relating to healthcare delivery
and payment.  

   Physician Self-Referral Laws   

  We are also subject to
federal and state physician self-referral laws. Federal physician self-referral
legislation (commonly known as the Stark Law) prohibits, subject to certain
exceptions, physician referrals of Medicare and Medicaid patients to an entity
providing certain  designated health services  if the physician or an immediate
family member has any financial relationship with the entity. The Stark Law
also prohibits the entity receiving the referral from billing any good or
service furnished pursuant to an unlawful referral, and any person collecting
any amounts in connection with an unlawful referral is obligated to refund such
amounts. A person who engages in a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law s
referral prohibition may be fined up to $100,000 for each such arrangement or
scheme. The penalties for violating the Stark Law also include civil monetary
penalties of up to $15,000 per service and possible exclusion from federal
healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Various states have
corollary laws to the Stark Law, including laws that require physicians to
disclose any financial interest they may have with a healthcare provider to
their patients when referring patients to that provider. Both the scope and
exceptions for such laws vary from state to state.  

   False Claims Laws   

  Under separate statutes,
submission of claims for payment that are  not provided as claimed  may lead to
civil money penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from
participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded state health
programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act,
which prohibits the knowing filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false
statements to obtain payment from the federal government. When an entity is
determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it must pay three times the
actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of
between $5,000 and $10,000 for each separate false claim. Suits filed under the
False Claims Act, known as  qui tam  actions, can be brought by any individual
on behalf of the government and such individuals (known as  relators  or, more
commonly, as  whistleblowers ) may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the
government in fines or settlement. In addition, certain states have   

13     

enacted
laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. Qui tam actions have increased
significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies
to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the
Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs as a result of
an investigation arising out of such action.  

     Seasonality   

  Revenue derived from our
sales of orthotic devices in North America has historically been significantly
higher in the warmer months of the year, while sales of orthotic devices by our
United Kingdom subsidiary have historically not evidenced any seasonality.
Other factors which can result in quarterly variations include the timing and
amount of new business generated by us, the timing of new product
introductions, our revenue mix, the timimg of additional selling, general and
administrative expenses to support the anticipated growth and development of
new business units and the competitive and fluctuating economic conditions in
the orthopedic and skincare industries.  

     Inflation   

  We have in the past been
able to increase the prices of our products or reduce overhead costs
sufficiently to offset the effects of inflation on wages, materials and other
expenses.  

    Special
Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements    

  Information contained or
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in
other SEC filings by the Company, in press releases, and in presentations by the
Company or its management, contains  forward-looking statements  within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which can
be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as  believes, 
 expects,   plans,   intends,   estimates,   projects,   could,   may,   will, 
 should,  or  anticipates  or the negatives thereof, other variations thereon
or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. No assurance can be
given that future results covered by the forward-looking statements will
be achieved, and other factors could also cause actual results to vary
materially from the future results covered in such forward-looking
statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited
to, those relating to the Company s financial and operating prospects, future
opportunities, ability to retain existing customers and attract new ones, the
Company s acquisition strategy and ability to integrate acquired companies and
assets, outlook of customers, reception of new products and technologies, and
strength of competition and pricing. In addition, such forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors
which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company
to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by such
forward-looking statements. Also, the Company s business could be
materially adversely affected and the trading price of the Company s common
stock could decline if any such risks and uncertainties develop into actual
events. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise
forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the
date of this Form 10-K or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated
events.  

     ITEM 1A.            RISK
FACTORS 

  In addition to other
information in this Annual Report on the Form 10-K, the following
risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business, because
such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results,
liquidity and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth
below, actual results could differ materially from those mentioned in any
forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not
presently known to us, or that we currently consider to be immaterial, may also
impact our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. If
any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results, liquidity
and financial condition, and the price of our common stock, could be materially
adversely affected.  

14     

Risks
Related to Our Operations   

     We
have a history of net losses and may incur additional losses in the future.   

  We have a history of net
losses. In order for us to achieve and maintain consistent profitability from
our operations, we must continue to achieve product revenue at or above current
levels. We may increase our operating expenses as we attempt to expand our
product lines and acquire other businesses and products. As a result, we may
need to increase our revenues significantly to achieve sustainable
profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sustainable
profitability. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on the
market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and
results of operations.  

     Our
business plan relies on certain assumptions for the market for our products
which, if incorrect, may adversely affect our profitability.   

  We
believe that various demographics and industry-specific trends will help
drive growth in the orthopedic, orthotic, prosthetic and skincare markets,
including:  

             an
aging population with broad medical coverage, increased disposable income and
longer life expectancy; 

             a
growing emphasis on physical fitness, leisure sports and conditioning, which
will continue to lead to increased injuries; and 

             increasing
awareness and use of non-invasive devices for prevention, treatment and
rehabilitation purposes. 

  These demographics and
trends are uncertain. The projected demand for our products could materially
differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these factors prove to
be incorrect or do not materialize, or if alternative treatments to those
offered by our products gain widespread acceptance.  

     There
are significant risks associated with our strategy of acquiring and integrating
businesses.   

  A key
element of our strategy is the acquisition of businesses and assets that will
complement our current business, increase size, expand our geographic scope of
operations, and otherwise offer growth opportunities. We may not be able to
successfully identify attractive acquisition opportunities, obtain financing
for acquisitions, make acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or successfully
acquire and/or integrate identified targets. Additionally, competition for
acquisition opportunities in our industry may escalate, which would increase
the costs to us of completing acquisitions or prevent us from making
acquisitions. Our ability to implement our acquisition strategy is also subject
to other risks and costs, including:  

             loss
of key employees, customers or suppliers of acquired businesses; 

             diversion
of management s time and attention from our core businesses; 

             adverse
effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; 

             our
ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies, or other benefits
expected from an acquisition; 

             risks
associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no experience; and 

             assumption
of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets. 

  In addition, in connection
with our recent acquisition of Silipos, we face the risk of incurring potential
liabilities of Silipos which may not be covered by the limited indemnification
in the Silipos Purchase Agreement, as defined later in this document.  

  The above risks could have
a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  

15  

We
may not be able to adequately manage our growth.   

  We have expanded, and are
seeking to continue to expand, our business. This growth has placed significant
demands on our management, administrative, operating and financial resources.
The continued growth of our customer base, the types of products offered and
the geographic markets served can be expected to continue to place a
significant strain on our resources. Personnel qualified in the production and
marketing of our products are difficult to find and hire, and enhancements of
information technology systems to support growth are difficult to implement.
Our future performance and profitability will depend in large part on our
ability to attract and retain additional management and other key personnel. In
addition, although we have recently implemented a new information technology
platform, we cannot assure you that the new system will be effective in
accommodating our growing accounting, financial and information needs. Any
failure to adequately manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on
the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and
results of operations.  

     A
write-off of intangible assets would adversely affect our results of
operations.   

  Our total assets include
substantial intangible assets, including goodwill acquired in connection with
the acquisitions of Benefoot, Bi-Op and Silipos representing the excess of cost
over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired. We expect to incur
additional goodwill in connection with other acquisitions we make in the
future. We evaluate on a regular basis whether events and circumstances have
occurred that indicate that all or a portion of the carrying amount of the
goodwill or other intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, in which case
a charge to earnings would be required. In the year ended December 31,
2005, we recorded a provision for impairment totalling $2,102,000 with respect
to certain identifiable intangible assets. Any determination requiring another
write-off of a significant portion of other unamortized intangible assets would
be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock.  

     Our
business is highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully, our sales
and operating results may be negatively affected and we may not achieve future
growth.   

  The orthopedic, orthotic,
prosthetic and skincare markets are highly competitive. Certain of our
competitors in these markets have more resources and experience as well as more
recognizable trademarks for products similar to those sold by us. In addition,
the market for orthopedic devices and related products is characterized by new
product development and corresponding obsolescence of existing products. Our
competitors may develop new techniques, therapeutic procedures or alternative
products that are more effective than our current technology or products or
that render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive, which could
cause a decrease in orders for our custom orthotic products. Such decreases
would have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock
and our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

  We may not be able to
develop successful new products or enhance existing products, obtain regulatory
clearances and approval of such products, market such products in a
commercially viable manner or gain market acceptance for such products. Failure
to develop, license or market new products and product enhancements could
materially and adversely affect our competitive position, which could cause a
significant decline in our sales and profitability.  

  We expect that the level
of competition faced by us may increase in the future. Some competitors have
substantially greater financial, marketing, research and technical resources
than us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete
successfully in the orthopedic, orthotic, prosthetic and skincare markets. Any
such failure could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our
common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

16     

We
may not be able to raise adequate financing to fund our operations and growth
prospects.   

  Our acquisition and
product expansion programs, debt servicing requirements, and existing operations
will require substantial capital resources. Currently, we do not have a working
capital facility or revolving line of credit with a financial institution for
additional borrowings. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able
to generate sufficient operating cash flow or obtain sufficient additional
financing to meet these requirements. If we do not have adequate resources and
cannot obtain additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all, we may be
required to reduce operating costs by altering and delaying our business plan
or otherwise radically altering our business practices. Failure to meet our
future capital requirements could have a material adverse effect on the market
price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of
operations.  

     We
may be adversely affected by legal actions or proceedings.   

  On April 21, 2005,
Thermo-Ply, Inc., a Florida corporation, filed an action in the United
States District Court for the Middle District of Florida (Tampa Division)
against Silipos and four other defendants. The action asserts a claim for
alleged infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,231,617. Although not
specifically identified by the claim, we believe that the claim, insofar as it
relates to us, may be directed towards the Explorer Gel Liners manufactured,
distributed and sold by Silipos. We are currently investigating the validity of
this claim. Should the plaintiff be successful in pressing this claim, Silipos
could be enjoined from making, using or selling the accused products and could
also be assessed damages for the alleged infringement, which damages could be
increased up to three times in the event the infringement is found to be
willful, together with attorney fees and certain costs. The parties are
currently discussing a settlement of the action, although no assurance can be
given that such discussions will lead to a settlement favorable to the Company.
Pursuant to the Silipos stock purchase agreement, SSL has agreed to fund any
obligations resulting from the settlement over $150,000, which we had accrued
or paid as of December 31, 2005.  

  In addition, in connection
with our acquisition of Silipos, we could become subject to certain claims or
actions brought by Poly-Gel, L.L.C. ( Poly-Gel ), Silipos  former
supplier of mineral oil based gels, although no such claims have been brought
to date. These claims may arise, for example, out of the supply agreement
between Silipos and Poly-Gel dated August 20, 1999, the manufacture,
marketing or sale of products made from gel not purchased from Poly-Gel,
alleged misappropriation of trade secrets or other confidential information
(including gel formulations) of Poly-Gel, as well as any other alleged
violations of the supply agreement (the  Potential Poly-Gel Claims ). For
any of these potential claims, SSL, the seller of Silipos, has agreed to
indemnify us for losses up to $2.0 million, after which we would be liable
for any such claims. Furthermore, we have assumed responsibility for the first
$150,000 of any other liability in connection with our acquisition of Silipos,
and SSL s maximum liability for total indemnification related to our
acquisition of Silipos is between $5,000,000 and $7,000,000. Thus, if the total
amount of all claims arising from the acquisition exceed this maximum, whether
or not related to Poly-Gel, we would be liable for amounts in excess of the
maximum. For claims arising out of conduct that occurs after the closing of the
Silipos transaction on September 30, 2004, we have agreed to indemnify SSL
against losses. We would expect to vigorously defend against any claims brought
by Poly-Gel or any other third party. However, if such claims were
brought, we may not ultimately prevail.  

  On or about February 13, 2006, Dr. Gerald P.
Zook filed a demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association,
naming the Company and Silipos as 2 of the 16 respondents. (Four of the other
respondents are the former owners of Silipos and its affiliates, and the other
10 respondents are unknown entities.) 
The demand for arbitration alleges that the Company and Silipos are in
default of obligations to pay royalties in accordance with the terms of a
license agreement between Dr. Zook and Silipos dated as of January 1,
1997, with respect to seven patents owned by Dr. Zook and licensed to
Silipos. Silipos has paid royalties to Dr. Zook, but Dr. Zook claims
that greater royalties are owed. The demand for arbitration   

17     

seeks an award of $400,000
and reserves the right to seek a higher award after completion of discovery.
The Company and Silipos intend to vigorously defend the claim.  

  On or about
February 23, 2006, Silipos commenced an action in New York State Supreme
Court, New York County, against Mr. Peter D. Bickel, who was the executive
vice president of Silipos, Inc., until January 11, 2006. In the
action, Silipos seeks, among other things, a declaratory judgment that
Mr. Bickel is not entitled to severance pay or other benefits, on account
of his breach of various provisions of his employment agreement with Silipos
and his non-disclosure agreement with Silipos, and that his termination by
Silipos was for  cause  as defined in the employment agreement. Silipos is also
seeking an aggregate of $12 million in compensatory and punitive damages for
breaches of the employment agreement, breach of the non-disclosure agreement,
breach of fiduciary duties, misappropriation of trade secrets, and tortious
interference with business relationships. No assurance can be given that
Silipos will be successful in recovering all or any portion of this amount. On
or about March 22, 2006, Mr. Bickel removed the lawsuit to the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York and filed an answer
denying the material allegations of the complaint and counterclaims seeking a
declaratory judgment that his non-disclosure agreement is unenforceable and
that he is entitled to $500,000, representing two years  base salary, in
severance compensation, on the ground that Silipos did not have  cause  to
terminate his employment. Silipos intends to vigorously defend these
counterclaims.  

  Additionally, in the
normal course of business, we may be subject to claims and litigation in the
areas of general liability, including claims of employees, and claims,
litigation or other liabilities as a result of acquisitions we have completed.
The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict and we cannot provide
you with any assurance that an action or proceeding will not be commenced
against us, or that we will prevail in any such action or proceeding. An
unfavorable outcome of the arbitration proceeding commenced by Dr. Gerald
P. Zook against us and Silipos, may adversely affect our rights to manufacture
and/or sell certain products or raise the royalty costs of those certain
products.  

  An unfavorable resolution
of any legal action or proceeding could materially adversely affect the market
price of our common stock and our business, results of operations, liquidity or
financial condition.  

     Our
existing purchasing arrangements may be adversely affected if we are unable to
maintain good relations with our suppliers.   

  Our ability to sustain our
gross margins has been and will continue to be dependent, in part, on our
ability to maintain satisfactory terms with the third-party manufacturers
of certain raw materials. These terms may be adversely impacted by changes in
our suppliers  strategies or changes in our relationship with our suppliers. We
cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain satisfactory terms with our
suppliers. Our inability to maintain such terms, the loss of any of our key
suppliers, or any other interruption or delay in the supply of our required
materials. or our inability to obtain these materials at acceptable prices or
within a reasonable amount of time could impair our ability to meet scheduled
product deliveries to our customers and could hurt our reputation and cause
customers to cancel orders.  

     We
rely heavily on our relationships with healthcare practitioners, agents and
distributors for marketing our products, and our failure to maintain these
relationships could adversely affect our business.   

  The sales of our products
depend significantly on the prescription or recommendation of such products by
podiatrists, orthopedists, orthopedic surgeons, dermatologists, cosmetic and
plastic surgeons, occupational and physical rehabilitation professionals,
prosthetists, orthotists and other healthcare professionals. Failure of our
products to retain the support of these surgeons and other specialists, or the
failure of our products to secure and retain similar support from leading
surgeons and other specialists, could have a material adverse effect on the
market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and
results of operation.  

18     

Our marketing success also
depends largely upon arrangements with agents and distributors. Our success
depends upon our agents  and distributors  sales and service expertise and
their relationships with the customers in the marketplace. Our failure to
maintain relationships with our agents and distributors for marketing our
products could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock
and our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

     The
nature of our business could subject us to potential product liability and
other claims.   

  The sale of orthotic and
prosthetic products and other biomechanical devices as well as skincare
products entails the potential risk of physical injury to patients and other
end users and an inherent risk of product liability, lawsuits and product
recalls. We currently maintain product liability insurance with coverage limits
of $10 million per occurrence and an annual aggregate maximum of
$10 million subject to a deductible of $25,000. However, we cannot assure
you that this coverage would be sufficient to cover the payment of any
potential claim. In addition, we cannot assure you that this or any other
insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, will be
obtainable at a reasonable cost. Our existing product liability insurance
coverage may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur,
and we will continue to be exposed to the risk that our claims may be excluded
and that our insurers may become insolvent. A product liability claim or series
of claims brought against us for uninsured liabilities or liabilities in excess
of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the market
price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of
operations. In addition, as a result of a product liability claim, our
reputation could be harmed and we may have to recall some of our products,
which could result in significant costs to us and have a material adverse
effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial
condition and results of operations.  

     Health
care regulations or health care reform initiatives could materially adversely
affect the market price of our common stock and our business, financial
condition and results of operations.   

  We are subject to
governmental regulation and supervision in the United States at the federal and
state levels and abroad. These regulations include FDA regulations and those
regarding Medicare, Medicaid and physician self-referrals. These regulations
are far-reaching, and we may be required to alter one or more of our practices
to be in compliance with these laws. For example, we may be required to obtain
regulatory approvals and otherwise comply with regulations regarding safety,
quality and efficacy standards. If we fail to obtain such approvals and otherwise
comply with applicable regulatory requirements that could result in government
authorities taking punitive actions against us, including, among other things,
imposing fines and penalties on us or preventing us from manufacturing or
selling our products. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and
even minor, inadvertent irregularities in submissions can potentially give rise
to claims that the statute has been violated. Any violations of these laws
could result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common
stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We
cannot assure you that these laws and regulations will not change or be
interpreted in the future in a manner which restricts or adversely affects our
business activities or relationships with providers of orthotic and
biomechanical products.  

     Changes
in government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels could
adversely affect our revenues and profitability.   

  Our products are sold by
us through our network of national, regional, independent and international
distributors, hospitals, doctors and other healthcare providers, many of whom
are reimbursed for the healthcare services provided to their patients by third-party
payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private
insurance plans and managed care programs. Many of these programs set maximum
reimbursement levels for certain of the products sold by us in the United
States. We may be unable to sell our products through our distribution channels
on a profitable basis if third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their
current levels of reimbursement, or if our costs of production increase faster
than increases in reimbursement levels. The percentage of our sales dependent
on   

19     

Medicare
or other insurance programs may increase as the portion of the United States
population over age 65 continues to grow, making us more vulnerable to
reimbursement level reductions by these organizations. Reduced government
reimbursement levels could result in reduced private payor reimbursement levels
because of indexing of Medicare fee schedules by certain third-party
payors. Furthermore, the healthcare industry is experiencing a trend towards
cost containment as government and private insurers seek to contain healthcare
costs by imposing lower reimbursement rates and negotiating reduced contract
rates with service providers.  

  Outside the United States,
reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have
government-managed health care systems that govern reimbursement for new
devices and procedures. The ability of hospitals supported by such systems to
purchase our products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints.
Canada and some European countries, for example, have tightened reimbursement
rates. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors
outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of our
products may decline, which could adversely affect our net sales and could have
a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  

     Our
business is subject to substantial government regulation relating to medical
products that could have a material adverse effect on our business.   

  Government regulation in
the United States and other countries is a significant factor affecting the
research, development, formulation, manufacture and marketing of our products.
In the United States, the FDA has broad authority to regulate the design,
manufacture, formulation, marketing and sale of medical devices, skincare, and
other medical products, and the FTC has broad authority over product
advertising. Overseas, these activities are subject to foreign governmental regulation,
which is in many respects similar to regulation in the United States but which
vary from country to country. United States and foreign regulation continues to
evolve, which could result in additional burdens on our operations. If we fail
to comply with applicable regulations we may be subject to, among other things,
fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls,
operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. Additionally, the cost of
maintaining personnel and systems necessary to comply with applicable
regulations is substantial and increasing.  

  Some of our products may
require or will require regulatory approval prior to being marketed. The
process of obtaining these approvals can be lengthy and expensive. We may not
be able to obtain or maintain necessary approvals for testing or marketing our
products. Moreover, regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant
limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed or
other restrictions or requirements that reduce the value to us of the products.
Regulatory authorities may also withdraw product approvals if we fail to comply
with regulatory standards or if any problems related to our products develop
following initial marketing. We are also subject to strict regulation with
respect to our manufacturing operations. This regulation includes testing,
control and documentation requirements, and compliance with current good
manufacturing practices, which is monitored through inspections by regulatory
authorities.  

  Our profitability depends,
in part, upon our and our distributors  ability to obtain and maintain all
necessary certificates, permits, approvals and clearances from United States
and foreign regulatory authorities and to operate in compliance with applicable
regulations. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to receive necessary
approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals, or failure to comply with
existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect
on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition
and results of operations.  

     Modifications
to our marketed devices may require FDA regulatory clearances or approvals and
may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until such
clearances or approvals are obtained.   

20     

When required, the products we market in the United
States have been subjected to Pre-market Notification requirements under Section 510(k) of
the Federal Food Drug   Cosmetics Act or were exempt from the 510(k) Pre-market
Notification process. We have modified some of our products and product
labeling since obtaining 510(k) clearance. If the FDA requires us to
submit a new 510(k) Pre-market Notification for modifications to our
existing products, we may be the subject of enforcement actions by the FDA and
be required to stop marketing the products while the FDA reviews the 510(k) Pre-market
Notification. If the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous
examination than we expect, our product introductions or modifications could be
delayed or canceled, which could cause our sales to decline or otherwise
adversely impact our growth. In addition, the FDA may determine that future
products will be subject to the more costly, lengthy and uncertain Pre-market
Approval, or PMA, process. Products that are approved through the PMA process
generally need FDA approval before they may be modified.  

     Our
products may be subject to product recalls even after receiving clearance or
approval, which would harm our reputation and our business.   

  The FDA and foreign
regulatory authorities have the authority to request and, in some cases,
require the recall of products in the event of material deficiencies, design
defects or manufacturing defects. A government-mandated or voluntary
recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing
errors, design defects, or any other incidents related to our medical devices,
including, but not limited to, adverse event recalls, cease and desist
communications and any other product liability issues related to our medical
devices. Any product recall would divert managerial and financial resources and
harm our reputation with customers and our business.  

     If we
fail to comply with the FDA s Quality System Regulation, our manufacturing
could be delayed, and our product sales and profitability could suffer.   

  Our manufacturing
processes are required to comply with the FDA s Quality System Regulation,
which covers the procedures concerning (and documentation of) the design, testing,
production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage
and shipping of our devices. We also are subject to state requirements and
licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. In addition, we must
engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our
manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by
governmental agencies, including the FDA, state authorities and comparable
agencies in other countries. Moreover, failure to pass a Quality System
Regulation inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory
requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing
delays. Failure to take adequate corrective action could result in, among other
things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures or recalls of
products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. We cannot assure
you that the FDA or other governmental authorities would agree with our
interpretation of applicable regulatory requirements or that we have in all
instances fully complied with all applicable requirements. Any failure to
comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales
and profitability.  

     Loss
of the services of key management personnel could adversely affect our
business.   

  Our operations are
dependent upon the skill, experience and performance of a relatively small
group of key management and technical personnel, including our Chairman and our
President and Chief Executive Officer. The unexpected loss of the services of
one or more of key management and technical personnel could have a material
adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business,
financial condition and results of operations.  

21     

Our
business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected
if we become involved in litigation regarding our patents or other intellectual
property rights.   

  The
orthopedic, orthotic, prosthetics and skincare product industries have
experienced extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual
property rights, and companies in this industry have used intellectual property
litigation in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage. Our products may
become subject to patent infringement claims or litigation or interference
proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or
USPTO, or the foreign equivalents thereto to determine the priority of
inventions, by competitors or other companies. The defense and prosecution of intellectual
property suits, USPTO interference proceedings or the foreign equivalents
thereto and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and
time consuming. An adverse determination in litigation or interference
proceedings to which we may become a party could:  

             subject
us to significant liabilities to third-parties; 

             require
disputed rights to be licensed from a third-party for royalties that may
be substantial; 

             require us to cease
manufacturing, using or selling such products or technology; or 

             result
in the invalidation or loss of our patent rights. 

  Any one of these outcomes
could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock
and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we
may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all.
Even if we are able to enter into licensing arrangements, costs associated with
these transactions may be substantial and could include the long-term payment
of royalties. Accordingly, adverse determinations in a judicial or
administrative proceeding or our failure to obtain necessary licenses could
prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, or from using certain
processes to make our products which would have a material adverse effect on
the market price of our common stock and our business, operating results and
financial condition. Moreover, even if we are successful in such litigation,
the expense of defending such claims could be material.  

  In addition, we may in the
future need to litigate to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or
know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the
proprietary rights of others. Such enforcement of our intellectual property
rights could involve counterclaims against us. Any future litigation or
interference proceedings may result in substantial expense to us and
significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel.  

  Intellectual property
litigation relating to our products could also cause our customers or potential
customers to defer or limit their purchases of our products, or cause
healthcare professionals, agents and distributors to cease or lessen their
support and marketing of our products.  

  In addition, in connection
with our acquisition of Silipos, we may be subject to the Potential Poly-Gel
Claims discussed under  Risk Factors We may be adversely affected by legal
actions or proceedings,  including intellectual property claims, brought by
Poly-Gel. For any of these potential claims, SSL has generally agreed to
indemnify us for losses up to $2.0 million, after which we would be liable
for any such claims. For claims arising out of conduct that occurs after the
closing of the Silipos transaction on September 30, 2004, we have agreed
to indemnify SSL against losses. We would expect to vigorously defend against
any claims brought by Poly-Gel. However, if such claims were brought, we may
not ultimately prevail.  

22  

We may not be able
to maintain the confidentiality, or assure the protection, of our proprietary
technology.   

  We hold a variety of patents, trademarks and
copyrights in several countries, including the United States, that we are
dependent on, including approximately 35 patents and patent applications in the
U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions and a number of trademarks for
technologies and brands related to our product offerings. The ownership of a
patent or an interest in a patent does not always provide significant
protection, and the patents and patent applications in which we have an
interest may be challenged as to their validity or enforceability. Others may
independently develop similar technologies or design around the patented
aspects of our technology. Challenges may result in potentially significant
harm to our business. We are also dependent upon a variety of methods and
technologies that we regard as proprietary trade secrets. In addition, we have
(i) a non-exclusive, paid up (except for certain administrative fees)
license with Applied Elastomerics, Incorporated (the  AEI License ) dated as of
November 30, 2001, as amended, to manufacture and sell certain products
using mineral oil based gels under certain patents, during the life of such
patents, and (ii) a license with Gerald Zook (the  Zook License ),
effective as of January 1, 1997, to manufacture and sell certain products
using mineral oil based gels under certain patents and know how, during the
life of such patents, in exchange for sales based royalty payments, that is
exclusive as to certain products but is non-exclusive as to others. We also
have exclusive licenses to three types of orthotic devices which are patented
in the United States and several foreign countries. We believe our trademarks
and trade names, including Langer , Sporthotics , PPT , Silipos , Explorer Gel
Liner , Siloliner , and Silopad , contribute significantly to brand recognition
for our products, and the inability to use one or more of these names could
have a material adverse affect on our business. For the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, revenues generated by the products
incorporating the technology licensed under the AEI License accounted for
approximately 40.2% and 42.6% of our revenues. For the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, revenues generated by products covered by the
Zook License, as we understand the Zook License, accounted for approximately
23.9% and 17.0% of our revenues. Dr. Gerald P. Zook, the licensor of the
Zook License, has commenced an arbitration proceeding alleging that a broader
range of products sold by us are covered by the Zook License and that more
license fees are payable by us under the Zook License. See Item 3,  Legal
Proceedings.   

  We
rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, patent, trademark, unfair
competition and other intellectual property laws as well as contractual
agreements to protect our rights to such intellectual property. Due to the
difficulty of monitoring unauthorized use of and access to intellectual
property, however, such measures may not provide adequate protection. There can
be no assurance that courts will always uphold our intellectual property
rights, or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to
protect our proprietary technology and trade secrets.  

  Further, although we seek to protect our trade
secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with
confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees and consultants, we
cannot assure you that:  

             these confidentiality
agreements will not be breached; 

             we will have adequate
remedies for any breach; 

             we will not be required to
disclose such information to the FDA or other governmental agency in  order for us to have the right to market a
product; or  

             trade secrets, know-how and
other unpatented proprietary technology will not otherwise become  known to or independently developed by our
competitors.  

  Any
finding of unenforceability, invalidity, non-infringement, or misappropriation
of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on the market
price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of
operations. In addition, if we bring or become subject to litigation to defend
against claimed infringement of our rights or of the rights of others or to
determine the scope and   

23     

validity of our intellectual property rights, such
litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources.
Unfavorable results in such litigation could also result in the loss or
compromise of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities,
require us to seek licenses from third parties, or prevent us from selling our
products, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our
common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

  In addition, our licenses, including the AEI License
and the Zook License, could be terminated under a variety of circumstances
including for material breach of the license agreements or in the event of the
bankruptcy or insolvency of the licensor. Any such termination could have a
material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  

     A
portion of our revenues and expenditures is subject to exchange rate fluctuations
that could adversely affect our reported results of operations.   

  While a majority of our business is denominated in
United States dollars, we maintain operations in foreign countries, primarily
the United Kingdom and Canada that require payments in the local currency and
payments received from customers for goods sold in these countries are
typically in the local currency. Consequently, fluctuations in the rate of
exchange between the United States dollar and certain other currencies may
affect our results of operations and period-to-period comparisons of our
operating results. For example, the value of the U.S. dollar has fallen over
the last year relative to the British pound and the Canadian dollar (which are
the principal foreign currencies material to our business) causing an increase
in our reported revenues when we convert the higher valued foreign currencies
into U.S. dollars. If the value of the U.S. dollar were to increase in relation
to those currencies in the future, there could be a negative effect on the
value of our sales in those markets when we convert amounts to dollars when we
prepare our financial statements. We do not engage in hedging or similar
transactions to reduce these risks.  

     We may be liable for contamination or other harm
caused by hazardous materials that we use.   

  Our research and development and manufacturing
processes involve the use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal,
state and local regulation governing the use, manufacture, handling, storage
and disposal of hazardous materials or waste. We cannot completely eliminate
the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials or
waste, and we may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury.
In addition, under some environmental laws and regulations, we could also be
held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past
or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites even if
such contamination was not caused by us. We may incur significant expenses in
the future relating to any failure to comply with environmental laws. Any such
future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  

    Our quarterly operating results are subject to
fluctuations.    

  Our
revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate
from quarter to quarter due to seasonal factors and for other reasons. Revenues
derived from our sales of orthotic devices has historically been significantly
higher in North America in the warmer months of the year, while sales of
orthotic devices in the United Kingdom has not historically experienced
seasonality. We believe that this seasonality in North America results from the
portion of our orthotics sales comprised of custom sandals which tend to be
higher in the spring and summer months. Our experience has also been that
physical activities in general tend to increase in warmer weather and that many
patients of our customers in the healthcare profession tend to defer healthcare
purchases until the spring months. Other factors which can result in quarterly
variations include the timing and amount of new business generated by us, the
timing of new product introductions, our revenue mix, acquisitions, the timing
of additional selling and general and administrative expenses to support the
anticipated growth and development of new business units and the competitive
and fluctuating economic conditions in the orthopedic industry.  

24     

Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating
results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as
indications of likely future performance or annual operating results.
Reductions in revenues or net income between quarters could result in a
decrease in the market price of our common stock.  

     We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net
operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards.   

  NOLs
may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future
years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income,
subject to certain adjustments. Based on current federal corporate income tax
rates, our NOL could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant
future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future
years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not
have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before
they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL carryforwards permanently.
Additionally, future utilization of net operating losses will be limited under
existing tax law due to the change in control of Langer in 2001 and may be
further limited as a result of pending or future offerings of our common stock.  

  The amount of NOL carryforwards that we have claimed
to date of approximately $6,400,000 has not been audited or otherwise validated
by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the  IRS ). The IRS could challenge our
calculation of the amount of our NOL or any deductions or losses included in
such calculation, and provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our
ability to carry forward our NOL to offset taxable income in future years. If
the IRS were successful with respect to any challenge in respect of the amount
of our NOL, the potential tax benefit of the NOL carryforwards to us could be
substantially reduced.  

     The
recent changes in accounting standards regarding stock option plans could limit
the desirability of granting stock options, which could harm our ability to
attract and retain employees, and could also negatively impact our results of
operations.   

  A recent change in accounting standards is requiring
all public companies to treat the fair value of stock options granted to
employees as an expense effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year
beginning after June 15, 2005. When this change becomes mandatory, we and
other companies will be required to record a compensation expense equal to the
fair value of each stock option granted. Currently, we are generally not
required to record compensation expense in connection with stock option grants.
When we are required to expense the fair value of stock option grants, it may
reduce the attractiveness to us of granting stock options because of the
additional expense associated with these grants, which would negatively impact
our reported results of operations. For example, had we been required to
expense stock option grants by applying the measurement provisions of Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  our recorded net loss for the year ended December 31, 2005
of approximately $4,557,000 would have been increased by approximately
$2,837,000 (of which approximately $766,000 would have represented periodic
expense relating to employee stock options granted and $2,071,000 would have represented
expenses relating to the acceleration of the vesting of certain options (See
Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,  Stock Options ), to a net
loss of approximately $7,394,000, and our recorded net income for the year
ended December 31, 2004 of approximately $375,000 would have been reduced
by approximately $521,000, to a net loss of approximately $146,000, and our
recorded net loss for the year ended December 31, 2003 of approximately
$5,000 would have been increased by approximately $147,000, to a net loss of
approximately $152,000, net of tax. Nevertheless, stock options are an
important employee recruitment and retention tool, and we may not be able to
attract and retain key personnel if we reduce the scope of our employee stock
option program. Accordingly, when we are required to expense stock option
grants, our future results of operations will be negatively impacted, as could
our willingness to use stock options as an employee recruitment and retention
tool.  

25     

Risks Related to Our Common Stock   

     One
stockholder has the ability to significantly influence the election of our
directors and the outcome of corporate action requiring stockholder approval.   

  As of March 27, 2006, Warren B. Kanders, our
Chairman of the Board of Directors, in his capacity as sole manager and voting
member of Langer Partners, LLC ( Langer Partners ) and the sole stockholder of
Kanders   Company, Inc., may be deemed to be the beneficial owner
of 2,913,523 shares, or approximately 26.5% of our outstanding common stock.  

  As of March 27, 2006, current executive officers
and directors, including Mr. Kanders, beneficially own an aggregate of 4,026,002
shares, or approximately 30.3% of our outstanding common stock, which excludes
1,077,580 shares beneficially owned by Andrew H. Meyers, who ceased to be an
officer on December 31, 2005 and a director on March 24, 2006.  

  Consequently, Mr. Kanders, acting alone or
together with our other officers and directors, has the ability to
significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including
the election of our directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring
stockholder approval, such as a change in control.  

  Langer Partners is party
to an agreement with Oracle Investment Management, Inc. ( Oracle ), the
beneficial owner of some of our outstanding 4% convertible subordinated notes
due August 31, 2006. Pursuant to the agreement, Langer Partners agreed not
to, without the prior written consent of Oracle, sell, assign, pledge or
otherwise transfer any shares of our common stock owned by Langer Partners
until such time as Oracle sells or otherwise transfers one-third or more of the
4% convertible subordinated notes held by it, or shares of common stock
received upon conversion of the notes. Oracle has not converted or transferred
any of the 4% convertible subordinated notes to date. Oracle is considered to
beneficially own 6.3% of our outstanding common stock. Langer Partners further
agreed with Oracle to vote all shares of Common Stock owned by Langer Partners
in favor of so many nominees of Oracle to our Board of Directors as is equal,
on a percentage basis, to the aggregate percentage of our common stock owned by
Oracle on a fully diluted basis. Under this arrangement, we believe Oracle
would be currently entitled to designate one Board nominee pursuant to this
right. However, Oracle has not to date nominated a director.  

     The
price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be volatile,
which could affect a stockholder s return on investment.   

  There has been significant
volatility in the stock market and in particular in the market price and
trading volume of securities of orthopedic and other health care companies,
which has often been unrelated to the performance of the companies. The market
price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations, and we
expect it to continue to be subject to such fluctuations for the foreseeable
future. We believe the reasons for these fluctuations include, in addition to
general market volatility, the relatively thin level of trading in our stock,
and the relatively low public float. Therefore, variations in financial
results, announcements of material events, technological innovations or new
products by us or our competitors, our quarterly operating results, changes in
general conditions in the economy or the health care industry, other
developments affecting us or our competitors or general price and volume
fluctuations in the market are among the many factors that could cause the
market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.  

     Shares
of our common stock have been thinly traded in the past.   

  Although a trading market
for our common stock exists, the trading volume has not been significant and
there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock
will develop or, if developed, be sustained in the future. As a result of the
thin trading market or  float  for our stock, the   

26     

market
price for our common stock may fluctuate significantly more than the stock
market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than
the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the
trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In the absence of an
active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate his
investment in our common stock. Trading of a relatively small volume of our
common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than
would be the case if our public float were larger. We cannot predict the prices
at which our common stock will trade in the future. Our common stock is
currently traded on The Nasdaq National Market.  

     We
may issue a substantial amount of our common stock in the future which could
cause dilution to investors and otherwise adversely affect our stock price.   

  A key element of our
growth strategy is to make acquisitions. As part of our acquisition strategy,
we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such
acquisitions. These issuances could be significant. To the extent that we make
acquisitions and issue our shares of common stock as consideration stockholder s
interest may be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of
outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the
future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these
acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their common stock than other
investors, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the
potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated
acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower
price than might otherwise be obtained. We may issue common stock in the future
for other purposes as well, including in connection with financings, for
compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other
purposes.  

     We
have a significant amount of convertible indebtedness outstanding and may issue
a substantial amount of our common stock in connection with these and other
outstanding securities and in connection with future acquisitions and our
growth plans; any such issuances of additional shares could adversely affect
our stock price.   

  On October 31, 2001, we sold $14,589,000 of our
4% convertible subordinated notes due August 31, 2006 (the  Convertible
Notes ) in a private placement. In June 2005, $150,000 of the Convertible
Notes were converted into 25,000 shares of our common stock leaving a balance
of $14,439,000 outstanding. The remaining Convertible Notes are convertible at
any time into approximately 2,406,500 shares of our common stock, at a
conversion price of $6.00 per share, subject to adjustment in certain
circumstances. The conversion of our Convertible Notes could result in dilution
in the value of the shares of our outstanding stock and the voting power
represented thereby. The effect of the conversion of all of our outstanding Convertible
Notes due August 31, 2006 would be to increase outstanding shares and
dilute current shareholders by approximately 19.5% at December 31, 2005.
In addition, the conversion price of our Convertible Notes may be lowered under
the conversion price adjustment provisions of the notes in certain
circumstances, including if we issue common stock at a net price per share less
than the conversion price then in effect or if we issue rights, warrants or
options entitling the recipients to subscribe for or purchase shares of our
common stock at a price per share less than the conversion price (after taking
into account any consideration we received for such rights, warrants or
options). A reduction in the conversion price may result in the issuance of an
additional number of shares upon the conversion of our Convertible Notes. We
also have a significant number of stock options and warrants outstanding.  

  We anticipate issuing
additional shares of our common stock and may also issue additional securities
convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for common stock to finance
acquisitions or for other reasons in the future. The number of outstanding
shares of our common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future is,
therefore, likely to increase substantially. Persons receiving shares of our
common stock in connection with these acquisitions or financings may be more
likely to sell large quantities of their   

27     

common
stock, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition,
the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated
acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower
price than would otherwise be obtained. If our security holders sell
substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market following this
offering, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales might
make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities
in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate and may require us
to issue greater amounts of our common stock to finance acquisitions.
Additional shares sold to finance acquisitions and conversions, exercises and
exchanges of other securities for common stock may also dilute our earnings per
share.  

     Our
certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions
that could discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt.   

  We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203
of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits
publicly-held Delaware corporations to which it applies from engaging in a  business
combination  (generally including mergers, consolidations and sales of 10% or
more of the corporation s assets) with an  interested stockholder  (generally
defined as a person owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the
corporation, subject to certain exceptions) for a period of three years after
the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested
stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed
manner. This provision could discourage others from bidding for our shares and
could, as a result, reduce the likelihood of an increase in our stock price
that would otherwise occur if a bidder sought to buy our stock.  

  It could also discourage, delay or prevent another
company from merging with us or acquiring us, even if our stockholders were to
consider such a merger or acquisition to be favorable.  

  Additionally, our Board of
Directors has the authority to issue up to 250,000 shares of preferred stock,
and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including
voting and conversion rights, of those shares without any further action or
vote by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be
subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of
preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Such provisions could
adversely affect the holders of common stock in a variety of ways, including by
potentially discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of us and by
diluting our earnings per share.  

     We do
not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future.   

  We currently do not intend
to pay any dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any
earnings for working capital, repayment of indebtedness, capital expenditures
and general corporate purposes.  

     ITEM 1B.           UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS 

  Not applicable  

28     

ITEM 2.                    PROPERTIES 

  We are
headquartered in Deer Park, New York and operate manufacturing facilities in
Deer Park, New York, Niagara Falls, New York, Anaheim, California, Montreal,
Canada and Stoke-on-Trent, England. We also have sales offices in New York City
and Markham, Ontario (Canada). The following table sets forth information about
our real properties where our manufacturing, warehouse, sales and office space
are located:   

(1)               In January 2005, we exercised our option to extend
the lease to July 31, 2009. The rent under the lease increases 4% annually
commencing with each August payment.  

  (2)               Lease commenced January 1, 2005. The annual rent
increases to $71,040 in 2007. The table above reflects the 2006 annual rent
payments due for this lease.  

  (3)               Assumes a conversion rate of 1.82 U.S. Dollars to 1.00
British pound sterling.  

  (4)               Reflects the annual rent due in 2006. The rent
increases each year throughout the lease.  

  (5)               On December 19, 2005, we entered into a lease (as
tenant) with 41 Madison, L.P. (the  Landlord ) of certain space, for use as
sales, marketing and executive offices. The lease will run for 10 years, 8
months, commencing upon the completion of the build-out of the space.  

  (6)               Assumes a conversion rate of .83 U.S. dollars to 1.00
Canadian dollar.  

  (7)               Estimated date based upon build-out schedule.  

  We believe that our
manufacturing, warehouse and office facilities are suitable and adequate and
afford sufficient capacity for our current and reasonably foreseeable future
needs. We believe we have adequate insurance coverage for our properties and
their contents.  

     ITEM 3.                    LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS 

  On April 21, 2005, Thermo-Ply, Inc., a
Florida corporation, filed an action in the United States District Court for
the Middle District of Florida (Tampa Division) against Silipos and four other
defendants. The action asserts a claim for alleged infringement of U.S. Patent
No. 6,231,617. Although not specifically identified by the claim, the
Company believes that the claim, insofar as it relates to the Company, may be
directed towards the Explorer Gel Liners manufactured, distributed and sold by
Silipos. The Company is currently investigating the validity of this claim.
Should the plaintiff be successful in   

29     

pressing this claim,
Silipos could be enjoined from making, using or selling the accused products
and could also be assessed damages for the alleged infringement, which damages
could be increased up to three times in the event the infringement is found to
be willful, together with attorney fees and certain costs. The parties are
discussing a settlement of the action although no assurance can be given that
such discussions will lead to a settlement favorable to the Company. Pursuant
to the Silipos stock purchase agreement, SSL has agreed to fund any of the
Company s obligations resulting from the settlement over $150,000, which the
Company had accrued or paid as of December 31, 2005.  

  In addition, in connection with the Company s
acquisition of Silipos, the Company could become subject to certain claims or
actions brought by Poly-Gel, although no such claims have been brought to date.
These claims may arise, for example, out of the supply agreement between
Silipos and Poly-Gel dated August 20, 1999, the manufacture, marketing or
sale of products made from gel not purchased from Poly-Gel, alleged
misappropriation of trade secrets or other confidential information (including
gel formulations) of Poly-Gel, as well as any other alleged violations of the
supply agreement (the  Potential Poly-Gel Claims ). For any of these potential
claims, SSL has agreed to indemnify the Company for losses up to $2.0 million,
after which the Company would be liable for any such claims. Furthermore, the
Company has assumed responsibility for the first $150,000 of such liability in
connection with the Company s acquisition of Silipos, and SSL s maximum
liability for total indemnification related to the Company s acquisition of
Silipos is between $5,000,000 and $7,000,000. Thus, if the total amount of all
claims arising from the acquisition exceed this maximum, whether or not related
to Poly-Gel, the Company would be liable for amounts in excess of the maximum.
For claims arising out of conduct that occurs after the closing of the Silipos
transaction on September 30, 2004, the Company has agreed to indemnify SSL
against losses. The Company would expect to vigorously defend against any
claims brought by Poly-Gel or any other third party.  

  On or about February 13, 2006, Dr. Gerald P.
Zook filed a demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association,
naming the Company and Silipos as 2 of the 16 respondents. (Four of the other
respondents are the former owners of Silipos and its affiliates, and the other
10 respondents are unknown entities.) 
The demand for arbitration alleges that the Company and Silipos are in
default of obligations to pay royalties in accordance with the terms of a
license agreement between Dr. Zook and Silipos dated as of January 1,
1997, with respect to seven patents owned by Dr. Zook and licensed to
Silipos. Silipos has paid royalties to Dr. Zook, but Dr. Zook claims
that greater royalties are owed. The demand for arbitration seeks an award of
$400,000 and reserves the right to seek a higher award after completion of
discovery. The Company and Silipos intend to vigorously defend the claim.  

  On or about February 23, 2006, Silipos commenced
an action in New York State Supreme Court, New York County, against
Mr. Peter D. Bickel, who was the executive vice president of
Silipos, Inc., until January 11, 2006. In the action, Silipos seeks,
among other things, a declaratory judgment that Mr. Bickel is not entitled
to severance pay or other benefits, on account of his breach of various
provisions of his employment agreement with Silipos and his non-disclosure
agreement with Silipos, and that his termination by Silipos was for  cause  as
defined in the employment agreement. Silipos is also seeking an aggregate of
$12 million in compensatory and punitive damages for breaches of the employment
agreement, breach of the non-disclosure agreement, breach of fiduciary duties,
misappropriation of trade secrets, and tortious interference with business
relationships. No assurance can be given that Silipos will be successful in
recovering all or any portion of this amount. On or about March 22, 2006,
Mr. Bickel removed the lawsuit to the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York and filed an answer denying the material
allegations of the complaint and counterclaims seeking a declaratory judgment
that his non-disclosure agreement is unenforceable and that he is entitled to
$500,000, representing two years  base salary, in severance compensation, on
the ground that Silipos did not have  cause  to terminate his employment.
Silipos intends to vigorously defend these counterclaims.  

30     

Additionally, in the
normal course of business, we may be subject to claims and litigation in the
areas of general liability, including claims of employees, and claims,
litigation or other liabilities as a result of acquisitions we have completed.
The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict and we cannot provide
you with any assurance that an action or proceeding will not be commenced
against us, or that we will prevail in any such action or proceeding. An
unfavorable outcome of the arbitration proceeding commenced by Dr. Gerald
P. Zook against us and Silipos, may adversely affect our rights to manufacture
and/or sell certain products or raise the royalty costs of those certain
products.   

  An unfavorable resolution
of any legal action or proceeding could materially adversely affect the market
price of our common stock and our business, results of operations, liquidity or
financial condition.  

   ITEM 4.                    SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

  There were no matters
submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal
year covered by this Annual Report.  

31  

PART II   

     ITEM 5.                    MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

     Price Range of Common Stock   

  Our common stock, par value $0.02 per share, has been
traded on The Nasdaq National Market since August 23, 2005 under the
symbol  GAIT . For more then two years prior thereto, our common stock was
traded on the Nasdaq Small Cap Market. The following table sets forth the high
and low bid prices for the common stock as reported on The Nasdaq Small Cap
Market for the specified periods prior to August 23, 2005 and on the
Nasdaq National Market on and after August 23, 2005.  

  The
last reported sale price on March 15, 2006, was $4.00. On such date, there
were approximately 229 holders of record of our common stock. This figure
excludes all owners whose stock is held beneficially or in  street  name.  

Dividend Policy   

  We have not declared any
cash dividends on our common stock in the past, and we do not presently
anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We
currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings for use in our
business. The payment of dividends in the future will be at the discretion of
our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, our results of
operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, contractual
restrictions on payment of dividends, if any, legal and regulatory restrictions
on payment of dividends, and other factors our Board of Directors deems
relevant.  

     Recent
Sales of Unregistered Securities   

  On October 1, 2005, we issued 901 shares of our
common stock as consideration for certain consulting services. The shares of
common stock were issued pursuant to an exemption provided by Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933.  

  On November 12, 2004, the Board of Directors
approved a grant of 100,000 shares of restricted stock to Kanders  
Company subject to certain performance conditions, which were satisfied in June
2005, provided Mr. Kanders has not resigned from the Board of Directors,
all of which were originally scheduled to vest on November 12, 2007 and
which would accelerate upon the death of Mr. Kanders, or the change of control
of the Company. On December 20, 2005, the Board of Directors accelerated
the vesting of the stock award subject to lock-up, confidentiality and
non-competition agreements.  

  On December 20, 2005,
the Company accelerated the vesting of a certain restricted stock award to W. Gray
Hudkins originally granted in November 2004, subject to certain lock-up,
confidentiality and non-  

32     

competition
agreements. Mr. Hudkins surrendered 17,200 shares of such restricted stock
to the Company to satisfy his obligation to reimburse the Company for withholding
taxes payable by the Company on behalf of Mr. Hudkins.  

     ITEM
6.                    SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA 

  The
selected consolidated financial data set forth below should be read in
conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes
thereto in Item 8 and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,  in Item 7. We derived the
consolidated statements of operations data for the ten months ended December 31,
2001 and the year ended December 31, 2002, and the consolidated balance
sheet data as of December 31, 2001, December 31, 2002 and December 31,
2003 from our audited financial statements not included in this Annual Report.
We derived the consolidated statements of operations data for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2004 and 2005 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31,
2004 and 2005 from our audited financial statements. The historical results are
not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected in the
future.   

As set forth in Item 1,
Business,  Acquisition History , we have completed three acquisitions since May 6,
2002. See Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations,  Overview  and  Results of Operations,  for
information regarding the effect of acquisitions on our results of operations.  

33     

ITEM 7.                    MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

   The
discussion in this Item 7 should be read in conjunction with our consolidated
financial statements and the related notes to those statements included
elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition to historical consolidated
financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking
statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual
results and timing of specific events may differ materially from those
anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many
factors, including, but not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A, Risk
Factors, and elsewhere in this Annual Report.   

     Overview   

  We design, manufacture and
distribute a range of medical products targeting the orthopedic, orthotic and
prosthetic markets. We also offer a diverse line of skincare products for the
medical, therapeutic and retail markets. We sell our products primarily in the
United States and Canada, as well as in more than 30 other countries, to
national, regional, international and independent medical distributors and
directly to healthcare professionals.  

  Our broad range of over
500 orthopedic products, including custom foot and ankle orthotic devices,
pre-fabricated foot products, rehabilitation products, and gel-based orthopedic
and prosthetics products, are designed to correct, protect, heal and provide
comfort for the patient. Our line of over 50 skincare products, which include
scar management products and gel-based therapeutic gloves and socks, is
designed to improve skin appearance and transmit moisture agents, vitamins and
nutrients to the skin.  

  Since February 2001,
we have consummated the following three acquisitions:  

               Silipos.   On September 30, 2004, we
acquired Silipos, Inc., our largest acquisition to date, from SSL. Silipos
is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of gel-based products focusing
on the orthopedic, orthotic, prosthetic, and skincare markets. We acquired  Silipos because of its distribution channels and
proprietary products, and to enable us to expand into additional product lines
that are part of our market focus. The aggregate consideration paid by us in
connection with this acquisition was approximately $17.3 million,
including transaction costs of approximately $2.0 million, paid in cash
and notes.  

               Bi-Op.   On January 13, 2003, we
acquired Bi-Op Laboratories, Inc., which is engaged in the design,
manufacture and sale of footwear and foot orthotic devices as well as orthotic
and prosthetic services. We acquired Bi-Op to gain access to additional markets
and complementary product lines. The aggregate consideration, including
transaction costs, was approximately $2.2 million, of which approximately
$1.8 million was paid in cash, and the remaining portion was paid through
the issuance of 107,611 shares of our common stock. 

               Benefoot.   On May 6, 2002, we acquired
the net assets of Benefoot, Inc., and Benefoot Professional Products, Inc.
(together,  Benefoot ). Benefoot designs, manufactures and distributes custom
orthotics,  custom Birkenstock  sandals,
therapeutic shoes, and prefabricated orthotic devices to healthcare
professionals. We acquired Benefoot to gain additional scale in our core custom
orthotics business as well as to gain access to complementary product lines.
The aggregate consideration, including transaction costs, was approximately
$7.9 million, of which approximately $5.6 million was paid in cash,
$1.8 million was paid through the issuance of 4% promissory notes, and
approximately $0.5 million was paid through the issuance of 61,805 shares
of common stock. In connection with this acquisition, we also assumed certain
liabilities of Benefoot, including approximately $0.3 million of long-term
indebtedness which was paid at closing.  

  We sell our products
directly to health care professionals and also to wholesale distributors.
Custom orthotic products are primarily sold directly to health care
professionals. Other products sold in our orthopedic business are sold both
directly to health care professionals and to distributors. Products sold in   

34     

our
skincare business are sold primarily to wholesale distributors. Revenue from
product sales is recognized at the time of shipment. Our most significant
expense is cost of sales. Cost of sales consists of materials, direct labor and
overhead, and related shipping costs. General and administrative expenses
consist of executive, accounting and administrative salaries and related expenses,
insurance, pension expenses, bank service charges, stockholder relations and
amortization of identifiable intangible assets with definite lives. Selling
expenses consist of advertising, promotions, commissions, conventions, postage,
travel and entertainment, sales and marketing salaries and related expenses.  

  For the year ended December 31,
2005, we derived approximately 89% of our revenue from North America and
approximately 11% of our revenue from outside North America. For each of the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, we derived approximately 90% of
our revenue from North America, and approximately 10% of our revenue from
outside North America. Of our revenue derived from North America for the year
ended December 31, 2005, approximately 93% was generated in the United
States and approximately 7% was generated from Canada. Of our revenue derived
from North America for each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
approximately 92% and 93%, respectively, was generated in the United States and
approximately 8% and 7%, respectively, was generated from Canada. On a pro
forma basis, giving effect to our acquisition of Silipos as if it had occurred
on the first day of the period, approximately 84% of our revenue for each of
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 would have been derived from
North America, and approximately 16% of our revenue for each of these years,
would have been derived from outside North America. On a pro forma basis,
giving effect to our acquisition of Silipos as if had occurred on the first day
of the period, for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
approximately 79% and 80%, respectively, of our revenue would have been derived
in the United States, and approximately 5% and 4%, respectively, would have
been derived from Canada.  

  For the year ended December 31,
2005, we had a net loss of approximately $4,557,000, as compared to net income
for the year ended December 31, 2004 of approximately $375,000. The
principal reasons for the net loss were the non-cash stock award and stock
option compensation expense recorded in 2005 of approximately $3,045,000
(including approximately $1,313,000 relating to the acceleration of vesting of
certain stock options and stock awards in the fourth quarter of 2005), as
compared to approximately $23,000 in 2004, the provision for impairment of
$2,102,000 provided with respect to certain identifiable intangible assets
recorded in 2005, and the increase in interest expense to approximately
$2,692,000 in 2005, as compared to approximately $1,219,000 in 2004. The net
loss for 2005 was partially offset by the non-cash gain on the expiration of
the Put Option (as defined below) of $1,750,000 recorded in 2005, as compared
to the non-cash gain on the change in the fair value of the Put Option of
$605,000 recorded in 2004.  

  From January 1, 2002
to September 30, 2004, we had two reportable segments, custom orthotics
and distributed products. As a result of the Silipos acquisition, beginning
with the fourth quarter of 2004, we are reporting custom orthotics and
distributed products as a single segment called orthopedics, and are reporting
a new second segment called skincare. The orthopedics segment includes the
orthopedic products of Silipos.  

  On a pro forma basis
giving effect to our acquisition of Silipos as of the beginning of the relevant
years, approximately 86% and 87% of our revenue, respectively, for the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 would have been derived from our
orthopedics segment, and approximately 14% and 13% of our revenue,
respectively, for these periods would have been derived from our new skincare
segment.  

     Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates   

  Our accounting policies
are more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the   

35     

date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Future events and their effects cannot be
determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates
requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  

    Accounting Estimates.          We believe the most significant
accounting estimates inherent in the preparation of our consolidated financial
statements include estimates associated with our determination of liabilities
related to warranty activity and estimates associated with our reserves with
respect to collectibility of accounts receivable, allowances for sales returns,
inventory valuations, valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and
impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Various assumptions
and other factors underlie the determination of these significant estimates.
The process of determining significant estimates is fact specific and takes
into account factors such as historical experience, current and expected
economic conditions, and product mix. We constantly re-evaluate these
significant factors and make adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.
Historically, actual results have not significantly deviated from those
determined using the estimates described above. 

    Warranty Reserve.          Warranty reserves represent our
estimate of future costs associated with our warranty of fabricated products
and are based upon historical experience. The warranty reserve at December 31,
2002 was approximately $70,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003,
we added approximately $405,000 to the reserve and charged the same amount
against the reserve for costs incurred to complete warranty repairs. The
warranty reserve at December 31, 2003 was $70,000. During the year ended December 31,
2004, we added approximately $332,000 to the reserve and charged approximately
$332,000 against the reserve for costs incurred to complete warranty repairs.
The warranty reserve at December 31, 2004 was $70,000. During the year
ended December 31, 2005, we added approximately $290,000 to the reserve
and charged $290,000. The warranty reserve at December 31, 2005 was
$70,000. If future costs incurred were to differ from our estimates, we may
need to increase or decrease our reserve. 

    Revenue Recognition.          Revenue from the sale of our
products is recognized upon shipment. We generally do not have any
post-shipment obligations to customers other than for product warranties. We
generally warrant our products against defects in materials and workmanship for
a period of 6 months. We record provision for estimated future costs
associated with our warranties of fabricated products/custom orthotics when we
ship such products, based on historical experience. We also offer extended
warranty contracts which we record as deferred revenue and recognize over the
lives of the contracts (24 months) on a straight-line basis. See    Warranty Reserve,    above. Revenue from
shipping and handling fees is included in net sales in the consolidated
statements of operations. Costs incurred for shipping and handling is included
in the cost of sales in the consolidated statements of operations. 

    Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.          Our allowance for doubtful accounts
was 7.6% of accounts receivable at December 31, 2005 as compared to 5.1%
of accounts receivable at December 31, 2004. Management believes that the
overall allowance, as a percentage of accounts receivable at December 31,
2005 is appropriate based upon the consolidated collection and write-off
history as well as the average age of the consolidated accounts receivable. The
allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2002 was approximately
$125,000. During the year ended December 31, 2003, we added approximately
$118,000 to the allowance based upon increased net sales and our review of the
accounts receivable aging. We wrote off, net of recoveries, approximately
$18,000 against the allowance. The allowance for doubtful accounts at
December 31, 2003 was approximately $225,000. During the year ended
December 31, 2004, we added approximately $172,000 to the allowance and
wrote off, net of recoveries, approximately $17,000 against the allowance. As
of December 31, 2004, the allowance for doubtful accounts was
approximately $380,000. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we added
approximately $151,000 to the allowance and wrote off approximately $101,000.
At December 31, 2005, the allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately
$430,000. If future payments by our customers were different from our
estimates, we may need to increase or decrease our allowance for doubtful
accounts. 

36  

Other Allowances.          The sales returns and allowances at
December 31, 2002 were $28,000. In 2003, we added $40,000 to the
allowance. The sales returns and allowances at each of December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 were $68,000. If actual sales returns and allowances were to
differ from our estimates, we may need to increase or decrease our sales return
and allowance. 

    Inventory Reserve.          At December 31, 2002, the
inventory reserve for excess or obsolete inventory was approximately $220,000. In
2003, we provided approximately $129,000 as an additional reserve and charged
approximately $39,000 to the reserve. The inventory reserve for excess or
obsolete inventory at December 31, 2003 was approximately $310,000. During
the year ended December 31, 2004, we added approximately $214,000 of
additional reserves and wrote off approximately $155,000 in excess or obsolete
inventory which was disposed of during the year. During 2004, we reviewed our
inventory levels and aging relative to current and expected usage and determined
the requirement for additions to the reserve. The inventory reserve for
obsolete inventory at December 31, 2004 was approximately $369,000. During
the year ended December 31, 2005, we added $453,000 of additional reserves
and wrote off approximately $258,000 in excess or obsolete inventory which was
disposed of during the year. The reserve for obsolete inventory was
approximately $564,000 at December 31, 2005. If the inventory quality or
usage relative to quantities held were to deteriorate or improve in the future,
we may need to increase or decrease our reserve for excess or obsolete
inventory. Inventory write-downs represent the estimated loss of value of
certain slow-moving inventory or inventory that has been damaged or spoiled.
Inventory usage is analyzed using turnover analysis, and an allowance for
obsolescence is provided when inventory quantity exceeds its normal cycle. The
percentage of allowance is based upon actual usage, historical data and
experience. Most of these reserves are associated with raw materials used in
the fabrication process and either represent items no longer utilized in the
process or significant excess inventory. Inventory for which a reserve has been
provided was approximately $992,000 and approximately $1,175,000, on an
original cost basis, at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005,
respectively. Certain of the raw material inventory for which a reserve was
provided has subsequently been used in fabrication, with the related reserve
being reversed. However, we re-evaluate the reserve as of the end of each
reporting period based upon the age of the existing inventory and the usage
analysis.. 

    Valuation Allowance Deferred
Tax Assets.          The
valuation allowance relating to deferred tax assets was approximately
$2,408,000 at December 31, 2002, which represented a full allowance
against all net deferred tax assets except approximately $6,000 related to an
alternative minimum tax carryforward. During the year ended December 31,
2003, the valuation allowance increased by approximately $17,000 to
approximately $2,425,000 at December 31, 2003. During 2004, the valuation
allowance was increased by approximately $143,000 to approximately $2,568,000. During
2005, the valuation allowance was increased by approximately $2,112,000 to
approximately $4,680,000. We believe this valuation allowance is required
because it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will not be
realized. 

    Goodwill and Identifiable
Intangible Assets.          Goodwill
represents the excess of purchase price over fair value of identifiable net
assets of acquired businesses. Identifiable intangible assets primarily
represent allocations of purchase price to identifiable intangible assets of
acquired businesses. Because of our strategy of growth through acquisitions,
goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets comprise a substantial
portion (36.2% as of December 31, 2005 and 47.4% as of December 31,
2004) of our total assets. 

  We
had no goodwill or other intangible assets prior to 2002. In June 2001,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 142  Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets.   We adopted SFAS No. 142
effective January 1, 2002. As a result of the adoption of this standard,
amortization of goodwill and certain intangible assets with indefinite lives
has been discontinued. Instead, we review these assets for impairment on an
annual basis.  

  During
2003, 2004 and 2005, impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite-lived identifiable
intangible assets were performed in accordance with SFAS No. 142 and an
evaluation of identifiable intangible assets   

37     

with definite lives pursuant to SFAS No. 144. As the
result of the impairment test completed as of October 1, 2005 in
accordance with SFAS No. 142, we recognized a loss on impairment of
identifiable intangibles with indefinite lives of $1,600,000 and recorded a
loss on impairment of $502,000 with respect to identifiable intangible assets
with definitive lives in accordance with SFAS No. 144.  

  Goodwill
and identifiable intangible assets, net, at December 31, 2002 were
approximately $3,186,000 and approximately $3,313,000, respectively. During the
year ended December 31, 2003, goodwill increased by approximately
$1,350,000, which represented goodwill of approximately $820,000 created by the
Bi-Op acquisition and approximately $530,000 resulting from performance-based
contingent consideration pursuant to the Benefoot acquisition. During 2003, we
added $900,000 of identifiable intangible assets with definite lives, all of
which related to the Bi-Op acquisition and recorded amortization expense of
approximately $253,000. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, net, at December 31,
2003 were approximately $4,536,000 and approximately $3,960,000, respectively.  

  During
2004, goodwill increased by approximately $8,785,000, which represented the
goodwill resulting from the Silipos acquisition of approximately $8,621,000 and
the final payment of deferred performance based contingent consideration with
respect to the Benefoot acquisition of approximately $164,000. Additionally,
during 2004, we added $5,732,000 of identifiable intangible assets as a result
of the Silipos acquisition and recorded amortization expense of approximately
$349,000. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, net at December 31,
2004, were approximately $13,321,000 and approximately $9,343,000,
respectively.  

  During the year ended December 31, 2005, goodwill
increased by approximately $798,000. The increase was due to the payment of
$900,000 as the full settlement of our obligation under the Silipos stock
purchase agreement to pay SSL Holdings, Inc., $1 million if we did not
acquire Poly-Gel by March 31, 2006, and which was accounted for under SFAS
No. 141,  Business Combinations.  The payment was made on July 15,
2005. Additionally, we recorded professional fees of approximately $67,000 with
respect to the acquisition, and a reduction to certain deferred assets and
property and equipment totalling approximately $63,000. Goodwill decreased due
to a $232,000 reduction in the purchase price paid by us to SSL because Silipos
did not satisfy certain minimum working capital requirements as of the closing
date of the acquisition pursuant to the Silipos purchase agreement. The
reduction to the purchase price was satisfied by decreasing the $7,500,000
principal amount of 5.5% secured promissory note due March 31, 2006 issued
to SSL (the  $7.5 Million Note ), and which is reflected herein. Goodwill and
identifiable intangible assets, net, at December 31, 2005 were
approximately $14,119,000 and approximately $6,604,000, respectively.  

38     

Results of Operations   

  The
following tables present (i) selected consolidated statements of
operations data, and (ii) selected consolidated statements of operations
data as a percentage of net sales:  

39     

Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004    

  Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2005 was
approximately $(4,557,000), or $(.63) per share on a fully diluted basis, as
compared to net income of approximately $375,000, or $.08 per share on a fully
diluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2004. The principal reasons
for the net loss were the impairment with respect to certain identifiable
intangible assets with indefinite lives totalling $1,600,000, and the
impairment of certain identifiable intangible assets with definite lives of
$502,000. Additionally, we realized non-cash compensation expense with respect
to certain stock awards (approximately $742,000) and stock options
(approximately $2,303,000) granted totalling approximately $3,045,000,
approximately $1,313,000 of which was attributable to our acceleration of
vesting of such stock awards and stock options. These items were partially
offset by the non-recurring non-cash gain of $1,750,000 from the change in the
fair value of the Put Option (as hereinafter defined) that we assumed in
connection with our acquisition of Silipos. The Put Option is contained in the
supply agreement between Silipos and Poly-Gel, L.L.C. ( Poly-Gel ) dated August 20,
1999, which we assumed in connection with the Silipos acquisition. The supply
agreement provided that Poly-Gel had the option (the  Put Option ) to cause
Silipos to purchase the assets or shares of Poly-Gel at a purchase price,
payable in cash, of 1.5 times Poly-Gel s revenues in the 12-month period
prior to the exercise of the Put Option. At September 30, 2004, the fair
value of the Put Option was $2,355,000. At December 31, 2004, the fair
value of the Put Option was $1,750,000. The Put Option expired unexercised on February 16,
2005 in accordance with its terms. In late 2004, we engaged in discussions with
Poly-Gel regarding our possible acquisition of Poly-Gel. However, these
discussions were terminated and we did not acquire Poly-Gel. We recorded the
reduction in the estimated fair value of the Put Option obligation of $605,000
at December 31, 2004, as a non-cash gain from the change in the estimated
fair value of the Put Option in the consolidated statement of operations for
the year ended December 31, 2004, and as described above, we recorded the
expiration of the Put Option as an additional non-cash gain of $1,750,000
during the three months ended March 31, 2005. The results for the year
ended December 31, 2005 also reflect the impact of the following events on
our historic business resulting from our acquisition and integration of
Silipos: interest expense incurred with respect to debt issued in connection
with the Silipos acquisition of approximately $842,000 (including amortization
of debt discount associated with warrants issued, amortization of debt
placement costs, and the amortization of interest cost related to the
increasing-rate debt and the Protection Payment, net of the realization of the
Refund Provision, as described below) in the $7.5 Million Note. Additionally,
the results were impacted by  an increase
in professional fees of approximately $1,245,000; an increase of approximately
$719,000 associated with stock-based compensation (stock award) (including
approximately $431,000 relating to the acceleration of the vesting of the stock
awards); an increase in severance compensation and related legal reserves of
$372,000; an increase in stock option compensation of approximately $2,303,000,
approximately $1,257,000 of which related to stock options for consulting
services and approximately $1,046,000 of which related to a modification to a
stock option agreement, (including approximately $882,000 relating to the
acceleration of the vesting of the stock options for consulting services); an
increase in amortization expense of approximately $288,000 associated with the
identifiable intangible assets with definite lives acquired in the Silipos
acquisition; and an increase of approximately $141,000 of depreciation.
Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded
approximately $572,000 as the write-off of the unamortized debt discount in
connection with the repayment of the $5,500,000 principal amount of 7% senior
subordinated notes due September 30, 2007 (the  Subordinated Notes ), and
approximately $58,000 as the write-off of the related debt placement fees (both
of which were included in interest expense in the consolidated statements of
operations).  

  We reported our operations in two segments, custom
orthotics and distributed products, through September 30, 2004. Beginning October 1,
2004, we are reporting operations in two segments, orthopedics and skincare.
Both our historic custom orthotics business and the distributed products
business are now included in the orthopedic segment for reporting purposes, as
are orthotics and prosthetic products sold by Silipos. Silipos products are
primarily sold through distributors.  

40     

Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005
were approximately $40,141,000, as compared to approximately $30,127,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of approximately
$10,014,000, or approximately 33.2%. The principal reason for the increase was
the net sales of approximately $17,505,000 in 2005 generated by Silipos, as
compared to $5,558,000 generated by Silipos in 2004 (which was acquired on September 30,
2004 and thus only contributed to the 2004 results for one quarter), partially
offset by a decline in net sales of approximately $1,933,000 in our historic
business. The decline was attributable to several factors described below.  

  Net sales of orthopedics were approximately
$35,641,000 in the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to
approximately $27,947,000 in the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase
of approximately $7,694,000, or approximately 27.5%. This increase was due to
the net sales increase of approximately $9,627,000 from the orthopedic segment
of Silipos, offset by a reduction in net sales in our historic business of
approximately $1,933,000.  

  Within the orthopedic segment, net sales of custom
orthotics for the year ended December 31, 2005 were approximately
$17,347,000, as compared to approximately $18,836,000 for the year ended December 31,
2004, a decrease of approximately $1,489,000. Net sales of ankle-foot orthoses
( AFO s ) increased from approximately $1,571,000 in the year ended December 31,
2004, to approximately $1,696,000 in the year ended December 31, 2005.
However, these increases were more than offset by a decrease in our other
custom foot orthotic sales (exclusive of revenue from AFO s) of approximately
$1,614,000, from approximately $17,265,000 in the year ended December 31,
2004, to approximately $15,651,000 in the year ended December 31, 2005.  

  Net sales of historic distributed products for the
year ended December 31, 2005 were approximately $5,289,000, as compared to
approximately $5,733,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease
of approximately $444,000, or approximately 7.7%. This decrease was
attributable to a decrease in sales of certain distributed products, including
shoes and PPT    ,
a proprietary shock absorption cushion product used, among other things, in the
fabrication of insoles, and shoes. 

  Net sales of Silipos branded orthopedic products were
approximately $13,005,000 in the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared
to approximately $3,378,000 in the year ended December 31, 2004. The 2005
sales represents the full year effect of the Silipos acquisition whereas the
2004 net sales represent only sales of Silipos following our acquisition of
Silipos on September 30, 2004.  

  Through Silipos, we generated net sales of
approximately $4,500,000 in our skincare segment in the year ended
December 31, 2005, as compared to $2,180,000 in the year ended
December 31, 2004. We had skincare sales in the year ended
December 31, 2004 for only the last three months of the year, following
our acquisition of Silipos on September 30, 2004. Net sales in the
skincare segment represented approximately 25.7% of Silipos  sales for the year
ended December 31, 2005, and represented approximately 11.2% of our total
net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. The cost of sales
associated with skincare was approximately $1,880,000, or approximately 41.8%
of net sales in our skincare segment, resulting in a gross profit of
approximately 58.2%.  

  Cost of sales, on a consolidated basis, increased
approximately $4,200,000, to approximately $22,223,000 in the year ended
December 31, 2005, as compared to approximately $18,023,000 in the year
ended December 31, 2004. This increase was primarily attributable to the
increase in cost of sales incurred by Silipos of approximately $4,558,000 in
the year ended December 31, 2005, offset by a decrease in cost of sales in
our historic business of approximately $358,000, which was attributable to a
decrease in net sales, partially offset by an increase in overhead and certain
material costs.  

41  

Cost of sales in the orthopedic segment was
approximately $20,343,000, or approximately 57.1% of orthopedic net sales in
the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to approximately
$17,129,000, or approximately 61.3% of orthopedic net sales in the year ended December 31,
2004. The reason for the increase in the cost of sales was the cost of sales
related to the Silipos  products, which nevertheless generated higher gross
profit.  

  Cost of sales for custom orthotics were approximately
$12,359,000, or approximately 71.2% of net sales of custom orthotics for the
year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to approximately $12,346,000, or
approximately 65.5% of net sales of custom orthotics for the year ended December 31,
2004. Cost of sales of historic distributed products were approximately
$3,175,000, or approximately 60.0% of net sales of distributed products in the
historic business for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to
approximately $3,546,000, or approximately 61.9% of net sales of distributed
products in the historic business for the year ended December 31, 2004.  

  Cost of sales for Silipos branded orthopedic products
were approximately $4,809,000, or approximately 37.0% of net sales of Silipos
branded orthopedic products of approximately $13,005,000 in the year ended December 31,
2005, as compared to approximately $1,237,000, or approximately 36.6% of net
sales of Silipos branded orthopedic products of approximately $3,378,000 in the
year ended December 31, 2004.  

  Cost of sales for skincare products were approximately
$1,880,000, or approximately 41.8% of net sales of skincare products of
approximately $4,500,000 in the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared
to approximately $894,000, or approximately 41.0% of net sales of skincare
products of approximately $2,180,000 in the year ended December 31, 2004.  

  Consolidated gross profit increased approximately
$5,814,000, or approximately 48%, to approximately $17,918,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2005, as compared to approximately $12,104,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2004. Consolidated gross profit as a percentage of
net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 was approximately 44.6%, as
compared to approximately 40.2% for the year ended December 31, 2004. The
principal reason for the increase in consolidated gross profit was the gross
profit contribution from Silipos of approximately $10,816,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2005. Silipos  consolidated gross profit as a
percentage of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 was
approximately 61.8%, which includes both orthopedics and skincare. Excluding
Silipos, our gross profit as a percentage of net sales was approximately 31.4%
for the year ended December 31, 2005, reflecting a decrease from a gross
profit of approximately 35.3% for the year ended December 31, 2004.  

  Gross profit for the orthopedic segment was
approximately $15,298,000, or approximately 42.9% of net sales of the
orthopedic segment in the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to
approximately $10,818,000, or approximately 38.7% of net sales of the
orthopedic segment in the year ended December 31, 2004.  

  Gross profit for custom orthotics was approximately
$4,988,000, or approximately 28.8% of net sales of custom orthotics for the
year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to approximately $6,490,000, or
approximately 34.5% of net sales of custom orthotics for the year ended December 31,
2004. Gross profit for our historic distributed products was approximately
$2,114,000, or approximately 40.0% of net sales of distributed products in the
historic business for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to
approximately $2,187,000, or approximately 38.1% of net sales of distributed
products in the historic business for the year ended December 31, 2004.
The decrease in gross profit in custom orthotics was attributable to increases
in certain overhead expenses, as well as a slight increase in certain material
prices. The slight decrease in gross profit in distributed products from our
historical business was attributable to a decrease in the net sales of historic
distributed products.  

42     

Gross profit generated by Silipos  branded orthopedic
sales was approximately $8,196,000, or approximately 63.0% of net sales of
Silipos  branded orthopedic products, as compared to $2,141,000, or
approximately 63.4% of net sales of Silipos  branded orthopedic products for
the year ended December 31, 2004. The gross profit was enhanced by our
decision to manufacture our own gel products used in production. Such products
were previously purchased from Poly-Gel pursuant to the supply agreement
between Silipos and Poly-Gel.  

  Gross profit generated by our skincare segment was
approximately $2,620,000, or approximately 58.2% of net sales in the skincare
segment for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $1,286,000,
or approximately 59.0% of net sales in the skincare segment for the year ended December 31,
2004.  

  General and administrative expenses for the year ended
December 31, 2005 were approximately $12,257,000, or approximately 30.5%
of net sales, as compared to approximately $5,928,000, or approximately 19.7%
of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004, representing an
increase of approximately $6,329,000. Silipos generated approximately
$1,539,000 of general and administrative expenses in the year ended December 31,
2005, which included legal fees totalling $333,000 ($150,000 with respect to
the Thermo-Ply litigation), as compared to $307,000 in the year ended December 31,
2004, which represents the full year effect of Silipos  operations in 2005. The
principal reason for the remaining increase of $5,145,000 was due to an
increase in stock option compensation (approximately $2,303,000, approximately
$1,257,000 of which related to stock options for consulting services and approximately
$1,046,000 of which related to a modification to a stock option agreement), an
increase in stock-based compensation (approximately $719,000), an increase in
severance and related legal reserves ($372,000), an increase in professional
fees (approximately $1,245,000), an increase in amortization expense associated
with the identifiable intangible assets with definite lives acquired in the
Silipos acquisition (approximately $288,000), an increase in depreciation
expense (approximately $141,000), and a write off of certain other assets
totalling $166,000.  

  Selling expenses increased approximately $2,452,000,
or approximately 49.5%, to approximately $7,403,000 for the year ended December 31,
2005, as compared to approximately $4,951,000 for the year ended December 31,
2004. Selling expenses as a percentage of net sales were approximately 18.4 %
and 16.4% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Silipos incurred approximately $4,005,000 of selling expenses in the year ended
December 31, 2005, as compared to approximately $1,816,000 of selling
expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004, and selling expenses in our
historic business increased by approximately $263,000, from approximately
$3,135,000 in the year ended December 31, 2004, to approximately
$3,398,000 in the year ended December 31, 2005. Silipos, which sells
primarily to distributors, allocates more resources, both in absolute amounts
and as a percentage of net sales, into sales, marketing, and sales-related
expenses, including royalties and sales commissions, than our historic
business. We intend to continue to closely monitor selling expenses in our
historic custom orthotics and distributed products businesses. Additionally, we
expect to continue to monitor and review the selling expenses of Silipos in
order to focus such expenditures on growth areas and products.  

  Research and development expense was approximately
$470,000 in the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to approximately
$49,000 in the year ended December 31, 2004. This was attributable
primarily to the fact that all of the research and development expense is
incurred by Silipos, which we owned for only one quarter in 2004. Additionally,
we, through Silipos, undertook several initiatives in 2005 that were not in
place in 2004.  

  During 2003, 2004 and 2005, the Company performed
impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in
accordance with SFAS No. 142, and evaluation of the useful lives of
acquired intangible assets subject to amortization were performed in accordance
with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets.   As a result of the
impairment test   

43     

completed as of October 1,
2005, we recognized a loss on impairment of identifiable intangible assets with
indefinite lives of $1,600,000 and recorded a loss on impairment of $502,000
with respect to identifiable intangible assets with definitive lives.  

  Interest expense was approximately $2,692,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to approximately $1,219,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of approximately $1,473,000.
The principal reasons for the increase in 2005 were:  

  (i)               Nominal interest
expense of approximately $547,000 in the year ended December 31, 2005
associated with the various components of the acquisition indebtedness incurred
in connection with the Silipos acquisition, which closed on September 30,
2004, of which $5.5 million was repaid in June 2005 and $10.5 million
was repaid in July 2005, as compared to $242,000 in the year ended December 31,
2004; 

  (ii)           Interest recorded with
respect to a capital lease assumed in the Silipos acquisition, which     totaled approximately $443,000 in the year
ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $111,000 in the year ended December 31,
2004; 

  (iii)       Interest amortization of the
estimated fair value of the warrants (debt discount) issued in connection with
the Subordinated Notes, which aggregated approximately $106,000, and the
amortization of the related debt placement costs of approximately $12,000 in
the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $57,000 and $6,000,
respectively for the year ended December 31, 2004; 

  (iv)         Amortization of interest
expense of approximately $677,000 (net of the $100,000 discount provided as
part of the settlement) associated with the increasing-rate debt and interest
costs related to the Protection Payment included in the $7.5 Million Note (see
Note 7,  Long-term Debt  and 

  (v)             The write-off of
approximately $572,000 of unamortized debt discount and the write-off of
approximately $58,000 of the related debt placement costs, discussed in (iii) above,
in connection with the repayment of the Subordinated Notes. 

  These amounts were partially offset by the realization
of the call option of $500,000, which was recorded as a reduction in interest
expense for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

  These amounts were further offset by a reduction in
interest expense associated with the $800,000 principal amount of 4% promissory
notes issued by us in 2002 in connection with our acquisition of Benefoot (the  Benefoot
Notes ), which were outstanding for part of the 2004 period, and which were
repaid in May 2004.  

  We recorded a reduction in the estimated fair value of
the Put Option obligation of $605,000 at December 31, 2004 from September 30,
2004 as a non-cash gain from the change in the estimated fair value of the Put
Option in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31,
2004. We recorded the expiration of the Put Option on February 16, 2005 as
an additional non-cash gain of $1,750,000 from the change in the estimated fair
value of the Put Option in the three months ended March 31, 2005 which was
included in the statement of operations for the year ended December 31,
2005.  

  The (benefit from)
provision for income taxes was approximately $(201,000) in the year ended December 31,
2005, as compared to $158,000 in the year ended December 31, 2004. In
2005, we provided for current foreign income taxes of approximately $113,000
and a deferred income tax benefit totalling approximately $314,000
(approximately $22,000 of which relates to foreign taxes). In the year ended December 31,
2004, we provided deferred income expense of $154,000 and a foreign tax provision
of $4,000.  

44     

Years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003    

  Net income for the year ended December 31, 2004,
was approximately $375,000, or $.08 per share on a fully diluted basis, as
compared to a net loss of approximately $(5,000), or $(.00) per share on a fully
diluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of
approximately $380,000. The principal reason for the increase in net income was
the contribution from Silipos in the fourth quarter of approximately $1,337,000
of pretax income which included the non-cash gain of $605,000 from the change
in the fair value of the Put Option (as hereinafter defined) we assumed in
connection with our acquisition of Silipos. We became liable under an
obligation in the supply agreement between Silipos and Poly-Gel dated August 20,
1999, under which Poly-Gel had the option (the  Put Option ) to cause Silipos
to purchase the assets or shares of Poly-Gel at a purchase price, payable in
cash, of 1.5 times Poly-Gel s revenues over the 12 month period prior to
the exercise of the Put Option. At September 30, 2004, the fair value of
the Put Option was approximately $2,355,000. At December 31, 2004, the
fair value of the Put Option was approximately $1,750,000. The Put Option
expired unexercised on February 16, 2005 in accordance with its terms, and
we have terminated all discussions with Poly-Gel regarding our possible
acquisition of Poly-Gel, and we do not expect to acquire Poly-Gel.
We recorded the reduction in the estimated fair value of the Put Option
obligation of $605,000 as a gain from the change in estimated fair value of the
Put Option in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31,
2004. Our historic business generated a pretax loss of approximately $805,000
in 2004, as compared to pretax income of approximately $161,000 in 2003. The
principal reason for the net loss in our historic business was a decrease in
net sales and corresponding gross profit, partially offset by cost containment
measures undertaken in 2004, as compared to 2003, all of which is discussed
below. Additionally, the 2004 operating results for the historic business
reflect the change in the fair value of the protection payment associated with
the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note issued to SSL in connection
with the Silipos acquisition, which resulted in an expense of $223,000, the
interest expense incurred with respect to debt issued in connection with the
Silipos acquisition of approximately $305,000 (including related warrants and
debt placement cost amortization), and the increase in amortization expense of
approximately $96,000 associated with the identifiable intangible assets with
definite lives acquired in the Silipos acquisition.  

  We reported our operations in two segments, custom
orthotics and distributed products through September 30, 2004. Beginning October 1,
2004, we are reporting our operations in two segments, orthopedics and
skincare. Both the custom orthotics business and the distributed products
business are now included in the orthopedic segment for reporting purposes.  

  Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004
were approximately $30,127,000, as compared to approximately $24,721,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of approximately $5,406,000
or approximately 21.9%. The principal reason for the increase was the net sales
of approximately $5,558,000 generated by Silipos (which was acquired as of September 30,
2004) in the fourth quarter of 2004, partially offset by a decline in net sales
of approximately $152,000 in our historic business. The decline was
attributable to several factors described below.  

  Net sales of orthopedics were approximately
$27,947,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to
approximately $24,721,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003, an
increase of approximately $3,226,000, or approximately 13.0%. This increase was
due to approximately $3,378,000 of net sales generated by the orthopedic
segment of Silipos, offset by a reduction in net sales in our historic business
of approximately $152,000.  

  Within the orthopedic segment, net sales of custom
orthotics for the year ended December 31, 2004 were approximately
$18,836,000, as compared to approximately $19,031,000 for the year ended December 31,
2003, a decrease of approximately $195,000. Shipping revenue related to our
sales of custom orthotics increased due to a domestic initiative to pass the
cost of shipping to the customers. As a result of the domestic shipping
initiative, we generated shipping revenue on orthotics of approximately $938,000
in   

45     

2004, as compared to
approximately $725,000 in 2003. Net sales of AFO s also increased from
approximately $1,290,000 in 2003, to approximately $1,571,000 in 2004, and net
sales of our First Choice    
line of orthotics increased from approximately $889,000 in 2003, to
approximately $1,234,000 in 2004. However, these increases were more than
offset by a decrease in our other custom foot orthotic sales (exclusive of
revenues from shipping, AFO s and First Choice) of approximately $1,034,000,
from approximately $16,127,000 in 2003, to approximately $15,093,000 in 2004.
In 2004, we raised custom foot orthotic prices by approximately 5% (including
shipping); however, we had a loss in sales unit volume of approximately 11% as
a result of the price increase. 

  Net sales of distributed products for the year ended December 31,
2004 were approximately $5,733,000, as compared to approximately $5,690,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of approximately $43,000, or
approximately 0.8%. The increase was due to an increase in sales of certain
distributed products including PPT (which increased approximately $279,000
(excluding related shipping revenue) or approximately 24.5%), which was
partially offset by a reduction in the sale of therapeutic shoes. This decrease
was primarily due to a 10% price decrease for therapeutic shoes, which was
intended to stimulate sales; however, there was an approximate 5% reduction in
sales unit volume due to continued competitive pressure and an approximate 6%
reduction in sales unit volume due to a discontinuation of a direct-to-consumer
shoe program in early 2004.  

  Net sales of Silipos branded orthopedic products were
approximately $3,378,000 in the fourth quarter of 2004. Related cost of sales
were approximately $1,237,000, or approximately 36.6%, resulting in a gross
profit of approximately 63.4%.  

  We, through Silipos, generated net sales of
approximately $2,180,000 in its skincare segment. Such net sales were
approximately 39.2% of Silipos  sales for the period we owned Silipos, and
represented 18.9% of our total net sales since we acquired Silipos. The cost of
sales associated with skincare was approximately $894,000, or approximately
41.0% of net sales in our skincare segment, resulting in a gross profit of
approximately 59.0%.  

  Cost of sales increased approximately $1,973,000, to
approximately $18,023,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004, as
compared to approximately $16,050,000 for the year ended December 31,
2003. This increase was primarily attributable to the cost of sales contributed
by Silipos of approximately $2,131,000 in the fourth quarter of 2004, offset by
a decrease in cost of sales in the historic business of approximately $158,000,
which was attributable to a decrease in net sales and our focus on cost containment
measures.  

  Cost of sales in the orthopedic segment were
approximately $17,129,000, or approximately 61.3% of orthopedic net sales in
the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to approximately
$16,050,000, or approximately 64.9% of orthopedic net sales in the year ended December 31,
2003. The reason for the increase in the cost of sales was the cost of sales
related to the Silipos  products.  

  Costs of sales for custom orthotics were approximately
$12,346,000, or approximately 65.5% of net sales of custom orthotics for the
year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to approximately $12,910,000, or
approximately 67.8% of net sales of custom orthotics for the year ended December 31,
2003. Cost of sales of distributed products were approximately $3,546,000, or
approximately 61.9% of net sales of distributed products in the historic
business for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to
approximately $3,140,000, or approximately 55.2% of net sales of distributed
products in the historic business for the year ended December 31, 2003.  

  Cost of sales for Silipos  branded orthopedic products
were approximately $1,237,000, or approximately 36.6% of net sales of Silipos 
branded orthopedic products of approximately $3,378,000.  

  Cost of sales for skincare products were approximately
$894,000, or approximately 41.0% of net sales of skincare products of
approximately $2,180,000.  

46     

Gross profit increased approximately $3,433,000, or
approximately 39.6%, to approximately $12,104,000 for the year ended December 31,
2004, as compared to approximately $8,671,000 in 2003. Gross profit as a
percentage of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 was
approximately 40.2%, as compared to approximately 35.1% for the year ended December 31,
2003. The principal reason for the increase in gross profit was the
approximately $3,427,000 gross profit contribution of Silipos. Silipos  gross
profit as a percentage of its net sales for the period during which we owned
Silipos was approximately 61.7%, which includes both orthopedics and skincare.
Excluding Silipos, our gross profit as a percentage of net sales was
approximately 35.3%, reflecting a slight increase over a gross profit of
approximately 35.1% in 2003.  

  Gross profit for the orthopedic segment was
approximately $10,818,000, or approximately 38.7% of net sales of the
orthopedic segment in the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to
approximately $8,671,000, or approximately 35.1% of net sales in the year ended
December 31, 2003.  

  Gross profit for custom orthotics was approximately
$6,490,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to
approximately $6,121,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003. Gross
profit for distributed products was approximately $2,187,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2004, as compared to approximately $2,550,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2003. The increase in gross profit as a percentage in
net sales of custom orthotics from approximately 32.2% in 2003, to
approximately 34.5% in 2004, was attributable to an approximate 5% price increase
in custom orthotics (including shipping charges), and an increase in the sale
of ankle-foot orthotics, which have a higher gross profit than other custom
orthotics, offset by an approximate 11% reduction in the sales unit volume of
custom orthotics. The sales unit volume declined due to the price increase. The
decrease in gross profit percentage in distributed products from our historical
business, from approximately 44.8% in 2003, to approximately 38.1% in 2004, was
attributable to an approximate 10% price decrease in the therapeutic shoe
program and an approximate 8% reduction in the sales unit volume, partially
offset by an increase in the sale of other distributed products, which include
PPT, which has a higher profit margin, but lower unit sales volume, than the
therapeutic shoe program. The price decrease for the therapeutic shoe program
was designed to stimulate sales; however, there was an approximate 5% reduction
in sales unit volume due to continued competitive pressure and an approximate
6% reduction in sales unit volume due to the discontinuation of a
direct-to-consumer shoe program in early 2004. Additionally, in the aggregate,
gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased principally due to lower
labor costs and lower manufacturing overhead, partially offset by increases in
certain product costs. The lower labor costs and lower manufacturing overhead,
resulting in a higher gross profit percentage, which we expect to benefit from
in the future, was the result of cost containment measures undertaken in 2004
and described in the cost-of-sales analysis above. The cost containment
measures included a reduction in staff of approximately 6%, and a decrease in
overtime required, which was consistent with the reduction in sales unit volume
in the custom orthotics segment.  

  Gross profit generated by Silipos  branded orthopedic
sales was approximately $2,141,000, or approximately 63.4% of net sales of
Silipos  branded orthopedic products. The gross profit was enhanced by our
decision to manufacture its own gel products used in production. Such products
were previously purchased from an unrelated supplier.  

  Gross profit generated by our skincare segment was
approximately $1,286,000, or approximately 59.0% of net sales in the skincare
segment. The gross profit was in line with our expectations when we acquired
Silipos.  

  General and administrative expenses for the year ended
December 31, 2004 were approximately $5,928,000, or approximately 19.7% of
net sales, as compared to approximately $4,775,000, or approximately 19.3% of
net sales for the year ended December 31, 2003, representing an increase
of approximately $1,153,000. Silipos generated approximately $307,000 of
general and administrative   

47     

expenses in the fourth
quarter of 2004. Additionally, in 2004, we took a charge of approximately
$292,000 with respect to transaction costs associated with the abandoned
acquisition of Poly-Gel. Further, we incurred a charge of approximately
$65,000 for capital-based franchise taxes as a result of the acquisition
of Silipos. We recognized approximately $96,000 of amortization in connection
with identifiable intangible assets with definitive lives acquired in the
Silipos transaction. Finally, we incurred increased costs (depreciation of
approximately $148,000) associated with the acquisition and implementation of a
new information technology platform, as well as increases in professional fees
(approximately $75,000) and insurance expense (approximately $49,000) in
connection with compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, and the revised
listing requirements of The Nasdaq Stock Market, which costs are expected to
remain at such levels.  

  Selling expenses increased approximately $1,820,000,
or approximately 58.1%, to approximately $4,951,000, for the year ended December 31,
2004, as compared to approximately $3,131,000 for the year ended December 31,
2003. Selling expenses as a percentage of net sales were approximately 16.4%
for the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to approximately 12.7%
for the year ended December 31, 2003. Silipos contributed approximately
$1,816,000 of selling expenses in the fourth quarter of 2004, which comprised
substantially all of the increase in selling expenses for the year ended December 31,
2004 over the year ended December 31, 2003. Silipos, which sells to
distributors, allocates more resources, both in absolute amounts and as a
percentage of net sales, into sales, marketing, and sales-related
expenses, including royalties and sales commissions, than our historic
business. We will continue to closely monitor selling expenses in our historic
business,   i.e.  , custom orthotics
and distributed products business. Additionally, we expect to rationalize the
selling expenses of Silipos in order to focus such expenditures on growth areas
and products.  

  Interest expense
was approximately $1,219,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004, as
compared to approximately $836,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003,
an increase of approximately $383,000, or approximately 45.8%. The principal
reasons for the increase in 2004 were:  

  (i)               The interest expense
of approximately $242,000 associated with the acquisition indebtedness incurred
in connection with the Silipos acquisition, which closed on September 30,
2004; 

  (ii)           The interest recorded with
respect to the capital lease assumed in the Silipos acquisition, which totaled
approximately $111,000 in 2004; and 

  (iii)       The interest amortization of
the estimated fair value of the warrants issued in connection with the
Subordinated Notes, which aggregated approximately $57,000 and the amortization
of the related debt placement costs of approximately $6,000. 

  These amounts were partially offset by the final
repayment in May 2004 of $800,000 outstanding under our 4% promissory
notes issued in 2002 in connection with our acquisition of Benefoot (the
 Benefoot Notes ), which were outstanding for only part of the year.  

  At September 30, 2004, the fair value of the Put
Option was approximately $2,355,000. At December 31, 2004, the fair value
of the Put Option was approximately $1,750,000. The Put Option expired
unexercised on February 16, 2005. We recorded the reduction in the
estimated fair value of the Put Option obligation of $605,000 as a gain from
the change in estimated fair value of the Put Option in the consolidated statement
of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004. We will record the
expiration of the Put Option in the first quarter of 2005 as an additional gain
of $1,750,000 from the change in the estimated fair value of the Put Option.  

48  

Additionally, we recorded $223,000 as additional
expense to reflect a change in the fair value of our obligation under the
$7.5 Million Note and $3.0 Million Note to pay a $500,000 yield
enhancement on March 31, 2005 or increase, effective April 1, 2005, by
$1,000,000 the principal amount of $7.5 Million Note issued to SSL in
connection with the Silipos acquisition (the $500,000 yield enhancement or the
$1,000,000 increase in principal are each referred to as the  Protection
Payment ). See   Long-term Debt .  

  The provision for income
taxes decreased to approximately $158,000 in 2004 from approximately $167,000
in 2003. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 142, we would not have needed a
valuation allowance for the portion of the net operating losses equal to the
amount of tax-deductible goodwill and trade names amortization expected to
occur during the carryforward period of the net operating losses based on the
timing of the reversal of these taxable temporary differences. As a result of
the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the reversal will not occur during the
carryforward period of the net operating losses. Therefore, we recorded a
deferred income tax expense of approximately $154,000 and approximately
$158,000 during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
The deferred income tax expense recorded in 2003 was partially offset by the
recognition of a deferred tax benefit of approximately $6,000 related to an
alternative minimum tax carryforward. Additionally, our foreign tax provision
increased to approximately $4,000 in 2004 from $119 in 2003 because we had
pre-tax income from foreign operations in 2004.  

     Liquidity and Capital Resources   

  Working capital as of December 31, 2005 was
approximately $9,204,000, as compared to approximately $1,387,000 as of December 31,
2004. Cash balances at December 31, 2005 were approximately $18,829,000,
an increase of approximately $14,919,000, from approximately $3,910,000 at December 31,
2004. The increase in working capital at December 31, 2005 is attributable
to the receipt of the proceeds from the underwritten public offering of stock
totalling approximately $33,975,000, less expenses paid to date of
approximately $4,665,000, the repayment of the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0
Million Note plus interest (including the Protection Payment, net of the Refund
Provision), the payment of $900,000 to satisfy our obligation under the Silipos
purchase agreement, and cash payments for purchases of property and equipment
of approximately $990,000. The increase in cash at December 31, 2005, as
compared to December 31, 2004, is primarily attributable to the remaining
net proceeds from the public offering.  

  Net cash provided by operating activities was
approximately $3,867,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. Net cash
provided by operating activities was approximately $648,000 in the year ended December 31,
2004. Net cash provided by operations in the year ended December 31, 2005
resulted from decreases in accounts receivable, inventory and prepaid expenses,
and an increase in accounts payable and other current liabilities. The net cash
used in operating activities in the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted
primarily from increases in inventory levels, and prepaid expenses and other
current assets, and increases in accounts receivable and a decrease in accounts
payable and other current liabilities.  

  Net cash used in investing activities in the year
ended December 31, 2005 was approximately $2,328,000. Net cash used in
investing activities was approximately $6,994,000 in the year ended December 31,
2004. Net cash used in investing activities in the year ended December 31,
2005 reflects the cash payment for amounts related to the acquisition of
Silipos of approximately $1,277,000, of which $900,000  represents the settlement of the obligation
under the Silipos stock purchase agreement to pay SSL $1 million if we did not
acquire Poly-Gel before March 31, 2006, 
and purchases of property and equipment of approximately $990,000,
principally the investment in our new information technology platform,
partially offset by the sale of certain property and equipment of approximately
$70,000. Net cash used in investing activities in the year ended December 31,
2004 represented the cash utilized to purchase Silipos (net of cash acquired)
of $5,331,000, the investment in property and equipment of approximately   

49     

$1,198,000, principally
our new information technology platform, and approximately $466,000, which
represented the payment of certain deferred contingent consideration with
respect to the Benefoot transaction.  

  We generated cash flows from financing activities of
approximately $13,406,000, which represents the gross proceeds from the public
offering of common stock of approximately $33,975,000, less expenses paid
through December 31, 2005 of approximately $4,665,000, less the repayment
of the Subordinated Notes ($5.5 million) plus interest, the $7.5 Million Note
plus interest, and the $3.0 Million Note plus interest. Net cash from financing
activities was approximately $4,702,000 in the year ended December 31,
2004 which reflects the proceeds from the issuance of the Subordinated Notes,
$1,600 received from the exercise of stock options, and the repayment of the
$800,000 promissory notes issued in connection with the Benefoot acquisition in
May 2004.  

  Our ability to fund working capital requirements and
make acquisitions and anticipated capital expenditures and satisfy our debt
obligations will depend on our future performance, which is subject to general
economic, financial and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, as
well as the availability to us of other sources of liquidity. We believe that
based on current levels of operations and anticipated growth, our cash flow
from operations will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to fund
our working capital requirements, and anticipated capital expenditures.  

  Pursuant to the terms of our outstanding $7.5 Million
Note, on March 15, 2005 we notified SSL, the holder of the $7.5 Million
Note, of our election to increase the principal amount of such note, effective
as of April 1, 2005, by $1,000,000 rather than make an additional payment
of $500,000 by March 31, 2005. On March 31, 2005, we entered into a
Settlement Agreement and limited release with SSL, pursuant to which the purchase
price of Silipos was reduced by $232,000. The reduction in the purchase price
was satisfied by a reduction in the principal balance of the $7.5 Million Note.
The $7.5 Million Note, which had a revised face value of $8,268,000, was
scheduled to mature on March 31, 2006.  

  The Silipos purchase agreement provides that if we
acquire Poly-Gel for less than $4,500,000 prior to March 31, 2006, and
liabilities and damages relating to claims brought by Poly-Gel, Silipos   former supplier of mineral based gels, arising
out of the supply agreement between Silipos and Poly-Gel dated August 20,
1999, the manufacture, marketing or sale of products made from gel not
purchased from Poly-Gel, alleged misappropriation of trade secrets or
other confidential information (including gel formulation) of Poly-Gel, as well
as any other alleged violations of the supply agreement (the  Potential
Poly-Gel Claims ), do not exceed $2,000,000, we are obligated, pursuant to the
terms of the Silipos purchase agreement, to pay SSL an additional amount of
$4,500,000 less the purchase price paid for Poly-Gel which could result
in a payment to SSL of up to $4.5 million. Our aggregate liability to SSL under
this provision of the Silipos purchase agreement could be as high as $4.5
million.  

  Under the terms of the Silipos stock purchase
agreement, if we do not acquire Poly-Gel prior to March 31, 2006, and the
amount of any liabilities for Potential Poly-Gel Claims does not exceed
$2,500,000, we were obligated to pay SSL $1,000,000, plus an amount not to
exceed $500,000, for certain costs, if incurred by SSL, in defense of any such
Potential Poly-Gel Claims. As part of the settlement of the $7.5 Million Note
and the $3.0 Million Note, we recorded and paid $900,000 as full settlement of
the $1.0 million obligation. SSL remains obligated under the Silipos stock
purchase agreement for certain Potential Poly-Gel Claims, if any.  

  In June 2005, we reached a further settlement
with SSL to repay the acquisition indebtedness incurred and certain other
obligations due under the Silipos stock purchase agreement. Additionally, we
agreed to satisfy our obligations under the Silipos stock purchase agreement to
pay SSL Holdings, Inc. $1.0 million by March 31, 2006 if we did not
acquire Poly-Gel by such date.  

  On July 15, 2005, we consummated the settlement
with SSL to repay the acquisition indebtedness incurred and certain other
obligations due under the Silipos stock purchase agreement. We paid off the   

50     

$7.5 Million Note, which
had a face value of $8.268 million, plus accrued interest of approximately
$248,000 ($224,000 through June 30, 2005), the $3.0 Million Note plus
accrued interest of approximately $75,000 ($69,000 through June 30, 2005)
less the recoupment of the Refund Provision (as defined in Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements,  Long Term Debt ) of $0.5 million. In consideration of
our earlier than scheduled repayment to SSL of the $7.5 Million Note, the $3.0
Million Note and the $1.0 million payment, SSL provided us with a $100,000
discount with respect to the $7.5 Million Note and a $100,000 discount with
respect to the $1.0 million payment.  

  In the year ended December 31,
2005, we generated a net loss after income taxes of approximately $4,557,000,
which included loss on impairment of certain identifiable intangible assets
totalling $2,102,000. Additionally, we incurred compensation charges for stock
awards, stock options granted to consultants, modifications to stock option
agreements and acceleration of vesting of certain stock awards and options
which in the aggregate were approximately $3,045,000. These charges were
partially offset by the non-cash gain of $1,750,000 for the change in the
estimated fair value of the Put Option. In the year ended December 31,
2004, we generated earnings after taxes of approximately $375,000, which
included a non-cash gain of $605,000 for the change in the estimated fair value
of the Put Option. In the year ended December 31, 2003, we did not have
earnings after taxes. There can be no assurance that our business will generate
cash flow from operations sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs,
which include the Convertible Notes in the principal amount of $14,439,000 that
mature in August 2006. In such event, we would likely need to raise
additional funds through public or private equity, borrowings from banks or
other institutional lenders or debt financings. In addition, our growth
strategy contemplates our making acquisitions, and we may need to raise
additional funds for this purpose. We may finance acquisitions of other
companies or product lines in the future from existing cash balances, through
borrowings from banks or other institutional lenders, and/or the public or
private offerings of debt or equity securities. We cannot assure you that any
such funds will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all.  

    Changes in Significant Balance Sheet Accounts December 31,
2005    

  Accounts receivable, net, decreased from approximately
$7,056,000 at December 31, 2004, to approximately $5,182,000 at December 31,
2005, a decrease of approximately $1,874,000. The decrease is primarily
attributable to a decrease in accounts receivable relating to Silipos from
approximately $3,324,000, net at December 31, 2004 to approximately
$1,856,000, net at December 31, 2005, and an increase in provision for
doubtful accounts from approximately $380,000 at December 31, 2004, to
$430,000 at December 31, 2005. The difference in accounts receivable
balances relating to Silipos is attributable to the decrease in fourth quarter
sales, which were approximately $3,863,000 in 2005, as compared to
approximately $5,558,000 in the fourth quarter of 2004, due partially to the
loss of certain orthopedic customers in the 2005 quarter, as well as the
reduction in the skincare sales in the three months ended December 31,
2005, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2004 which
reflected very strong skincare sales.  

  Inventories, net, decreased from approximately
$4,846,000 at December 31, 2004, to approximately $4,123,000 at December 31,
2005, a decrease of approximately $723,000, which was attributable partially to
the net increase in the reserve for excess or obsolete inventory from
approximately $369,000 at December 31, 2004 to approximately $564,000 at December 31,
2005 and partly to our focus to reduce certain excess inventory levels,
principally in the distributed products group of our orthopedic segment.  

  Prepaid expenses and other current assets decreased
from approximately $1,388,000 at December 31, 2004, to approximately
$820,000 at December 31, 2005. The 2004 balances included $418,000
incurred in connection with the registration statement of our underwritten
public offering which were charged to additional paid in capital upon the
completion of the offering. This was partially offset by prepaid rent, supplies
and prepaid conventions totalling $118,000.  

51     

Property and equipment, net, decreased from
approximately $7,181,000 at December 31, 2004, to approximately $7,035,000
at December 31, 2005, a decrease of approximately $146,000. The change was
primarily attributable to the investment in property and equipment of
approximately $990,000, offset by depreciation expense of approximately
$1,011,000 in the year ended December 31, 2005, and the sale of
certain property and equipment that had a net book value of approximately
$60,000. We do not currently anticipate significant additions to property and
equipment in 2006 for our existing business, other than items purchased for either
production or administrative purposes in the normal course of business.  

  Identifiable intangible assets, net, decreased from
approximately $9,343,000 at December 31, 2004, to approximately $6,604,000
at December 31, 2005, a decrease of approximately $2,739,000, $637,000 of
which was attributable to amortization expense recorded for the year ended December 31,
2005 and $2,102,000 of which was attributable to the provision for impairment
in connection with certain identifiable intangible assets.  

  Other assets decreased from approximately $762,000 at December 31,
2004, to approximately $460,000 at December 31, 2005, a decrease of
approximately $302,000. The change was primarily attributable to the
amortization of deferred debt acquisition costs of approximately $193,000, and
the write-off of the unamortized portion of debt placement costs of
approximately $58,000 and the write-off of certain other assets totalling
$166,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, partially offset by
deposits of approximately $100,000 with an investment banking firm engaged to
find acquisition targets.  

  Goodwill increased from approximately $13,321,000 at December 31,
2004, to approximately $14,119,000 at December 31, 2005, an increase of
approximately $798,000. The increase was attributable to the payment of
$900,000 as the full settlement of our obligation under the Silipos stock
purchase agreement to pay SSL Holdings, Inc., $1 million if we did not
acquire Poly-Gel by March 31, 2006, and which was accounted for under SFAS
No. 141. The settlement agreement was consummated and payment was made on July 15,
2005. Additionally, we recorded professional fees of approximately
$66,000 with respect to the acquisition and a write-down totalling
approximately $64,000 of certain deferred tax assets and property and equipment
to their fair value. These increases were partially offset by a $232,000
reduction in the purchase price paid by us to SSL because Silipos did not
satisfy certain minimum working capital requirements as of the closing date of
the acquisition pursuant to the Silipos purchase agreement.  

  Accounts payable increased from approximately
$1,140,000 at December 31, 2004, to approximately $1,281,000 at December 31,
2005, an increase of approximately $141,000 which was consistent with our level
of operation.  

  Other current liabilities decreased from approximately
$4,265,000 at December 31, 2004, to approximately $3,675,000 at December 31,
2005, a decrease of approximately $590,000. The change was primarily
attributable to the payment of certain accrued liabilities that existed at December 31,
2004 related to the acquisition of Silipos (approximately $373,000) and our
underwritten public offering (approximately $403,000) and accrued interest with
respect to Silipos-related debt (approximately $144,000). Additionally, accrued
liabilities for Silipos decreased by approximately $453,000, accrued bonuses
decreased by approximately $95,000, accrued franchise taxes decreased by
approximately $50,000 and accrued shipping 
decreased by approximately $65,000; these decreases were partially
offset by increases in certain accrued liabilities such as professional fees
(approximately $494,000) and accrued severance (approximately $335,000).  

  Deferred income taxes
payable decreased by approximately $315,000, from approximately $1,640,000 at December 31,
2004, to approximately $1,325,000 at December 31, 2005. The decrease was
primarily attributable to the income tax effect of the excess of amortization
recorded for financial statement purposes over amortization deducted for income
tax purposes plus the deferred tax effect (benefit) of the provision for
impairment of certain identifiable intangible assets recorded for financial
statement purposes.  

52     

Changes in Significant Balance Sheet Accounts December 31,
2004    

  Accounts receivable, net, increased from approximately
$3,628,000 at December 31, 2003 to approximately $7,056,000 at December 31,
2004, an increase of approximately $3,428,000. The increase is primarily
attributable to the accounts receivable acquired in the Silipos acquisition of
approximately $3,366,000, (approximately $3,324,000 at December 31, 2004),
as well as a slight increase in accounts receivable from our other business,
due mostly to lower collections in the year ended December 31, 2004.  

  Inventories, net, increased from approximately
$2,497,000 at December 31, 2003 to approximately $4,846,000 at December 31,
2004, an increase of approximately $2,349,000. Inventory acquired in the
Silipos acquisition of approximately $2,111,000 (approximately $1,973,000 at December 31,
2004) accounted for most of the increase with the balance being attributable to
increased purchases of distributed products (including shoes) to take advantage
of volume pricing and to build inventory levels for flexibility.  

  Prepaid expenses and other increased from
approximately $495,000 at December 31, 2003 to approximately $1,388,000 at
December 31, 2004, an increase of approximately $893,000. The increase was
primarily attributable to prepaid expenses of Silipos of $327,000 at
acquisition (approximately $349,000 at December 31, 2004), as well as
certain costs associated with the registration statement filed by us for the
proposed offering of common stock.  

  Property and equipment, net, increased from
approximately $2,496,000 at December 31, 2003 to approximately $7,181,000
at December 31, 2004, an increase of approximately $4,685,000. The
increase was attributable to property and equipment acquired in the Silipos
transaction of approximately $4,059,000 (approximately $3,995,000 at December 31,
2004), plus investment in property and equipment in the year ended December 31,
2004 of approximately $1,198,000 primarily attributable to the investment in
our new technology platform, partially offset by depreciation expense of
approximately $604,000 in 2004.  

  Identifiable intangible assets, net, increased from
approximately $3,960,000 at December 31, 2003 to approximately $9,343,000
at December 31, 2004, an increase of approximately $5,383,000. This
increase was comprised of identifiable intangible assets of approximately
$5,732,000 recorded with respect to the acquisition of Silipos, offset by
amortization expense of approximately $349,000 recorded for the year ended December 31,
2004.  

  Other assets decreased from approximately $877,000 at December 31,
2003 to approximately $762,000 at December 31, 2004, a decrease of
approximately $115,000. The change was primarily attributable to amortization
of deferred debt acquisition costs of approximately $199,000, partially offset
by the debt acquisition costs capitalized in connection with the sale of the Subordinated
Notes of approximately $76,000.  

  Goodwill increased from approximately $4,536,000 at December 31,
2003 to approximately $13,321,000 at December 31, 2004, an increase of
approximately $8,785,000, of which approximately $8,621,000 was associated with
the Silipos acquisition and approximately $164,000 was associated with the
performance-based contingent consideration related to the Benefoot
transaction.  

  Accounts payable increased from approximately
$1,133,000 at December 31, 2003, to approximately $1,140,000 at December 31,
2004, an increase of approximately $7,000, which represented the net effect of
the accounts payable assumed in the Silipos acquisition of approximately
$595,000 (approximately $304,000 at December 31, 2004), partially offset
by a decrease in accounts payable of approximately $588,000 (including
Silipos), which was primarily the result of our taking advantage of certain
discounts for early payments.  

  Other current liabilities increased from approximately
$2,114,000 at December 31, 2003 to approximately $4,265,000 at December 31,
2004, an increase of approximately $2,151,000. The change was primarily
attributable to accrued liabilities associated with Silipos of approximately
$1,419,000   

53     

(approximately $1,498,000
at December 31, 2004) plus accrued transaction costs relating to the
Silipos acquisition, the cost of approximately $776,000 relating to the filing
of a registration statement in connection with our proposed offering of common
stock, and accrued interest of approximately $144,000, partially offset by the
repayment of deferred contingent consideration of approximately $302,000 at December 31,
2003, and a reduction of accrued rebates of approximately $52,000 at December 31,
2004, compared to December 31, 2003.  

  Deferred income taxes
payable increased by approximately $1,139,000 at December 31, 2004 as
compared to December 31, 2003, from approximately $501,000 to
approximately $1,640,000, primarily as the result of deferred income taxes
associated with intangible assets primarily relating to the acquisition of
Silipos.  

    Contractual Obligations    

  Certain
of our facilities and equipment are leased under noncancelable operating and
capital leases. Additionally, as discussed below, we have certain long-term and
short-term indebtedness. The following is a schedule, by fiscal year, of future
minimum rental payments required under current operating and capital leases and
debt repayment requirements as of December 31, 2005 measured from the end
of our fiscal year (December 31):   

Long-term Debt    

  On October 31,
2001, we completed the sale of $14,589,000 principal amount of our 4%
convertible subordinated notes due August 31, 2006 (the  Convertible Notes ),
in a private placement. Langer Partners, whose sole manager and voting member
is Warren B. Kanders, our Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 12,
2004, holds $2,500,000 principal amount of these Convertible Notes. The
Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at a
conversion price of $6.00 per share (equal to the market value of our stock on October 31,
2001), subject to anti-dilution protections in the event that, among other
things, we issue common stock or equity securities convertible into or
exchangeable for common stock at a price below the conversion price of the
Convertible Notes, and are subordinated to existing or future senior
indebtedness of the Company. Among other provisions, we may, at our option,
call, prepay, redeem, repurchase, convert or otherwise acquire (collectively,  Call )
the Convertible Notes, in whole or in part after August 31, 2003. If we
elect to Call any of the Convertible Notes, the holders of the Convertible
Notes may elect to convert the Convertible Notes into our common stock.
Interest is payable semi-annually on the last day of June and December. On
June 20, 2005, $150,000 of the Convertible Notes were converted into
25,000 shares of common stock in accordance with their terms. Interest expense
on the Convertible Notes for years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
was $580,377, $583,560 and $583,560, respectively.  

  We
received net proceeds of $13,668,067 from the offering of the Convertible
Notes. The cost of raising these proceeds was $920,933, which is being
amortized over the life of the Convertible Notes. The amortization of these
costs for the years December 31, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $193,000
and   

54     

approximately $194,000, respectively, and were
included in interest expense in the related consolidated statements of
operations.  

  We
issued $1,800,000 in promissory notes in connection with the acquisition of
Benefoot. $1,000,000 of the notes were repaid on May 6, 2003 and the
balance was repaid on May 6, 2004. Related interest expense for the year
ended December 31, 2004 was $11,111.  

  On September 30, 2004, we completed the
acquisition of all of the outstanding stock of Silipos (see Note 2(c)  Acquisition
of Silipos  of the our financial statements included in Item 8 below). In
connection with the acquisition of Silipos, we issued:  

             the Subordinated Notes in
the principal amount of $5,500,000 to ten accredited investors; 

             the $7.5 Million Note, as
previously defined; and 

             the $3.0 Million Note, as
previously defined. 

  The
Subordinated Notes were issued to fund the cash portion of the purchase price
for Silipos. Langer Partners held $750,000 principal amount of these
Subordinated Notes. As part of such issuance, we also issued warrants to
purchase 110,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.02 per
share, subject to adjustments under certain circumstances, which warrants are
exercisable until September 30, 2009, commencing on September 30,
2005. The fair value of the warrants at September 30, 2004 was determined
to be $735,900, using the Black-Scholes pricing model and the following
assumptions: risk free interest rate of 2.89%, dividend of 0%, volatility of
83%, and an expected life of three years and was recorded as debt discount.
Such amount was originally being amortized over the term of the Subordinated
Notes, and recorded as an additional interest expense. Additionally, we issued
10,000 warrants, under the same terms as described above, to an
unaffiliated third party for placing the Subordinated Notes, which warrants
have a fair value of $75,800, using the Black-Scholes pricing model and the
same assumptions used to value the other warrants. We recognized amortization
expense of $106,386 and $12,252 with respect to the debt discount (warrants)
and debt placement fees for the year ended December 31, 2005,
respectively, which was included in interest expense in the consolidated
statement of operations, all of which was recognized in the six months ended June 30,
2005. There were no such amounts in the prior year periods. We incurred
interest expense of $175,389 with respect to the Subordinated Notes, all of
which was recorded as of June 30, 2005. We repaid the Subordinated Notes
plus accrued interest, which totalled $5,675,389, on June 15, 2005, with a
portion of the net proceeds from our public offering of common stock (see Note 6,
 Public Offering ). Accordingly, as of June 30, 2005, we recognized
$572,116 with respect to the unamortized debt discount (fair value of the
warrants) and the unamortized debt placement fees of $57,973, which is included
in interest expense on the consolidated statement of operations for the year
ended December 31, 2005.  

55  

The $7.5 Million Note was secured by the pledge of the
stock of Silipos and was subject to increase pursuant to a Protection Payment
as defined in Note 1 (b). Both the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note
provided for semi-annual payments of interest at the rate of 5.5% per annum
with the first payments due and paid February 1, 2005. The interest rate
on the $7.5 Million Note increased from 5.5% to 7.5% on April 1, 2005. We
recorded the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note at their face value,
which represented the fair value of the notes on their date of issuance (September 30,
2004). We adjusted the carrying value of the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0
Million Note to $7.986 million and $2.737 million, respectively, at December 31,
2004, and further adjusted the carrying value of the notes as of January 1,
2005 to $7.723 million and $3.0 million, respectively, upon our determination
to follow EITF No. 86-15 with respect to the $7.5 Million Note (see
Note 1 (b)). On March 31, 2005, we entered into a settlement agreement
(the  Settlement Agreement ) and limited release among the parties to the
Silipos purchase agreement. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the
parties exchanged mutual releases and agreed to a $232,000 reduction in the purchase
price previously paid by us to SSL because Silipos did not satisfy certain
minimum working capital requirements as of the closing date of the acquisition
pursuant to the Silipos purchase agreement. The reduction to the purchase price
was satisfied by amending and restating the $7.5 Million Note, which was
originally due on March 31, 2006 to reflect the reduction in the purchase
price of $232,000. In addition, the $7.5 Million Note was amended and restated
to reflect our election on March 15, 2005, in accordance with its terms,
to increase the principal amount effective, April 1, 2005, by the
$1,000,000 Protection Payment rather than to make an additional cash payment of
$500,000 by March 31, 2005. As amended and restated and effective as of April 1,
2005, the face value of the $7.5 Million Note was $8,268,000. Additionally,
under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the parties also agreed to amend
and restate the $3.0 Million Note, which was originally due on December 31,
2009. The $3.0 Million Note was amended and restated to provide that it was to
be reduced by $500,000 if the $7.5 Million Note was repaid in full on or before
May 31, 2005, and would be further reduced by an additional $500,000 if
both the $3.0 Million Note and the $7.5 Million Note have been repaid in full
on or before March 31, 2006. We determined that the Protection Payment
represented a term-extending option that did not meet the criteria for
bifurcation under SFAS No. 133 in that there is no provision for net
settlement. We followed the guidance of EITF No. 86-15 which
addresses the calculation of interest cost on increasing-rate debt and requires
that interest costs should be determined using the interest method based on the
estimated outstanding term of the debt (12 months from issuance). Accordingly,
we recorded additional interest expense of approximately $677,000 (in excess of
the initial coupon rate of 5.5%, 7.5% after April 1, 2005), net of the
$100,000 discount negotiated as part of the settlement, discussed below, to
increase the carrying value of the $7.5 Million Note to the payoff amount of
$8,168,000 at June 30, 2005, which is reflected as interest expense in the
consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

  Under its original terms, the $3.0 Million Note would
be reduced by half of any Protection Payment actually made pursuant to the $7.5
Million Note if both the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note are repaid
prior to March 31, 2006. We determined that the right to reduce the $3.0
Million Note by 50% of the Protection Payment made on the $7.5 Million Note if
both the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note were repaid in full
by March 31, 2006, represented a call option ( Refund Provision ) that is
an embedded derivative that met the criteria under SFAS No. 133 for
bifurcation and separate accounting treatment. The exercise price pursuant to
the call option under the $3.0 Million Note is equal to the principal amount of
the $3.0 Million Note less any refund we are entitled to under the Refund
Provision, based upon whether or not the $7.5 Million Note has been repaid and
the date of exercise. We concluded that the Refund Provision embedded in the
$3.0 Million Note is not clearly and closely related to the $3.0 Million Note because
the $3.0 Million Note could be settled in such a way that the holder of such
note would not recover substantially all of its investment. After reaching this
determination, we followed the guidance of DIG B-16, which concludes that
call options embedded in debt that are not considered clearly and closely
related to the debt itself are net settleable and thus require bifurcation.   

56     

Accordingly, the Refund
Provision was recorded at fair value at issuance date (September 30,
2004), and was subsequently marked to market through earnings. The fair value
of the Refund Provision embedded in the $3.0 Million Note was determined to be
de minimis and accordingly, no asset was recorded at September 30, 2004.
Based upon a fair market value analysis to an unrelated third party market
participant, the Refund Provision was valued at $500,000 at June 30, 2005
and was recorded as a current asset (call option) and a non-cash gain on the
change in the fair value of a call option. In making this determination,
consideration was given primarily to the fact that we had completed our
underwritten public offering of common stock on June 15, 2005, had raised
sufficient equity, after related expenses, to repay both the $7.5 Million Note
and the $3.0 Million Note prior to March 31, 2006, and reached an
agreement in principal with SSL (discussed below) to repay the notes. We
realized $500,000 with respect to the Refund Provision upon the repayment of
the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note in July 2005, which was
recorded as a reduction in interest expense in the consolidated statement of
operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, which was offset by the
reversal of the non-cash gain on the change in the fair value of the call
option previously recorded.  

  We incurred interest expense of approximately $959,000
(inclusive of approximately $677,000 of additional interest expense in excess
of the initial coupon rate of 5.5% (7.5% after April 1, 2005)) and $89,000
with respect to the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note, respectively,
for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

  In June 2005, we
reached a further settlement with SSL to repay the acquisition indebtedness
incurred and certain other obligations we have under the Silipos stock purchase
agreement. Additionally, we agreed to satisfy our obligations under the Silipos
stock purchase agreement to pay SSL Holdings, Inc. $1.0 million by March 31,
2006 if we did not acquire Poly-Gel by such date. In consideration of our
earlier than scheduled repayment of the $7.5 Million Note, the $3.0 Million
Note, the $1.0 million payment, SSL provided us with a $100,000 discount with
respect to the $7.5 Million Note and a $100,000 discount with respect to the
$1.0 million payment. The agreement was consummated and payment was made on July 15,
2005.  

     Seasonality   

  Revenue derived from our
sales of orthotic devices in North America has historically been significantly
higher in the warmer months of the year, while sales of orthotic devices by our
United Kingdom subsidiary have historically not evidenced any seasonality.
Other factors which can result in quarterly variations include the timing and
amount of new business generated by us, the timing of new product
introductions, our revenue mix, the timing of additional selling, general and
administrative expenses to support the anticipated growth and development of
new business units and the competitive and fluctuating economic conditions in
the orthopedic and skincare industries.  

     Inflation   

  We have in the past been
able to increase the prices of our products or reduce overhead costs
sufficiently to offset the effects of inflation on wages, materials and other
expenses, and anticipate that we will be able to continue to do so in the
future.  

     Recently
Issued Accounting Pronouncements   

  In November 2004, FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory
Costs.   SFAS No. 151 amends the
guidance in Chapter 4 of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43,  Inventory
Pricing,  to clarify the accounting for amounts of idle facility expense,
freight, handling costs and wasted material. SFAS No. 151 requires that
these types of items be recognized as current period charges as they occur. The
provisions of SFAS No. 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred
during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005.   

57     

We are currently still evaluating
the impact of adoption of SFAS No. 151 on our consolidated financial
statements. The adoption of this new accounting pronouncement is not expected
to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

  In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),
 Share-Based Payment,  revising SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  and superceding Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.  This statement focuses primarily on
accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in
share-based payment transactions. SFAS No. 123(R) requires that the
fair value of such equity instruments be recognized as expense in the
historical financial statements as services are performed. Prior to SFAS No. 123(R),
only certain pro-forma disclosures of fair value were required. As a result of
the Securities and Exchange Commission s April 2005 extension of the
compliance date for SFAS No. 123(R), SFAS No. 123(R) will be
effective for us as of the beginning of the 2006 fiscal year. The adoption of
this new accounting pronouncement is expected to have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements when we grant stock options and stock awards
in the future.  

  In May 2005, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,  which
changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in
accounting principle and error corrections. SFAS No. 154 applies to all
voluntary changes in accounting principle, as well as to changes required by an
accounting pronouncement that does not include specific transition provisions.
SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors
made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. Starting in 2006,
we will apply the provisions of SFAS No. 154 on a prospective basis when
applicable.  

58     

Unaudited Quarterly Financial Data   

  Set
forth below is certain unaudited quarterly financial data for each of the our
last eight quarters, and such data expressed as a percentage of our revenue for
the respective quarters. The information has been derived from unaudited
financial statements that, in the opinion of management, include all
adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to
fairly present such quarterly information in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The operating results for any quarter are not
necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future period.  

59     

(1)               Includes a full quarter of results of operations of
Silipos, which was acquired on September 30, 2004.  

  (2)               Included in the operating results for the quarter ended
December 31, 2005 were:  

  (a)              a provision for impairment of certain identifiable
intangible assets totalling $2,102,000; and  

  (b)              stock award and stock option compensation expense
totalling approximately $2,398,000, of which approximately $1,313,000 related
to the acceleration of vesting of certain stock options  and stock awards.   

60  

ITEM 7A.            QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

  The following discussion about our market risk
involves forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ
materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.  

  In general, business enterprises can be exposed to market risks,
including fluctuation in commodity and raw materials prices, foreign n currency
exchange rates, and interest rates that can adversely affect the cost and
results of operating, investing, and financing. In seeking to minimize the
risks and/or costs associated with such activities, the Company manages
exposure to changes in commodities and raw material prices, interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates through its regular operating and financing activities.
The Company does not utilize financial instruments for trading or other
speculative purposes, nor does the Company utilize leveraged financial
instruments or other derivatives. In the Silipos acquisition, the Company
acquired the Put Option (as defined in Item 7,  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  in the subsection
headed  Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 ),
and under the Silipos Purchase Agreement and the $7.5 Million Note, the Company
became obligated to make the Protection Payment (as defined in Item 7 in the
subsection headed  Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2004 and
2003 ). The Put Option expired unexercised in accordance with its terms in the
three months ended March 31, 2005. The Protection Payment was accounted
for under EITF No. 86-15. (see Notes 1(b), 2(c) and 7 of the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8 of this Annual Report).  

  The Company s exposure to market rate risk for changes
in interest rates relates primarily to the Company s short-term monetary
investments. There is a market rate risk for changes in interest rates earned
on short-term money market instruments. There is inherent rollover risk in the
short-term money market instruments as they mature and are renewed at current
market rates. The extent of this risk is not quantifiable or predictable
because of the variability of future interest rates and business financing
requirements. However, there is no risk of loss of principal in the short-term
money market instruments, only a risk related to a potential reduction in
future interest income. Derivative instruments are not presently used to adjust
the Company s interest rate risk profile.  

  The majority of the Company s business is denominated
in United States dollars. There are costs associated with the Company s
operations in foreign countries, primarily the United Kingdom and Canada, which
require payments in the local currency, and payments received from customers
for goods sold in these countries are typically in the local currency. The
Company partially manages its foreign currency risk related to those payments
by maintaining operating accounts in these foreign countries and by having
customers pay the Company in those same currencies.  

61  

ITEM 8.                    FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

     LANGER, INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Page   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

63  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

64  

Consolidated
  Financial Statements:   

Consolidated Balance Sheets   

65  

Consolidated Statements of Operations   

66  

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity   

67  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   

68  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

69  

62  

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Langer, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Deer Park, New York  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet of Langer, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31,
2005 and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders 
equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. We have also audited the
schedules for the year ended December 31, 2005 listed in the Index at Item
15. These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedules based on our audit.  

  We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements and schedules are free of
material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged
to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our
audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a
basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances,
but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no
such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and
schedules, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the
financial statements and schedules. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Langer, Inc. and Subsidiaries at December 31, 2005, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.  

  Also, in our opinion, the schedules present fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein for the year ended December 31,
2005.  

  (Signed BDO Seidman, LLP)  

  Melville, New York  

  March 21, 2006  

63  

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Langer, Inc. 
Deer Park, New York  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet of Langer, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31,
2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders 
equity, and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended
December 31, 2004. Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to
perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits
included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis
for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no
such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, such
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Langer, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,
2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
two years in the period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also
in our opinion, such financial statement schedule of Langer, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and for the two years in the period
ended December 31, 2004, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.  

  /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 
Jericho, New York 
March 17, 2005  

64  

LANGER, INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Balance Sheets   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.     65  

LANGER, INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Operations   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.     66  

LANGER, INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  

67   

LANGER, INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.     68  

LANGER, INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

     (1)   Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies   

   (a) Principles
of Consolidation   

  The accompanying
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Langer, Inc. and
its subsidiaries (the  Company  or  Langer ). All significant intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.  

   (b) Derivative
Financial Instruments   

  In the consolidated financial statements for the year
ended December 31, 2004, the Company accounted for its option to make a
cash payment of $500,000 on March 31, 2005, or increase the principal
amount of the Company s $7.5 million secured promissory note due March 31,
2006 (the  $7.5 Million Note ) by $1 million effective April 1, 2005
(either payment a  Protection Payment ) if the Company did not prepay the $7.5
Million Note by March 31, 2005, as an embedded derivative which required
bifurcation under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 133,
 Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities. 
Additionally, the Company accounted for the option embedded in its $3.0 million
promissory note due December 31, 2009 (the  $3.0 Million Note ) to receive
a payment equal to one half of the actual Protection Payment made under the
$7.5 Million Note if the $3.0 Million Note is prepaid by March 31,
2006, as an embedded derivative which requires bifurcation under SFAS No. 133.
For the year ended December 31, 2004, the embedded derivative instruments
in the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note were recorded at their fair
value using the discounted cash flow method.  

  During the three months ended March 31, 2005, the
Company determined that it should have accounted for the $7.5 Million Note as
increasing-rate debt with a term-extending option under the provisions of
Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Issue No. 86-15,  Increasing-Rate
Debt.  Additionally, the Company determined that it should have accounted for
the $3.0 Million Note as debt with an embedded call option, which requires
bifurcation under SFAS No. 133. The embedded derivative instrument in the
$3.0 Million Note should have been recorded at its fair value to an unrelated
third party market participant. The Company has determined that the change in
accounting treatment did not have a material impact on its financial position
or results of operations as of or for the year ended December 31, 2004, or
its results of operations as of or for the three months ended March 31,
2005 and, accordingly, this change has been reflected in its consolidated
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. Note 7,  Long-Term
Debt  to the consolidated financial statements further describes the Company s
current accounting with respect to the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million
Note. The notes were repaid in July 2005, and there are no derivatives as
of December 31, 2005.  

  In accordance with SFAS No. 133,
 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  as amended, the
Company recognizes all derivative financial instruments in the consolidated
financial statements at fair value regardless of the purpose or intent for
holding the instrument. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial
instruments are either recognized periodically in income or in stockholders 
equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
depending on whether the derivative financial instrument qualifies for hedge
accounting or, if so, whether it qualifies as a fair value or cash flow hedge.
Generally, the changes in the fair value of derivatives accounted for as fair
value hedges are recorded in income along with the portions of the changes in
the fair value of the hedged item that relate to the hedged risks. Changes in
the fair value of derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges, to the   

69     

extent
they are effective as hedges, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss), net of deferred taxes. Changes in fair values of derivatives not
qualifying as hedges are reported in income.  

   (c) Description
of the Business   

  The Company is an
orthopedics products company specializing in the designing, manufacturing,
distributing and marketing of high quality foot and gait-related biomechanical
products. The Company s diversified range of products is comprised of (i) custom
orthotic devices ordered by healthcare professionals, and (ii) pre-fabricated
orthopedic rehabilitation and recovery devices and related devices distributed
by the Company to healthcare professionals for use by their patients. On September 30,
2004, the Company acquired Silipos, Inc. and subsidiary, a designer
manufacturer and distributor of gel-based products that target orthopedics
(including prosthetics) and skincare (see Note 2 (c),  Acquisition of
Silipos  and Note 11).  

   (d) Revenue Recognition   

  Revenue from the sale of
the Company s products is recognized upon shipment. The Company generally does
not have any post-shipment obligations to customers other than for product
warranties. The Company generally warrants its products against defects in
materials and workmanship for a period of 6 months. The Company records a
provision for estimated future costs associated with its warranties of
fabricated products/custom orthotics as warranty reserves upon shipment, based
upon historical experience. The Company offers extended warranty contracts
which are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized over the lives of the
contracts (24 months) on a straight-line basis. Revenue from shipping and
handling fees is included in net sales in the consolidated statements of
operations. Costs incurred for shipping and handling are included in cost of
sales in the consolidated statements of operations.  

   (e) Advertising
and Promotion Expenses   

  Advertising and promotion costs are expensed as
incurred. Advertising and promotion expenses were approximately $1,098,000,
$553,000 and $326,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.  

  The Company accounts for
sales and incentives which include discounts, coupons, co-operative advertising
and free products or services in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force
Issue No. 01-09,    Accounting for
Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer .   Generally, cash
consideration is to be classified as a reduction of net sales, unless specific
criteria are met regarding goods or services that a vendor may receive in
return for this consideration. The Company s consideration given to customers
does not meet these conditions and, accordingly is classified as a reduction to
revenue.  

   (f) Cash
Equivalents   

  The Company considers all
short-term, highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity of three months
or less to be cash equivalents consisting primarily of money market funds.  

   (g) Inventories   

  Inventories are stated at
the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out
(FIFO) method.  

70     

(h) Property
and Equipment   

  Property
and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.
Depreciation and amortization are calculated using the straight-line method.
The lives on which depreciation and amortization are computed are as follows:  

Building and
  improvements  

20 years  

Office furniture
  and equipment  

3-10 years  

Computer
  equipment and software  

3-10 years  

Machinery and
  equipment  

5-15 years  

Leasehold
  improvements  

5-10 years
  or term of lease if shorter  

Automobiles  

3-5 years  

The Company reviews
long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not
be recoverable. If the sum of expected future cash flows (undiscounted and
without interest charges) is less than the carrying value of the asset, an
impairment loss is recognized. Otherwise, an impairment loss is not recognized.
If an impairment loss is required, the amount of such loss is equal to the
excess of the carrying value of the impaired asset over its fair value. Based
upon the Company s review of long-lived assets pursuant to SFAS No. 144,  Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,  the Company recorded a
provision for impairment of $502,000 in the year ended December 31, 2005. The
provision was determined based upon expected undiscounted cash flow and
recoverability.  

   (i) Goodwill
and Identifiable Intangible Assets with Indefinite Lives   

  In accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  the
Company no longer amortizes goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with
indefinite lives (trade names). Instead these assets are reviewed for
impairment on an annual basis (October 1). Based upon the review of
impairment, the Company recorded a provision for impairment of $1,600,000 with
respect to the Benefoot trademark because the fair value of the trademark was
de minimus based upon management s determination that it will no longer rely on
or use such trademark in the marketplace.  

   (j) Income
Taxes   

  The Company accounts for
income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income
Taxes.  Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined
based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be
in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.  

   (k) Net Income
(Loss) Per Share   

  Basic income (loss) per
share is based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding during the period. Diluted income (loss) per share is based on the
weighted average number of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents
(options, warrants, stock awards and convertible subordinated notes)
outstanding during the period, except where the effect would be antidilutive.  

   (l) Foreign Currency
Translation   

  Assets and liabilities of
the foreign subsidiaries that are denominated in local currencies have been
translated at year-end exchange rates, while revenues and expenses have been
translated at average exchange rates in effect during the year. Resulting
cumulative translation adjustments have been recorded as a separate component
of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders  equity.  

71     

(m) Use of
Estimates   

  The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  

   (n) Fair Value
of Financial Instruments   

  At December 31, 2005
and 2004, the carrying amount of the Company s financial instruments, including
cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued
liabilities, approximated fair value because of their short-term maturity. The
carrying value of long-term debt at December 31, 2005 and 2004 also approximated
fair value based on borrowing rates currently available to the Company for debt
with similar terms.  

   (o) Internal
Use Software   

  In accordance with
Statement of Position 98-1,  Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use , the Company capitalizes
internal-use software costs upon the completion of the preliminary project
stage and ceases capitalization when the software project is substantially
complete and ready for its intended use. Capitalized costs are amortized on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the software.  

   (p) Stock
Options   

  At December 31,
2005, the Company had three stock-based employee compensation plans,
which are described more fully in Note 10. The Company accounts for those
plans under the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles
Board Opinion ( APB ) No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, 
and related Interpretations. No stock-based employee compensation cost is
reflected in net income (loss), as all options granted under those plans had an
exercise price equal to market value of the underlying common stock on the date
of grant. The following table illustrates the effect on net (loss) income and
(loss) earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,  to stock-based employee compensation.  

72     

On September 8, 2005,
the Company determined not to extend Andrew H. Meyer s employment
contract, and in accordance with its terms, the contract expired
December 31, 2005 (except for certain covenants by Mr. Meyers in
favor of the Company). In accordance with a modification of the employment
contract on November 12, 2004, which extended his right to exercise
175,000 vested options from 90 days to one year beyond termination, the Company
recorded a non-cash charge equal to the intrinsic value of the options on the
date the option agreement was modified, or approximately $1,046,000 at
December 31, 2005.     Additionally,
the Company issued certain stock options for consulting services. In connection
with such options, the Company recorded non-cash compensation expense totalling
$1,257,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005, which includes the
effect of accelerating the vesting of certain stock options (see Note 15,  Related
Party Transactions ).  

     (q) Concentration of Credit Risk   

  Financial instruments which potentially expose the
Company to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash investments
and accounts receivable. The Company places its cash investments with
high-credit quality financial institutions and currently invests primarily in
money market accounts. Accounts receivable are generally diversified due to the
number of healthcare professionals comprising the Company s customer base. As
of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company s allowance for doubtful
accounts was approximately $430,000 and $380,000. The Company believes no
significant concentration of credit risk exists with respect to these cash
investments and accounts receivable. The carrying amounts of these financial
instruments are reasonable estimates of their fair value.  

   (r) Recently Issued
Accounting Pronouncements   

  In November 2004,
FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs.  SFAS No. 151 amends the
guidance in Chapter 4 of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43,  Inventory
Pricing,  to clarify the accounting for amounts of idle facility expense,
freight, handling costs and wasted material. SFAS No. 151 requires that
these types of items be recognized as current period charges as they occur. The
provisions of SFAS No. 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred
during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company is
currently still evaluating the impact of adoption of SFAS No. 151 on its
consolidated financial statements. The adoption of this new accounting
pronouncement is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated
financial statements.  

  In December 2004,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  revising SFAS No. 123
and superceding APB No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. 
This statement focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an
entity obtains employee services in share-based payment transactions. SFAS No. 123(R) requires
that the fair value of such equity instruments be recognized as expense in the
historical financial statements as services are performed. Prior to SFAS No. 123(R),
only certain pro-forma disclosures of fair value were required. As a result of
the Securities and Exchange Commission s April 2005 extension of the
compliance date for SFAS No. 123(R), SFAS No. 123(R) will be
effective for us as of the beginning of the 2006 fiscal year. On
December 20, 2005, in order to lessen the impact in future periods, the
Company accelerated the vesting of certain stock options and awards (see
Note 10). The adoption of this new accounting pronouncement is expected to
have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements when we grant
stock options and stock awards in the future.  

  In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,  Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections,  which changes the requirements for the
accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle and error
corrections. SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting
principle, as well as to changes required by an accounting pronouncement that
does not include specific transition provisions. SFAS No. 154 is effective
for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2005. Starting in 2006, we will apply the provisions of
SFAS No. 154 on a prospective basis when applicable.  

73     

(2)      Acquisitions 

   (a)   Bi-Op Laboratories, Inc.     

  Effective
January 1, 2003, the Company, through a wholly-owned subsidiary,
acquired all of the issued and outstanding stock of Bi-Op Laboratories, Inc.
( Bi-Op ) pursuant to the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of January 13,
2003 (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ). Bi-Op was purchased principally to
expand Langer s global presence and to take over fabrication of certain custom
orthotics for Canadian customers of Langer. The purchase price for Bi-Op was
determined by arms -length negotiations between the Company and the
seller and was based in part upon analyses and due diligence which the Company
performed on the financial records of Bi-Op, focusing on enterprise value,
historic cash flows and expected future cash flow to determine valuation. The
results of operations of Bi-Op have been included in the Company s consolidated
financial statements since January 1, 2003.  

  In
connection with the acquisition, the Company paid consideration in Canadian
dollars, determined through arms-length negotiation of the parties. When
converted to U.S. dollars the total purchase price approximated
$2.2 million, of which approximately $1.8 million (including
$0.5 million for transaction costs) was paid in cash and approximately
$0.4 million was paid by issuing 107,611 shares of the Company s common
stock (the  Shares ). The purchase price was funded by using a portion of the
proceeds remaining from the sale of the Company s 4% convertible subordinated
notes due August 31, 2006 (the  Convertible Notes ). The Shares were
valued based upon the average of the market price of the Company s common stock
two days before, two days after, and on the date the acquisition was announced.  

74  

In connection with the Stock Purchase Agreement, the
Company entered into an employment agreement with Raynald Henry, Bi-Op s former
principal owner, having a term of three years and providing for an annual base
salary of $75,000 CDN and benefits, including certain severance payments. In December 2005,
Mr. Henry agreed to a two year extension of his contract which now expires
at the end of December 2007. The allocation of the purchase price among
the assets and liabilities was based upon the Company s valuation of the fair
value of assets and liabilities of Bi-Op.  

  The
following table sets forth the components of the purchase price:  

The
following table provides the allocation of the purchase price:  

The
value allocated to goodwill in the purchase of Bi-Op is not deductible for
income tax purposes.  

   (b)   Benefoot, Inc. and Benefoot Professional Products, Inc.     

  On May 6, 2002, the Company, through a wholly-owned
subsidiary, acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of each of
Benefoot, Inc. and Benefoot Professional Products, Inc. (collectively,
 Benefoot ), pursuant to the terms of an asset purchase agreement (the  Asset
Purchase Agreement ). The assets acquired include machinery and equipment,
other fixed assets, inventory, receivables, contract rights, and intangible
assets. Benefoot was acquired to strengthen the Company s core business of
custom orthotics and provide it with new products (distributed products),
including therapeutic shoes and custom sandals, thereby broadening the product
selection for customers. The purchase price for Benefoot was determined by arms -length
negotiations between the Company and the seller and was based in part upon
analyses and due diligence which the Company performed on the financial records
of Benefoot, focusing on enterprise value, historic cash flows and expected
future cash flow to determine valuation.  

75     

In connection with the acquisition, the Company paid
consideration of $6.1 million, of which $3.8 million was paid in
cash, $1.8 million was paid through the issuance of 4% promissory notes
(the  Promissory Notes ) and $0.5 million was paid by issuing 61,805
shares of common stock (the  Shares ), together with certain registration
rights. The Shares were valued based upon the average of the market price of
the Company s common stock two days before, two days after and on the date the
acquisition was announced. $1.0 million of the Promissory Notes were
repaid on May 6, 2003 and the balance of $0.8 million, plus interest
was repaid on May 6, 2004. The Company also assumed certain liabilities of
Benefoot, including approximately $0.3 million of long-term indebtedness
which was paid at closing. The Company also agreed to pay Benefoot up to an
additional $1 million ( Performance-based Consideration ) upon
achievement of certain performance targets on or prior to May 6, 2004
measured at various intervals. During the year ended December 31, 2004,
the Company recorded $163,952 of such Performance-based Consideration as
additional goodwill. As of May 6, 2004, the final measurement date for
such performance targets, the Company had incurred a total of $767,190 with
respect to such Performance-based Consideration. Such amount was recorded
as an adjustment to the purchase price as it was not related to the employment
of the selling shareholders and was based solely on the achievement of certain
performance targets. The Company funded the entire cash portion of the purchase
price with proceeds from the prior sale of the Company s Convertible Notes.  

  In connection with the Asset Purchase Agreement, the
Company entered into an employment agreement with each of two shareholders of
Benefoot, each having a term of two years and providing for an annual base
salary of $150,000 and benefits, including certain severance arrangements. One
of these shareholders subsequently terminated his employment agreement with the
Company and the second contract expired in the second quarter of 2004. The
allocation of the purchase price among the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed is based on the Company s valuation of the fair value of the assets and
liabilities of Benefoot.  

  The
following table sets forth the components of the purchase price:  

76  

The
following table provides the allocation of the purchase price:  

In accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 142, the Company will not amortize goodwill and
intangible assets with indefinite lives (trade names with an estimated fair
value of $1,600,000). As a result of the Company s review of goodwill and
long-lived assets with indefinite lives in accordance with SFAS No. 142,
the Company provided an allowance for impairment of $1,600,000 with respect to the
Benefoot trademark in the statement of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2005 because the fair value of the trademark was de minimus
based upon management s determination that it will no longer rely on or use the
trademark in the marketplace. The value allocated to goodwill in the purchase
of Benefoot is deductible for income tax purposes.  

   (c)       Acquisition of Silipos.   

  On September 30,
2004, the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of Silipos, Inc.
( Silipos ) from SSL International plc ( SSL ). Silipos is a manufacturer of
gel-based products for the orthopedic, prosthetic and skincare markets, and
operates out of a 40,000 square-foot manufacturing facility in Niagara Falls,
New York, and a sales and marketing office in New York City. Silipos was
acquired because of its distribution channels and its proprietary products. The
purchase price for Silipos was determined by arm s-length negotiations
between the Company and SSL and was based in part upon analyses and due
diligence, which the Company performed on the financial records of Silipos,
focusing on enterprise value, historic cash flows and expected future cash flow
to determine valuation. The results of operations of Silipos since
September 30, 2004 (the date of acquisition) have been included in the
Company s consolidated financial statements.  

  The original purchase
price paid was $15.5 million, plus transaction costs of approximately
$2.0 million (including $0.9 million with respect to contingent
consideration pursuant to an obligation under the Silipos stock purchase
agreement described below), and was comprised of $5.0 million of cash paid at
closing, the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note. (See Note 5,  Long
Term Debt,  for a description of the notes). On March 31, 2005, the
Company entered into a settlement agreement and limited release with SSL,
pursuant to which the purchase price for Silipos was reduced by approximately
$0.2 million. (See Note 5,  Long-term Debt  for the description of the
Settlement Agreement).  

77     

Silipos was a party to a supply agreement with
Poly-Gel, L.L.C. ( Poly-Gel ), Silipos  former supplier of mineral based gels,
under which the owners of Poly-Gel had the option to require Silipos to
purchase Poly-Gel at a purchase price equal to 1.5 times Poly-Gel s revenue for
the twelve month period ending immediately prior to the exercise of the option
(the  Put Option ). The fair value of the obligation under the Put Option was
$2,355,000 at September 30, 2004. The fair value of the obligation under
the Put Option was $1,750,000 at December 31, 2004. The Company recorded
the reduction in the fair value of the obligation under the Put Option of
$605,000 as a non-cash gain on change in the fair value of the Put Option in
the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31,
2004. The Put Option expired unexercised on February 16, 2005, and the
Company did not otherwise acquire Poly-Gel. The Company recorded the expiration
of the Put Option as an additional non-cash gain of $1,750,000 during the three
months ended March 31, 2005.  

  The Silipos purchase agreement provides that if the
Company acquires Poly-Gel prior to March 31, 2006, for less than
$4,500,000, and liabilities and damages relating to claims brought by Poly-Gel
arising out of the supply agreement between Silipos and Poly-Gel dated
August 20, 1999, the manufacture, marketing or sale of products made from
gel not purchased from Poly-Gel, alleged misappropriation of trade secrets or
other confidential information (including gel formulation) of Poly-Gel, as well
as any other alleged violations of the supply agreement (the  Potential
Poly-Gel Claims ), do not exceed $2,000,000, the Company is obligated, pursuant
to the terms of the Silipos purchase agreement, to pay SSL an additional amount
of $4,500,000 less the purchase price paid for Poly-Gel, which could result in
a payment to SSL of up to $4.5 million. The Company s aggregate liability under
this provision of the Silipos purchase agreement could be as high as $4.5
million.  

  If the Company does not acquire Poly-Gel prior to March 31,
2006, and the amount of any liabilities for Potential Poly-Gel Claims, as
defined in the Silipos purchase agreement, do not exceed $2,500,000, then the
Company was obligated, under the Silipos purchase agreement, to pay SSL
$1,000,000, plus an amount not to exceed $500,000, for certain costs, if
incurred by SSL, in defense of any such Potential Poly-Gel Claims.  

  In June 2005, the Company reached an agreement
with SSL to repay the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note and to settle
the $1.0 million obligation under the Silipos stock purchase agreement. In
consideration for making these payments, SSL provided the Company with a
$100,000 discount with respect to the $7.5 Million Note and $100,000 discount
with respect to the $1.0 million payment. The payments were made on July 15,
2005. The Company recorded the $900,000 obligation under the Silipos stock
purchase agreement as contingent consideration at June 30, 2005, under
SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations,  as additional goodwill and will
record any amount due as payment for costs incurred by SSL up to $500,000 in
the consolidated statement of operations when incurred. Additionally, the
Company recorded approximately $292,000 as transaction expenses associated with
a possible acquisition of Poly-Gel that was abandoned, which was included in
general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations
for the year ended December 31, 2004.  

  Allocation of Silipos  purchase price among the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed is based on the Company s evaluation of the
fair value of the assets and liabilities of Silipos.  

  The
following table sets forth the components of the purchase price:  

78     

(1)             On March 31, 2005,
the Company entered into a settlement agreement and limited release among the
parties to the Silipos purchase agreement. Under the terms of the settlement
agreement, the parties exchanged mutual releases and agreed to a $232,000 reduction
in the purchase price previously paid by the Company to SSL because Silipos did
not satisfy certain minimum working capital requirements as of the closing date
of the acquisition pursuant to the Silipos purchase agreement. The reduction to
the purchase price was satisfied by decreasing the principal amount of the $7.5
Million Note, which was originally due on March 31, 2006, and is reflected
above. (See Note 7,  Long-term Debt,  for discussion of the $7.5 Million Note.) 

  (2)             This amount includes
$900,000 paid to SSL pursuant to the Silipos stock purchase agreement. 

  The
following table provides the final allocation of the purchase price based upon
the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at September 30,
2004 based upon a third-party appraisal:  

In accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 142, the Company will not amortize goodwill and
intangible assets with indefinite lives. The value allocated to goodwill in the
purchase of Silipos is not deductible for income tax purposes.  

  Summary
unaudited pro forma condensed results of operations for the year ended December 31,
2004 and 2003, assuming the Silipos acquisition had occurred at the beginning
of the earliest period presented are as follows:  

These pro forma results
are not necessarily indicative of what would have occurred if the acquisition
had been in effect for the period presented, and they may not be indicative of
results expected in the future.  

79  

(d) Identifiable Intangible
Assets   

  Identifiable
intangible assets at December 31, 2005 consisted of:  

(1)             As
a result of the Company s review of goodwill and long-lived assets with
indefinite lives in accordance with SFAS No. 142, the Company provided an
allowance for impairment of $1,600,000 with respect to certain of the
identifiable intangible assets. Additionally, based upon its SFAS No. 144 analysis,
the Company recorded a provision of impairment of $502,000 with respect to
certain of the identifiable intangible assets with definitive lives, as it was
determined, based upon the review of estimated related cashflows, that the
carrying value of certain of the identifiable intangible assets with indefinite
lives exceeded the fair value. Further, based upon the analysis as of
October 1, 2005, it was determined that the estimated useful lives of
certain of the identifiable intangible assets with definite lives needed to be
reduced, and the Company prospectively reduced the estimated useful lives of
certain identifiable intangible assets for Non-competition agreements Benefoot/Bi-Op
from 7 to 8 years to 4 years, License agreements and related technology Benefoot
from 11 years to 5 to 8 years and Repeat customer base Bi-Op from 20 years
to 7 years. 

  Identifiable
intangible assets at December 31, 2004 consisted of:  

Aggregate amortization expense relating to the above
identifiable intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003, was $636,883, $349,207, and $253,308, respectively. As of December 31,
2005, the estimated future amortization expense is approximately $643,000 per
annum for 2006 - 2008, and $623,000 for 2009, approximately $540,000
for 2010 and approximately $823,000 thereafter. The effect of the change in
estimated useful lives for certain of the identifiable intangible assets is to
increase amortization by approximately $84,000 per year in 2006 to 2008 and
approximately $74,000 in 2009, and to reduce amortization by approximately $4,000
in 2010, approximately $23,000 in 2011, approximately $39,000 in 2012,
approximately $35,000 in 2013 and approximately $25,000 per year in 2014 to
2022.  

80  

(e)   Goodwill   

  Changes
in goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 are as
follows:  

(3)   Inventories,
net   

  Inventories,
net, consisted of the following:   

(4)   Property and Equipment, net   

  Property and equipment, net, is comprised of the
following:   

Depreciation and
amortization expense relating to property and equipment was $1,010,797,
$604,015 and $397,901 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.  

81  

(5)   Other
Current Liabilities   

  Other
current liabilities consisted of the following:   

The
following is a summary of the activity related to the Company s warranty
reserve:  

(6)       Public Offering 

  On June 15, 2005, the
Company closed upon an underwritten public offering of common stock, resulting
in a sale of 5,000,000 shares of common stock at $6.50 per share or $32,500,000
of gross proceeds. On July 13, 2005, the underwriters exercised a portion
of their overallotment option and purchased an additional 226,989 shares of
common stock at $6.50 per share resulting in gross proceeds of $1,475,429. The
Company used a portion of the net proceeds totalling $5,675,389 to repay the
$5,500,000 principal amount of 7% senior subordinated notes due
September 30, 2007 (the  Subordinated Notes ), plus accrued interest of
$175,389 on June 15, 2005. In July 2005, the Company used $11,891,000
of the proceeds to repay the $7.5 Million Note, the $3.0 Million Note, plus
related accrued interest (including the portion attributable to increasing-rate
debt) of approximately $591,000, and the obligation under the Silipos stock
purchase agreement of $900,000. The Company incurred underwriting discounts and
offering expenses totalling $4,673,686 in connection with the sale of the
aggregate 5,226,989 shares.  

     (7)       Long-term Debt 

  On October 31, 2001, the Company completed the
sale of $14,589,000 principal amount of its 4% convertible subordinated notes
due August 31, 2006 (the  Convertible Notes ), in a private placement.
Langer Partners, LLC ( Langer Partners ), whose sole manager and voting member
is Warren B. Kanders, the Company s Chairman of the Board of Directors since
November 12, 2004, holds $2,500,000 principal amount of these Convertible
Notes. The Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of the Company s
common stock at a conversion price of $6.00 per share (equal to the market
value of the Company s stock on October 31, 2001), subject to
anti-dilution protections in the event that, among other things, the Company
issues common stock or equity securities convertible into or exchangeable for
common stock at a   

82     

price below the conversion
price of the Convertible Notes, and are subordinated to existing or future
senior indebtedness of the Company. Among other provisions, the Company may, at
its option, call, prepay, redeem, repurchase, convert or otherwise acquire
(collectively,  Call ) the Convertible Notes, in whole or in part after
August 31, 2003. If the Company elects to Call any of the Convertible
Notes, the holders of the Convertible Notes may elect to convert the
Convertible Notes into the Company s common stock. On June 20, 2005,
$150,000 of the Convertible Notes were converted into 25,000 shares of common
stock in accordance with their terms. Interest is payable semi-annually on the
last day of June and December. Interest expense on the Convertible Notes
for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $580,377 and
$583,560, and $583,560, respectively.  

  The Company received net proceeds of $13,668,067 from
the offering of the Convertible Notes. The cost of raising these proceeds was
$920,933, which is being amortized over the life of the Convertible Notes. The
amortization of these costs for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003 were $192,715, $193,772 and $193,772, respectively, and were included
in interest expense in the related consolidated statements of operations.  

  The Company issued $1,800,000 in promissory notes in
connection with the acquisition of Benefoot. $1,000,000 of the notes were
repaid on May 6, 2003 and the balance was repaid on May 6, 2004.
Related interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003
were $11,111 and $45,932, respectively.  

  On September 30, 2004, the Company completed the
acquisition of all of the outstanding stock of Silipos (see Note 2 (c)  Acquisition
of Silipos ). In connection with the acquisition of Silipos, the Company issued:  

  (i)               the Subordinated Notes
in the principal amount of $5,500,000 to ten accredited investors; 

  (ii)           the $7.5 Million Note, as
previously defined; and 

  (iii)       the $3.0 Million Note, as
previously defined. 

  The Subordinated Notes were issued to fund the cash
portion of the purchase price for Silipos. Langer Partners, held $750,000
principal amount of these Subordinated Notes. As part of such issuance, the
Company also issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 110,000 shares of the
Company s common stock at an exercise price of $0.02 per share, subject to
adjustments under certain circumstances, which warrants are exercisable until September 30,
2009, commencing on September 30, 2005. The fair value of the warrants at September 30,
2004 was determined to be $735,900, using the Black-Scholes pricing model and
the following assumptions: risk free interest rate of 2.89%, dividend of 0%,
volatility of 83%, and an expected life of three years and was recorded as debt
discount. Such amount was originally being amortized over the term of the
Subordinated Notes, and recorded as an additional interest expense.
Additionally, the Company issued 10,000 warrants, under the same terms as
described above, to an unaffiliated third party for placing the Subordinated Notes,
which warrants have a fair value of $75,800, using the Black-Scholes pricing
model and the same assumptions used to value the other warrants. In the year
ended December 31, 2005, the Company recognized amortization expense of
$106,386 and $12,252 with respect to the debt discount (warrants) and debt
placement fees, respectively, which was included in interest expense in the
consolidated statement of operations, all of which was recognized in the six
months ended June 30, 2005. There were no such amounts in the prior year
periods. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2005, the
Company incurred interest expense of $175,389 with respect to the
Subordinated Notes, all of which was recorded as of June 30, 2005. The
Company repaid the Subordinated Notes plus accrued interest, which totalled
$5,675,389, on June 15, 2005, with a portion of the net proceeds from its
public offering of common stock (see Note 6,  Public Offering ). Accordingly,
as of June 30, 2005, the Company recognized $572,116 with respect to the
unamortized debt discount (fair value of the warrants) and the unamortized debt
placement fees of $57,973, which is included in interest expense on the
consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

83     

The $7.5 Million Note was secured by the pledge of the
stock of Silipos and was subject to increase pursuant to a Protection Payment
as defined in Note 1 (b). Both the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note
provided for semi-annual payments of interest at the rate of 5.5% per annum
with the first payments due and paid February 1, 2005. The interest rate
on the $7.5 Million Note increased from 5.5% to 7.5% on April 1, 2005. The
Company recorded the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note at their face
value, which represented the fair value of the notes on their date of issuance
(September 30, 2004). The Company adjusted the carrying value of the $7.5
Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note to $7.986 million and
$2.737 million, respectively, at December 31, 2004, and further
adjusted the carrying value of the notes as of January 1, 2005 to $7.723
million and $3.0 million, respectively, upon the Company s determination to
follow EITF No. 86-15 with respect to the $7.5 Million Note (see
Note 1 (b)). On March 31, 2005, the Company entered into a settlement
agreement (the  Settlement Agreement ) and limited release among the parties to
the Silipos purchase agreement. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement,
the parties exchanged mutual releases and agreed to a $232,000 reduction in the
purchase price previously paid by the Company to SSL because Silipos did not
satisfy certain minimum working capital requirements as of the closing date of
the acquisition pursuant to the Silipos purchase agreement. The reduction to
the purchase price was satisfied by amending and restating the $7.5 Million
Note, which was originally due on March 31, 2006 to reflect the reduction
in the purchase price of $232,000. In addition, the $7.5 Million Note was
amended and restated to reflect the Company s election on March 15, 2005,
in accordance with its terms, to increase the principal amount effective, April 1,
2005, by the $1,000,000 Protection Payment rather than to make an additional
cash payment of $500,000 by March 31, 2005. As amended and restated and
effective as of April 1, 2005, the face value of the $7.5 Million Note was
$8,268,000. Additionally, under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the
parties also agreed to amend and restate the $3.0 Million Note, which was
originally due on December 31, 2009. The $3.0 Million Note was amended and
restated to provide that the $3.0 Million Note was to be reduced by
$500,000 if the $7.5 Million Note was repaid in full on or before May 31,
2005, and would be further reduced by an additional $500,000 if both the $3.0
Million Note and the $7.5 Million Note have been repaid in full on or before March 31,
2006. The Company determined that the Protection Payment represented a
term-extending option that did not meet the criteria for bifurcation under SFAS
No. 133 in that there is no provision for net settlement. The Company
followed the guidance of EITF No. 86-15, which addresses the
calculation of interest cost on increasing-rate debt and requires that interest
costs should be determined using the interest method based on the estimated
outstanding term of the debt (12 months from issuance). Accordingly, the
Company recorded additional interest expense of approximately $677,000 (in
excess of the initial coupon rate of 5.5%, 7.5% after April 1, 2005), net
of the $100,000 discount negotiated as part of the settlement discussed below,
to increase the carrying value of the $7.5 Million Note to the payoff amount of
$8,168,000 at June 30, 2005, which is reflected as interest expense in the
consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

  Under its original terms, the $3.0 Million Note would
be reduced by half of any Protection Payment actually made pursuant to the $7.5
Million Note if both the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note are repaid
prior to March 31, 2006. The Company determined that the right to reduce
the $3.0 Million Note by 50% of the Protection Payment made on the $7.5 Million
Note if both the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note were repaid in
full by March 31, 2006, represented a call option ( Refund Provision )
that is an embedded derivative that met the criteria under SFAS No. 133
for bifurcation and separate accounting treatment. The exercise price pursuant
to the call option under the $3.0 Million Note is equal to the principal amount
of the $3.0 Million Note less any refund the Company is entitled to under the
Refund Provision, based upon whether or not the $7.5 Million Note has been
repaid and the date of exercise. The Company concluded that the Refund Provision
embedded in the $3.0 Million Note is not clearly and closely related to the
$3.0 Million Note because the $3.0 Million Note could be settled in such a way
that the holder of such note would not recover substantially all of its
investment. After reaching this determination, the Company followed the
guidance of DIG B-16, which concludes that call options embedded in debt
that are not considered clearly and closely related to the debt itself are net
settleable   

84     

and thus require
bifurcation. Accordingly, the Refund Provision was recorded at fair value at
issuance date (September 30, 2004), and was subsequently marked to market
through earnings. The fair value of the Refund Provision embedded in the $3.0
Million Note was determined to be de minimis and accordingly, no asset was
recorded at September 30, 2004. Based upon a fair market value analysis to
an unrelated third party market participant, the Refund Provision was valued at
$500,000 at June 30, 2005 and was recorded as a current asset (call
option) and a non-cash gain on the change in the fair value of a call option.
In making this determination, consideration was given primarily to the fact
that the Company had completed its underwritten public offering of common stock
on June 15, 2005, had raised sufficient equity, after related expenses, to
repay both the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note prior to March 31,
2006, and reached an agreement in principal with SSL (discussed below) to repay
the notes. The Company realized $500,000 with respect to the Refund Provision
upon the repayment of the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0 Million Note in July 2005,
which was recorded as a reduction in interest expense in the consolidated
statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30,
2005, which was offset by the reversal of the non-cash gain on the change in
the fair value of the call option previously recorded.  

  The Company incurred interest expense of approximately
$959,000 (inclusive of approximately $677,000 of additional interest expense in
excess of the initial coupon rate of 5.5% (7.5% after April 1, 2005)) and
approximately $89,000 with respect to the $7.5 Million Note and the $3.0
Million Note, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

  In June 2005, the Company reached a further
settlement with SSL to repay the acquisition indebtedness incurred and certain
other obligations due under the Silipos stock purchase agreement. Additionally,
the Company agreed to satisfy its obligations under the Silipos stock purchase
agreement to pay SSL Holdings, Inc. $1.0 million by March 31, 2006 if
the Company did not acquire Poly-Gel by such date. In consideration of the
Company s earlier than scheduled repayment of the $7.5 Million Note, the $3.0
Million Note, and the $1.0 million payment, SSL provided the Company with a
$100,000 discount with respect to the $7.5 Million Note and a $100,000 discount
with respect to the $1.0 million payment. The agreement was consummated and
payment was made on July 15, 2005.  

  Pursuant to the acquisition of Silipos, the Company is
obligated under a capital lease covering the land and building at the Silipos
facility in Niagara Falls, N.Y. that expires in 2018. This lease also contains
two five-year renewal options. As of December 31, 2005, the Company s
obligation under capital lease, excluding current installments, is $2,700,000.  

  Annual
future minimum capital lease payments are as follows:  

Additionally, the Company has accrued interest of
$560,178 and $518,125 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, with
respect to the capital lease which is included in other current liabilities at
the respective balance sheet dates.  

85  

At
December 31, 2005 and 2004, the gross amount of land and building and
related accumulated depreciation recorded under the capital lease was as
follows:   

(8)       Commitments and
Contingencies 

     (a) Leases   

  Certain of the Company s facilities and equipment are
leased under noncancelable operating leases. Rental expense amounted to
$753,553, $580,895, and $519,094 for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.  

  Future
minimum rental payments required under current operating leases are:  

On December 19, 2005,
we entered into a lease (as tenant) with 41 Madison, L.P. (the  Landlord ) of
certain space, for use as sales, marketing and executive offices. The lease
will run for 10 years, 8 months, commencing upon the completion of the
build-out of the space at the Landlord s expense (up to $607,000, with the
Company responsible for the excess build-out cost, if any). The Company has a
one-time right to renew the lease for a term of 5 years at a base rent equal to
the fair market value of the space at the time of renewal. The Company also has
a one-time right to terminate the lease as of the end of the 88  th  month, upon 12 months prior notice to the
Landlord. The Company began recording rent expense on a straight line basis
commencing in December 2005 in accordance with FASB Staff Position SFAS No. 13-1,
 Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred during a Construction Period.  

   (b) Royalties   

  The Company has entered
into several agreements with licensors, consultants and suppliers, which
require the Company to pay royalty fees relating to the sale of certain
products. Royalties in the aggregate under these agreements totaled $506,360,
$323,715, and $57,680 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.  

   (c) Letter of
Credit   

  In connection with
executing the lease of office space in New York City on December 19, 2005,
described above in Note 8(a), the Company issued an irrevocable letter of
credit in favor of the landlord in the amount of $368,672 to secure its
performance under the terms, covenants and condition of the lease, with a term
of one year, which term shall automatically renew for successive one year
periods such that the   

86     

letter
of credit will not expire less than 60 days beyond the expiration date of the
lease. The Company incurred an issuance fee of $500 in connection with this
irrevocable letter of credit.  

     (9)       Employee
Restricted Stock and Other Stock Issuances 

  In November 2004, the Company granted 40,000
shares of restricted stock to a key employee of the Company which was
originally scheduled to vest in three annual tranches beginning in 2005.
Unearned stock compensation of $300,000 was recorded based on the fair market
value of the Company s common stock at the date of grant, or $7.50 per share.
Unearned stock compensation is shown as a separate component of stockholders 
equity and was originally being amortized to expense over the three-year
vesting period of the restricted stock. Amortization of unearned stock
compensation for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $22,917 and was
included in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of
operations. On December 20, 2005, the Board of Directors accelerated the
vesting of the stock award subject to lock-up, confidentiality and
non-competition agreements. 17,200 shares were returned to the Company to
settle related tax obligations. The Company recorded $277,083 of compensation
expense with respect to the award in the statement of operations for the year
ended December 31, 2005. The restricted stock has all the rights and
privileges of the Company s common stock, subject to certain restrictions and
forfeiture provisions.  

  During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004,
and 2003, the Company issued 901 shares, 17,082 shares, and 3,096 shares
of common stock with fair values of $5,000, $127,264 and $10,000, respectively,
for consulting services.  

  On November 12, 2004,
the Board of Directors approved a grant of 100,000 shares of restricted stock
to Kanders   Company, Inc. ( Kanders   Company ), the sole stockholder
of which is Warren B. Kanders, subject to certain performance conditions,
provided Mr. Kanders has not resigned from the Board of Directors, all of
which were originally scheduled to vest on November 12, 2007 and which
would accelerate upon the death of Mr. Kanders, or the change of control
of the Company. On December 20, 2005, the Board of Directors accelerated
the vesting of the stock award, which remains subject to lock-up,
confidentiality and non-competition agreements. The Company recorded a
compensation charge of $465,000 with respect to such award in the statement of
operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, of which approximately
$317,000 relates to the acceleration of the vesting of such award.  

     (10)       Stock Options 

  The Company maintained a stock option plan for
employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors of the Company
covering 550,000 shares of common stock (the  1992 Plan ). Outstanding options
granted under the 1992 Plan are exercisable for a period of ten years from date
of grant at an exercise price at least equal to 100 percent of the fair
market value of the Company s common stock at the date of grant. Pursuant to
vesting schedules all of which is subject to the approval of the Board of
Directors. The expiration date of the plan was July 26, 2002. At
December 31, 2005, there were 175,000 options outstanding under the 1992
Plan. At the Company s July 17, 2001 annual meeting, the shareholders
approved and adopted a new stock incentive plan for a maximum of 1,500,000
shares of common stock (the  2001 Plan ) with substantially the same terms as
the 1992 Plan. At December 31, 2005, there were 716,628 options
outstanding under the 2001 Plan. On June 23, 2005, the shareholders
approved the Company s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, pursuant to which a maximum
2,000,000 shares of commons stock are reserved for issuance and available for
awards.  

87     

The
following is a summary of activity related to the Company s qualified and
non-qualified stock options:   

The
following table summarizes information about options outstanding as of December 31,
2005:  

At December 31, 2005, all 175,000 options were
exercisable and no options were available for issuance under the 1992 Plan. At December 31,
2005, 641,628 options were exercisable, 75,000 options were unexercisable and
no options were available under the 2001 Plan. At December 31, 2005, all
768,500 issued under the 2005 Plan were exercisable under the 2005 Plan. The
options outstanding at December 31, 2005 under the 1992 Plan, the 2001
Plan and the 2005 Plan had remaining lives ranging from approximately 5 years
to almost 10 years, with a weighted-average life of approximately
8.6 years.  

  On September 8, 2005, the Company determined not
to extend Andrew H. Meyer s employment contract, and in accordance with
its terms, the contract expired December 31, 2005 (except for certain
covenants by Mr. Meyers in favor of the Company). In accordance with a
modification of the employment contract on November 12, 2004, which
extended his right to exercise 175,000 vested options from 90 days to one year
beyond termination, the Company recorded a non-cash charge equal to the
intrinsic value of the options on the date the option agreement was modified,
or approximately $1,046,000 at December 31, 2005.   

88     

The Company issued certain stock options for
consulting services. In connection with such options, the Company recorded
non-cash compensation expense totaling $1,257,000, which includes the effect of
accelerating the vesting of certain stock options in the year ended
December 31, 2005 (see Note 15,  Related Party Transactions ).  

  On December 20, 2005, in order to lessen the
impact in future periods, the Company accelerated the vesting of (i) certain
unvested stock options previously awarded to employees, officers, consultants
and directors of the Company under its 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan, and (ii) all unvested restricted stock awards, subject in
each case to such optionees and restricted stock award holders entering into
lock-up, confidentiality and non-competition agreements. As a result of this
action, options to purchase 1,238,503 shares of common stock (387,500 shares of
which were consultant stock options and 851,003 shares of which were employee
stock options) that would have vested over the next one to five years became
fully vested. None of these employee stock options were in the money on this
date. Therefore, there was no compensation expense recognized with respect to
the acceleration of the 851,003 stock options. Outstanding unvested options
(75,000) that were not accelerated will continue to vest on their current
schedules. The 75,000 unvested options were forfeited in the first quarter of
2006.  

  The decision to accelerate the vesting of these
options and awards, which the Company believes to be in the interest of its
stockholders, was made primarily to reduce non-cash compensation that would
have been recorded in future periods following the Company s application of the
SFAS No. 123(R). The Company will be required to apply the expense
recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) beginning January 1,
2006. The acceleration of the vesting of the employees  and directors  options
is expected to reduce the Company s non-cash compensation expense related to
the options by approximately $2,071,000 (pre-tax) for the years 2006 - 2010.
The acceleration of vesting of certain stock awards, and stock options issued
for consulting services resulted in a charge to operations of approximately
$1,313,000 (pre-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2005.  

  The
following table sets forth the numbers of shares as to which the vesting of
stock options or restricted stock awards has been accelerated as a result of
the foregoing changes for directors and executive officers, and for other
holders of options and/or restricted stock award:  

(1)             Became President and
Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2006. 

  At December 31, 2005, there were 716,628 and
175,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the 2001 Plan and
1992 Plan, respectively. Additionally, there are 768,500 shares of common stock
reserved for issuance under the 2005 Plan and 1,130,599 shares of common stock
available for future grants.  

89  

In 2001, the Company
issued 100,000 options to Kanders   Company which are exercisable at a
price of $1.525 per share. (See Note 15,  Related Party Transactions  for
more information.)  

    Additional Stock Plan Information    

  The Company continues to account for its stock-based
awards using the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB No. 25,
 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees , and its related interpretations.
Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized in the financial
statements for employee stock arrangements.  

  SFAS No. 123,
 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  requires the disclosure of pro
forma net income and net income per share had the Company adopted the fair
value method as of the beginning of fiscal 1997 (see Note 1(p)). Under
SFAS No. 123, the fair value of stock-based awards to employees is
calculated through the use of option pricing models, even though such models
were developed to estimate the fair value of freely tradable, fully
transferable options without vesting restrictions, which significantly differ
from the Company s stock option awards. These models also require subjective
assumptions, including future stock price volatility and expected time to
exercise, which greatly affect the calculated values. The Company s
calculations were made using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with
the following weighted average assumptions: expected life, 60 months
following vesting; stock volatility of 57%, 63% and 62%, and risk free interest
rates of 4.12%, 3.52%, and 2.57%, for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004, and 2003, respectively, and no dividends during the expected term. During
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the options granted had weighted
fair values of $3.01, $4.04 and $1.43 per share, respectively. The
Company s calculations are on a multiple option valuation approach and
forfeitures are recognized as they occur.  

   (11)       Segment
Information 

  In the nine months ended September 30, 2004 and
the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company operated in two segments
(custom orthotics and distributed products) principally in the design,
development, manufacture and sale of foot and gait-related products.
Intersegment net sales are recorded at cost.  

  Beginning
October 1, 2004, following the acquisition of Silipos, the Company
operated in two segments, orthopedic and skincare. The segment information for
the year ended December 31, 2005 is reported utilizing these segments, and
the information for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 has been
restated to reflect the current segment reporting structure. Segment
information for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is
summarized as follows:  

90     

Geographical
segment information is summarized as follows:   

91  

Export sales from the
Company s United States operations accounted for approximately 17%, 15%, and
17% of net sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003, respectively.  

     (12)       Pension Plan and
401(k) Plan 

  Prior to July 30, 1986, the Company maintained a
non-contributory defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all
employees. Effective July 30, 1986, the Company adopted an amendment to
the plan under which future benefit accruals to the plan ceased (freezing the
maximum benefits available to employees as of July 30, 1986), other than
those required by law. Previously accrued benefits remain in effect and
continue to vest under the original terms of the plan.  

92     

The
following table sets forth the Company s defined benefit plan status at December 31,
2005 and December 31, 2004, determined by the plan s actuary in accordance
with SFAS No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for Pensions,  as amended by SFAS
No. 132:  

The
estimated future benefit payments payable by year are as follows:   

93  

Net periodic pension expense is comprised of the
following components:   

The
change in minimum liability with respect to pension benefits included in
comprehensive income (loss) is as follows:  

Assumptions   

     Weighted
average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31:   

Weighted
average assumptions used to determine periodic benefit cost for years ended December 31:   

The discount rate is based upon applicable interest
rates prescribed in the Plan for lump sum settlement payments.  

  The expected long-term rate of return is selected
based upon the expected duration of the projected benefit obligation for the
plan and the asset mix of the plan. There is no assumed increase in
compensation levels since future benefit accruals have ceased, as discussed
above. The unrecognized transition liability and unrecognized net loss are
being amortized over 30.4 and 18.2 years, respectively.  

  The
Company s pension plan weighted average asset allocations at December 31,
2005 and 2004 by asset category are as follows:  

The Company s investment policy is to maximize the
total rate of return (income and appreciation) with a view to the long-term
funding objectives of the pension plan. Therefore the plan assets are   

94     

diversified to the extent
necessary to minimize risk and to achieve optimal balance between risk and
return and between income and growth of assets though capital appreciation.  

  In 2005 and 2004, none of
the Company s stock was included in the equity securities component.  

     Cash flows   

  The Company expects to contribute approximately
$57,000 to the pension plan in 2006.  

  As required by Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 87, the Company recorded a pension liability of $40,388 at December 31,
2005 (included in Accrued Pension Expense) to reflect the excess of accumulated
benefits over the fair value of pension plan assets. Since the required
additional pension liability is in excess of the unrecognized prior service
cost (unrecognized transition obligation), an amount equal to the unrecognized
prior service cost has been recognized as an intangible asset in the amounts of
$96,738 and $104,529 (included in  Other assets ) as of December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively. The remaining liability required to be recognized is
reported as a separate component of stockholders  equity.  

  The Company has a defined
contribution retirement and savings plan (the  401(k) Plan ) designed to
qualify under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Code ).
Eligible employees include those who are at least twenty-one years old and who
have worked at least 1,000 hours during any one year. The Company may make
matching contributions in amounts that the Company determines at its discretion
at the beginning of each year. In addition, the Company may make further
discretionary contributions. Participating employees are immediately vested in
amounts attributable to their own salary or wage reduction elections, and are
vested in Company matching and discretionary contributions under a vesting
schedule that provides for ratable vesting over the second through sixth years
of service. The assets of the 40l (k) Plan are invested in stock, bond and
money market mutual funds. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004,
and 2003, and the Company made contributions totaling $73,430, $46,879 and
$47,225, respectively, to the 401(k) Plan.  

     (13)   Income
Taxes   

  The
provision for (benefit from) income taxes is comprised of the following:  

As of December 31, 2005, the Company has net
Federal tax operating loss carryforwards of approximately $6,400,000, which may
be applied against future taxable income and expires from 2006 through 2024. Future
utilization of these net operating loss carryforwards will be limited under
existing tax   

95     

law due to the change in
control of the Company in 2001. The Company also has available tax credit
carryforwards of approximately $141,000.  

  The
following is a summary of deferred tax assets and liabilities:   

The decrease in the net deferred liability reflects
the effect of the provision for impairment recorded for financial statement
purposes relating to certain identifiable intangible assets with indefinite
lives and certain identifiable intangible assets with definite lives
aggregating $2,102,000.  

  Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the
Company would not have needed a valuation allowance for the portion of the net
operating losses equal to the amount of tax-deductible goodwill and trade names
amortization expected to occur during the carryforward period of the net
operating losses based on the timing of the reversal of these taxable temporary
differences. As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the
reversal may not occur during the carryforward period of the net operating
losses because indefinite lived intangible assets and goodwill are not
amortized for financial statement purposes. Accordingly, during 2004 and 2003,
the Company recorded deferred income tax expense with respect to these
intangibles which were amortized for tax purposes but not for financial
statement purposes. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
recorded a provision for impairment of $1,600,000 with respect to identifiable
intangible assets with indefinite lives, and a provision for impairment of
$502,000 with respect to identifiable intangible assets with definite lives
which exceeded the amortization deductions available for tax purposes. The
Company recorded a deferred income tax (benefit) expense of approximately
$(315,000), $154,000, and $158,000 during the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which would not have been required prior to
the adoption of SFAS No. 142.  

  The deferred income tax recorded in 2003 was partially
offset by the recognition of a deferred tax benefit of approximately $6,000
related to an alternative minimum tax carryforward.  

96  

The
following is a summary of the domestic and foreign components of income (loss)
before income taxes:  

The
Company s effective provision for income taxes differs from the Federal
statutory rate. The reasons for such differences are as follows:  

The Company does not
provide for income taxes on the unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries
where, in management s opinion, such earnings have been indefinitely reinvested
in those operations or will be remitted as dividends with taxes substantially
offset by foreign tax credits, which are immaterial. It is not practical to
determine the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary
differences related to these investments.  

     (14)   Reconciliation
of Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share   

  Basic earnings per common
share ( EPS ) are computed based on the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings per common share are
computed based on the weighted average number of common shares, after giving
effect to dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during each period. The
diluted income (loss) per share computations for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004, and 2003 exclude approximately 1,910,000, 611,000, and 623,000 and
shares, respectively, related to employee stock options because the effect of
including them would be anti-dilutive. The impact of the Convertible Notes on
the calculation of the fully-diluted earnings per share was anti-dilutive
and is therefore not included in the computation for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003.  

97     

The
following table provides a reconciliation between basic and diluted earnings
(loss) per share:  

(15)   Related
Party Transactions   

     Consulting Agreement with Kanders   Company, Inc.       On
November 12, 2004, the Company entered into a consulting agreement (the  Consulting
Agreement ) with Kanders   Company, the sole stockholder of which is
Warren B. Kanders, who on November 12, 2004, became the Company s Chairman
of the Board of Directors, and who is the sole manager and voting member of
Langer Partners, LLC ( Langer Partners ), the Company s largest stockholder.
The Consulting Agreement provides that Kanders   Company will act as
the Company s non-exclusive consultant to provide us with strategic consulting
and corporate development services for a term of three years. Kanders  
Company will receive, pursuant to the Consulting Agreement, an annual fee of
$200,000 and may receive separate compensation for assistance, at the Company s
request, with certain transactions or other matters to be determined by the
board from time to time. Additionally, through the Consulting Agreement,
Kanders   Company was granted options to purchase 240,000 shares of
the Company s common stock at an exercise price of $7.50 per share (the market
price of the stock on the date of the grant), vesting in three equal annual
installments beginning on November 12, 2005. In November 2005, the
grant of the options for 240,000 shares to Kanders   Company was
cancelled and the Company granted to Mr. Kanders the 240,000 options on
the same terms. The Company accounted for 15,000 of such options as
compensation for duties performed by Mr. Kanders in his capacity as
Chairman of the Board of Directors under APB No. 25 and accounted for
225,000 of such options as being granted pursuant to the Consulting Agreement
and accounted for in accordance with EITF No. 96-18,  Accounting for
Equity Instruments That Are Issued to Other Than Employees for Acquiring, or in
Conjunction with Selling, Goods and Services.  In November 2005, Mr. Kanders
was granted 275,000 options at an exercise price of $4.89 (the market price at
the date of the grant) vesting in three equal annual installments beginning April 1,
2008. The Company accounted for 37,500 of these options as compensation for
duties performed in his capacity as Chairman of the Board of Directors and
237,500 as options granted pursuant to the Consulting Agreement. Additionally,
on December 20, 2005, the Board of Directors accelerated the vesting of
certain options, including these, subject to lockup, confidentiality and
non-competition agreements. The Company recorded non-cash stock option
compensation of approximately $1,257,000 for year ended December 31, 2005
with respect to the consulting options of which approximately $882,000 relates
to the acceleration of the vesting of such options. The Company has also agreed
to provide Kanders   Company with indemnification protection, which
survives the termination of the Consulting Agreement for six years, and extends
to any actual or wrongfully attempted breach of duty, neglect, error, or
misstatement by Kanders   Company alleged by any claimant. The
Consulting Agreement replaced a previous agreement for similar consulting
services, pursuant to which Kanders   Company received an annual fee
of $100,000, options to purchase 100,000 shares of the Company s common stock
at an exercise price of $1.525 per share, and the indemnification protection
described above. The Company expensed $200,000, $113,611 and $100,000 with
respect to the annual fee under the Consulting Agreement during the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

  On November 12, 2004,
the Board of Directors approved a grant of 100,000 shares of restricted stock
to Kanders   Company, subject to certain performance conditions,
provided Mr. Kanders has not resigned   

98     

from the
Board of Directors, all of which were originally scheduled to vest on November 12,
2007 and which would accelerate upon the death of Mr. Kanders, or the
change of control of the Company. On December 20, 2005, the Board of
Directors accelerated the vesting of the stock award subject to lock-up,
confidentiality and non-competition agreements. The Company recorded a
compensation charge of $465,000 with respect to such award in the statement of
operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, of which approximately
$317,000 relates to the acceleration of the vesting of such award.  

     Note and Warrant Purchase Agreement.             On September 30,
2004, the Company sold (a) the Subordinated Notes, and (b) warrants
to purchase an aggregate of 110,000 shares of the Company s common stock at an
exercise price of $0.02 per share (the  Warrants ) pursuant to a Note and
Warrant Purchase Agreement dated September 30, 2004 by and among the
Company and ten accredited investors, including Langer Partners. The
Subordinated Notes and Warrants were sold by the Company to finance the cash
portion of the Silipos acquisition. Langer Partners purchased $750,000
principal amount of the Subordinated Notes and Warrants to purchase 15,000
shares of the Company s common stock. As permitted under the terms of the Subordinated
Notes, all the Subordinated Notes were prepaid with interest on June 15,
2005. The Warrants became exercisable on September 30, 2005 and they
expire September 30, 2009. The exercise price of the Warrants is subject
to adjustment in certain circumstances. The fair value of all 110,000 of the
Warrants was determined to be $735,900 using the Black Scholes pricing model.
This amount was recognized as a discount to the Subordinated Notes and is being
amortized over the term of the Company s Subordinated Notes and recorded as an
additional interest expense. Under the Note and Warrant Purchase Agreement, the
Company filed a shelf registration statement covering resales of the
shares underlying the Warrants by December 31, 2005, which became
effective on January 13, 2006. 

     4% Convertible Subordinated Notes.             On October 31,
2001, the Company sold $14,589,000 of the Company s Convertible Notes due August 31,
2006 in a private placement of which $150,000 was converted to 25,000 shares of
common stock in June 2005. The remaining notes are convertible into
approximately 2,431,500 shares of the Company s common stock at a conversion
price of $6.00 per share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.
Langer Partners purchased and currently holds $2,500,000 principal amount of
the Company s Convertible Notes. Additionally, several persons and entities
that have family relationships with Warren Kanders purchased and currently hold
an aggregate of $590,000 principal amount of these notes. 

  On October 31, 2001,
Langer Partners entered into an agreement with Oracle Investment Management, Inc.
( Oracle ), pursuant to which Langer Partners agreed not to, without the prior
written consent of Oracle, sell, assign, pledge, or otherwise transfer any
shares of all the Company s common stock owned by Langer Partners until such
time as Oracle sells or otherwise transfers one-third or more of the Convertible
Notes acquired by it, or shares of common stock received upon conversion of the
notes. Oracle originally acquired and currently holds $4,000,000 in aggregate
principal amount of the Convertible Notes. Neither Oracle nor its affiliates
have converted any of the Convertible Notes to date. If Oracle transfers less
than one-third of its interest in the Convertible Notes acquired by it or the
shares of the Company s common stock it would receive upon conversion of the
notes, Langer Partners will be permitted to transfer a pro-rata percentage of
the Company s common stock owned by it. Langer Partners further agreed with
Oracle to vote all shares of common stock owned by Langer Partners in favor of
so many nominees of Oracle to the Company s Board of Directors as is equal on a
percentage basis to the aggregate percentage of the Company s common stock
owned by Oracle on a fully diluted basis. Oracle is currently entitled to
designate one Board nominee pursuant to this right. However, Oracle has not to
date nominated a director.  

     Tender Offer.             In February 2001,
an investor group and management team, including the Company s current Chairman
of the Board of Directors Warren B. Kanders, the Company s former President,
Chief Executive Officer and director, Andrew H. Meyers, and the Company s
former Board of Directors  

99     

member, Gregory R.
Nelson, obtained a controlling interest in Langer, by purchasing 1,362,509
shares of Langer at $1.525 per share, or approximately 51% of the then
outstanding common stock of Langer, under the terms of a negotiated tender
offer agreement with the Company. The aggregate purchase price paid by the
group was $2,077,826. The investor group was also granted a 180 day option
to purchase up to 1,400,000 additional shares of Langer common stock, with an
initial exercise price of $1.525 per share, rising up to $1.60 per share. On May 14,
2001, the option was exercised in full and the shares were purchased at a price
of $1.525 per share. As a result of the tender offer and option exercise, the
investor group acquired approximately 57.8% of the outstanding common stock of
Langer (without giving effect to the options granted to Kanders  
Company and Andrew H. Meyers, as discussed below) for an aggregate
consideration of $4,212,826. In connection with the tender offer, the Company
entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Meyers that provided that he
would serve as the Company s President and Chief Executive Officer for a
three-year term that would expire December 31, 2003 at a salary of
$175,000 and granted him options to purchase 175,000 shares at an exercise
price of $1.525. The Company also entered into a three year consulting
agreement for financial advisory services with Kanders   Company, of
which Mr. Kanders is sole stockholder, providing for an annual fee of
$100,000, an award of options for 100,000 shares at a price of $1.525 per share
(which equaled the price paid in the tender offer), and a non-renewal fee of
$100,000, which Kanders   Company waived when it entered into a
consulting agreement with the Company in November 2004.  

     Loan to Steven Goldstein.             In April 2002,
the Company made a full-recourse secured two-year term loan to Mr. Steven
Goldstein, who was then the Company s Executive Vice President, in the
principal sum of $21,000, which provided for interest at the rate of 4% per
year, compounded quarterly. The loan, along with applicable interest, was
repaid in April 2004. 

     Contract termination.             On September 8,
2005, the Company determined not to extend Andrew H. Meyer s
employment contract, and in accordance with its terms, the contract expired December 31,
2005 (except for certain covenants by Mr. Meyers in favor of the Company).
In accordance with a modification of the employment contract on November 12,
2004, which extended his right to exercise 175,000 vested options from 90 days
to one year beyond termination, the Company recorded a non-cash charge equal to
the intrinsic value of the options on the date the option agreement was
modified, or approximately $1,046,000 at December 31, 2005. Additionally,
as of December 31, 2005, the Company accrued approximately $335,000 for
severance related expenses in accordance with the contract and a related
separation agreement. 

     Other related party transactions.             The Company
has obtained certain technology related products and services from a company
owned by the brother-in-law of Andrew Meyers, who was, until December 31,
2005, the Company s President, Chief Executive Officer and who remained a
director of the Company until March 24, 2006. Costs incurred by the
Company for such products and services were approximately $37,000, $31,000, and
$142,000 in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. The Company also engaged a company owned by Steven Goldstein s
father-in-law to provide certain promotional and marketing goods and services
to the Company. Mr. Goldstein was Executive Vice President of the company
prior to September 30, 2005. Costs incurred with respect to such goods and
services for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were approximately
$50,000, and $56,000, respectively. There was no such amount incurred in the
year ended December 31, 2005. 

     (16)   Litigation   

  From time to time, the
Company is subject to certain legal actions arising in the normal course of
business. After taking into consideration legal counsel s evaluation of such
actions, management is of the opinion that their final resolution will not have
a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements.  

  On April 21, 2005, Thermo-Ply, Inc., a
Florida corporation, filed an action in the United States District Court for
the Middle District of Florida (Tampa Division) against Silipos and four other   

100     

defendants. The action
asserts a claim for alleged infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,231,617.
Although not specifically identified by the claim, the Company believes that
the claim, insofar as it relates to the Company, may be directed towards the
Explorer Gel Liners manufactured, distributed and sold by Silipos. The Company
is currently investigating the validity of this claim. Should the plaintiff be
successful in pressing this claim, Silipos could be enjoined from making, using
or selling the accused products and could also be assessed damages for the
alleged infringement, which damages could be increased up to three times in the
event the infringement is found to be willful, together with attorney fees and
certain costs. The parties are discussing a settlement of the action although
no assurance can be given that such discussions will lead to a settlement
favorable to the Company. Pursuant to the Silipos stock purchase agreement, SSL
has agreed to fund any of the Company s obligations resulting from the
settlement over $150,000, which the Company had accrued or paid as of
December 31, 2005.  

  In addition, in connection
with the Company s acquisition of Silipos, the Company could become subject to
certain claims or actions brought by Poly-Gel, although no such claims have
been brought to date. These claims may arise, for example, out of the supply
agreement between Silipos and Poly-Gel dated August 20, 1999, the
manufacture, marketing or sale of products made from gel not purchased from
Poly-Gel, alleged misappropriation of trade secrets or other confidential
information (including gel formulations) of Poly-Gel, as well as any other
alleged violations of the supply agreement (the  Potential Poly-Gel Claims ).
For any of these potential claims, SSL has agreed to indemnify the Company for
losses up to $2.0 million, after which the Company would be liable for any such
claims. Furthermore, the Company has assumed responsibility for the first
$150,000 of such liability in connection with the Company s acquisition of
Silipos, and SSL s maximum liability for total indemnification related to the
Company s acquisition of Silipos is between $5,000,000 and $7,000,000. Thus, if
the total amount of all claims arising from the acquisition exceed this
maximum, whether or not related to Poly-Gel, the Company would be liable for
amounts in excess of the maximum. For claims arising out of conduct that occurs
after the closing of the Silipos transaction on September 30, 2004, the
Company has agreed to indemnify SSL against losses. The Company would expect to
vigorously defend against any claims brought by Poly-Gel or any other third
party.  

  On or about February 13,
2006, Dr. Gerald P. Zook filed a demand for arbitration with the American
Arbitration Association, naming the Company and Silipos as 2 of the 16
respondents. (Four of the other respondents are the former owners of Silipos
and its affiliates, and the other 10 respondents are unknown entities.)  The demand for arbitration alleges that the
Company and Silipos are in default of obligations to pay royalties in
accordance with the terms of a license agreement between Dr. Zook and
Silipos dated as of January 1, 1997, with respect to seven patents owned
by Dr. Zook and licensed to Silipos. Silipos has paid royalties to Dr. Zook,
but Dr. Zook claims that greater royalties are owed. The demand for
arbitration seeks an award of $400,000 and reserves the right to seek a higher
award after completion of discovery. The Company and Silipos intend to
vigorously defend the claim.  

  On or about February 23,
2006, Silipos commenced an action in New York State Supreme Court, New York
County, against Mr. Peter D. Bickel, who was the executive vice president
of Silipos, Inc., until January 11, 2006. In the action, Silipos
seeks, among other things, a declaratory judgment that Mr. Bickel is not
entitled to severance pay or other benefits, on account of his breach of
various provisions of his employment agreement with Silipos and his
non-disclosure agreement with Silipos, and that his termination by Silipos was
for  cause  as defined in the employment agreement. Silipos is also seeking an
aggregate of $12 million in compensatory and punitive damages for breaches of
the employment agreement, breach of the non-disclosure agreement, breach of
fiduciary duties, misappropriation of trade secrets, and tortious interference
with business relationships. No assurance can be given that Silipos will be
successful in recovering all or any portion of this amount. On or about March 22,
2006, Mr. Bickel removed the lawsuit to the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York and filed an answer denying the material
allegations of the complaint and counterclaims seeking a declaratory judgment
that his non-disclosure agreement is unenforceable and that he is entitled to
$500,000,   

101     

representing
two years  base salary, in severance compensation, on the ground that Silipos
did not have  cause  to terminate his employment. Silipos intends to vigorously
defend these counterclaims.  

     (17)   Quarterly
Operating Results (Unaudited):   

(1)             Certain
adjustments were recorded in the quarter ended December 31, 2005. 

  (a)             The
Company s annual test date under SFAS No. 142 is October 1, 2005, and as a
result of the analysis, the Company recorded an impairment of $1,600,000
related to the Benefoot tradename. Furthermore, the Company recorded an SFAS
No. 144 impairment of $502,000 with respect to other related identifiable intangible
assets. 

  (b)            Stock
award and stock option compensation expense totalling approximately $2,398,000,
of which approximately $1,313,000 related to the acceleration of vesting of
certain stock options and stock awards, which occurred at the end of the fourth
quarter. 

102     

ITEM 9.                    CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

  Not applicable.  

     ITEM 9A.            CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES 

     Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

  The Company s management
carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of
the Company s current Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who
are, respectively, its current principal executive officer and principal
financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the
Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
Act ) as of December 31, 2005, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15.  

   Restatement of
Previously Issued Financial Statements   

  During 2005, the Company concluded that its condensed
consolidated financial statements in Form 10-Q for the quarterly
periods ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 needed to be restated.
The restatements were required as a result of the Company s conclusion that
changes to accounting for certain stock options and restricted stock grants
were required.  

  Management has concluded
that the controls in place relating to the accounting of stock options and
restricted stock were not effective during such period to provide reasonable
assurance that these stock options would be properly recorded and disclosed in
the financial statements, and that this is a material weakness in internal
control over financial reporting.  

   Remediation of
Material Weakness   

  The Audit Committee of the
Company s Board of Directors is continuing its review of the Company s internal
controls to determine how this material weakness occurred and how to implement
controls designed to avoid the occurrence of this kind of problem in the
future.  

     Changes in Internal Controls   

   There
was no change in the Company s internal controls over financial reporting (as
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that occurred during the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely
to materially affect, the Company s internal controls over financial reporting.   

     ITEM 9B.           OTHER
INFORMATION 

  Not applicable.  

103  

PART III   

     ITEM 10.             DIRECTORS
AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY 

  The information set forth under the caption  Election
of Directors  in the proxy statement to be distributed by the Board of
Directors of the Company in connection with the 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.  

  The Company has adopted a
code of ethics that applies to its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, who are the Company s principal executive officer and principal
financial and accounting officer, and to all of its other officers, directors
and employees. The code of ethics may be accessed at www.langerinc.com, our
Internet website, at the tab  Investor Relations . The Company intends to
disclose future amendments to, or waivers from, certain provision of its code
of ethics, if any, on the above website within four business days following the
date of such amendment or waiver.  

     ITEM 11.             EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION 

  The information required
by Item 11 appearing under the caption  Executive Compensation  of the Company s
proxy statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated
herein by reference.  

     ITEM 12.             SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS 

  The information required
by Item 12 appearing under the caption  Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management  of the Company s proxy statement for the 2006
Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.  

     ITEM 13.             CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

  The information required
by Item 13 appearing under the caption  Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions  of the Company s proxy statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of
the Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.  

     ITEM 14.             PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

  The information required
by Item 14 appearing under the caption  Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
of the Company s proxy statement for the 2006 annual meeting of the
stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.  

104     

PART IV   

     ITEM 15.             EXHIBITS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

     1. Financial Statements   

  For a list of the
financial statements of the Company included in this report, please see the Index
to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the beginning of Item 8,
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  

     2. Financial Statement Schedules   

  The following Financial Statement Schedule is filed as
part of this Form 10-K:  

  Schedule II Valuation
and Qualifying Accounts  

   LANGER, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
ACCOUNTS 
SCHEDULE II   

All other schedules have
been omitted because they are not applicable, not required or the information
is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements, including the notes
thereto.  

     3. Exhibits   

Exhibit No. 

Description of Exhibit   

3.1  

Agreement and Plan of
  Merger dated as of May 15, 2002, between Langer, Inc., a New York
  corporation, and Langer, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the surviving
  corporation), incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A of our
  Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on
  June 27, 2002, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
  May 31, 2002.  

3.2  

Certificate of
  Incorporation, incorporated herein by reference to Appendix B of our
  Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on
  June 27, 2002, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
  May 31, 2002.  

3.3  

By-laws,
  incorporated herein by reference to Appendix C of our Definitive Proxy
  Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 27, 2002,
  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 31, 2002.  

105     

106     

10.16 

Form of
  Indemnification Agreement for Langer, Inc. s executive officers and
  directors, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 of our Annual
  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28,
  2001.  

10.17  

Copy of Lease related to
  Langer, Inc. s Deer Park, NY facilities incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(f) of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
  fiscal year ended February 28, 1993.  

10.17.1  

Copy of Amendment to
  Lease of Langer, Inc. s Deer Park, NY facility dated February 19,
  1999.    

10.18  

Asset Purchase
  Agreement, dated May 6, 2002, by and among Langer, Inc., GoodFoot
  Acquisition Co., Benefoot, Inc., Benefoot Professional
  Products, Inc., Jason Kraus, and Paul Langer, incorporated herein by reference
  to Exhibit 2.1 of our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
  the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 13, 2002.  

10.19  

Registration Rights
  Agreement, dated May 6, 2002, among Langer, Inc.,
  Benefoot, Inc., Benefoot Professional Products, Inc., and
  Dr. Sheldon Langer, incorporated herein by reference to
  Exhibit 10.1 of our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with
  the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 13, 2002.  

10.20  

Promissory Note, dated
  May 6, 2002, made by Langer, Inc. in favor of Benefoot, Inc.,
  incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of our Current Report
  on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
  May 13, 2002.  

10.21  

Promissory Note, dated
  May 6, 2002, made by Langer, Inc. in favor of Benefoot Professional
  Products, Inc., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of
  our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and
  Exchange Commission on May 13, 2002.  

10.22  

Stock Purchase
  Agreement, dated January 13, 2003, by and among Langer, Inc.,
  Langer Canada Inc., Raynald Henry, Micheline Gadoury, 9117-3419 Quebec
  Inc., Bi-Op Laboratories Inc., incorporated herein by reference to
  Exhibit 2.1 of our Current Report on Form 8- K filed with the
  Securities and Exchange Commission on January 13, 2003.  

10.23  

Employment Agreement
  between Langer, Inc. and Joseph Ciavarella dated as of February 16,
  2004, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 of our Annual
  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.+  

10.24  

Option Agreement between
  Langer, Inc. and Joseph P. Ciavarella dated as of March 24, 2004,
  incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.34 of our Annual Report
  on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.+  

10.25  

Stock Purchase
  Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2004, by and among
  Langer, Inc., LRC North America, Inc., SSL Holdings, Inc., and
  Silipos, Inc., incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of
  our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
  Exchange Commission on October 6, 2004.  

10.26  

Stock Pledge and Agency
  Agreement, dated September 30, 2004, by and among Langer, Inc., SSL
  Holdings, Inc., and Pepper Hamilton LLP., incorporated herein by
  reference to Exhibit 4.4 of our Current Report on Form 8-K
  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 6, 2004.  

10.27  

$7,500,000 Secured
  Promissory Note due March 31, 2006, incorporated herein by reference to
  Exhibit 4.5 of our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
  Securities and Exchange Commission on October 6, 2004.  

107     

108     

Incorporated
by reference to our Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-120718)
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 23, 2004. 

                    Incorporated by reference
to Amendment No. 2, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11,
2005, of our Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-120718). 

  +                   This exhibit
represents a management contract or compensation plan. 

109  

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant
to the requirements of Section l3 or l5(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of l934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

LANGER, INC.   

By:  

/s/ W. GRAY HUDKINS  

Date: March 30, 2006  

W. Gray Hudkins 
    President and Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer)    

By:  

/s/ JOSEPH P. CIAVARELLA  

Date: March 30, 2006  

Joseph P. Ciavarella 
    Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Accounting Officer)    

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of l934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.  

110  

<EX-21.1>
 2
 a06-7675_1ex21d1.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit 21.1   

     SUBSIDIARIES   

  Langer, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation, owns 100% of the outstanding capital stock of each of
the following corporations:  

  1.                   Langer
Biomechanics Group (UK) Limited, an English limited liability company. 

  2.                   Langer
Distribution Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (formerly known as
GoodFoot Acquisition Co.). 

  3.                   Langer
Canada Inc., a New Brunswick (Canada) corporation. 

  Langer  Canada Inc.,
owns 100% of the outstanding capital stock of Bi-Op Laboratories Inc., a
Quebec (Canada) corporation.  

  4.                   Silipos, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation. 

  Silipos, Inc. owns 100% of the outstanding
capital stock of Silipos (UK), Ltd. an English limited liability Company.  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 3
 a06-7675_1ex23d1.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

Exhibit 23.1   

      Consent of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm    

  Langer, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Deer Park, New York  

  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in
Registration Statement No. 333-92014 on Form S-3,
Registration Statement Nos. 333-94769 and 333-110962 on Form S-8
and Registration Statement No. 333-94769 on Form S-8/A of
our report dated March 21, 2006, relating to the consolidated financial
statements and schedules of Langer, Inc. and Subsidiaries appearing in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2005.  

  /s/  BDO
Seidman, LLP 
Melville, New York  

  March 27, 2006  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 4
 a06-7675_1ex23d2.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

Exhibit 23.2   

     CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM   

  We consent to the
incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-130765
and 333-92014 on Form S-3, Registration Statement No. 333-130764,
333-94769 and 333-110962 on Form S-8 and Registration
Statement No. 333-94769 on Form S-8/A of our report dated
March 17, 2005, relating to the financial statements and financial statement
schedules of Langer, Inc. as of December 31, 2004 and for the two
years in the period ended December 31, 2004 appearing in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K of Langer, Inc. for the year ended December 31,
2005.  

  /s/ Deloitte  
Touche LLP 
Jericho, New York 
March 28, 2006  

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 a06-7675_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.1   

     CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER   

  I, W. Gray Hudkins,
certify that:  

  1.                   I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Langer, Inc.; 

  2.                   Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                   Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                   The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and have: 

  (a)              Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  (b)             Designed such internal
control over financial reporting, or causes such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. 

  (c)              Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  (d)             Disclosed in this report
any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                   The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  (a)              All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

  (b)             Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 30, 2006 

/s/ W. GRAY
  HUDKINS  

W. Gray Hudkins  

President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 a06-7675_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 31.2   

     CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER   

  I, Joseph P.
Ciavarella, certify that:  

  1.                   I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Langer, Inc.; 

  2.                   Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                   Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                   The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and have: 

  (a)              Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

  (b)             Designed such internal
control over financial reporting, or causes such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. 

  (c)              Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

  (d)             Disclosed in this report
any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

  5.                   The registrant s
other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  (a)              All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

  (b)             Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 30, 2006 

/s/ JOSEPH P.
  CIAVARELLA  

Joseph P. Ciavarella  

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 a06-7675_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1   

     CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION 906 OF
THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  I, W. Gray Hudkins, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,
as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, that the Annual Report of Langer, Inc. on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2005, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained
in such Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly presents in all material
respects the financial condition and results of operations of Langer, Inc.  

  A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been
provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to
the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

Date: March 30, 2006 

/s/ W. GRAY
  HUDKINS  

W. Gray Hudkins  

President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 a06-7675_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.2   

     CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER 
PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

   SECTION 906 OF
THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  I, Joseph P. Ciavarella, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report of Langer, Inc.
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such Annual
Report on Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects the
financial condition and results of operations of Langer, Inc.  

  A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been
provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to
the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

Date: March 30, 2006 

/s/ JOSEPH P.
  CIAVARELLA  

Joseph P. Ciavarella  

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-32.2>

