<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_929498_0000950144-06-003062_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>483145</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>373175</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1280</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>51</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950144-06-003062.hdr.sgml : 20060419
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331174041
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950144-06-003062
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060419

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			TRAVELERS LIFE & ANNUITY CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000929498
		IRS NUMBER:				000000000
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CT
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	033-58677
		FILM NUMBER:		06730364

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE TOWER SQUARE
		STREET 2:		FINANCIAL SERVICES LEGAL DIVISION
		CITY:			HARTFORD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06183
		BUSINESS PHONE:		860-277-0111

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		FINANCIAL SERVICES LEGAL DIVISION
		STREET 2:		450 COLUMBUS BLVD 12NB
		CITY:			HARTFORD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06183

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 HDB04ilxjkI0lpns7ff6Bc40EFX5ukvLnNAfpEDXcpjDH5D75bdlwqPujU/PyPFe
 1eML0BUDbk6aAgcLNOAHMQ==

 0000950144-06-003062.txt : 20060419

10-K
 1
 y18208e10vk.txt
 FORM 10-K

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 33-58677

                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

CONNECTICUT                                         06-0904249
         (State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
          incorporation or organization)                          Identification No.)

ONE CITYPLACE
                        HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT 06103-3415
                                 (860) 308-1000
   (Address and telephone number of registrant's principal executive offices)

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: NONE

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE

     Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer,
as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes [ ]     No [X]

     Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes [ ]     No [X]

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]     No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (sec. 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer,
an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of "accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer [ ]          Accelerated filer [ ]           Non-accelerated filer [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes [ ]     No [X]

     At March 30, 2006, 30,000 shares of the registrant's Common Stock, $100 par
value per share, were outstanding, all of which are owned by The Travelers
Insurance Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc.

                           REDUCED DISCLOSURE FORMAT

     THE REGISTRANT MEETS THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN GENERAL INSTRUCTION
I(1)(A) AND (B) OF FORM 10-K AND IS THEREFORE FILING THIS FORM WITH THE REDUCED
DISCLOSURE FORMAT.

                   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: NONE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PAGE
                                                                               NUMBER
                                                                               ------
                                                                            
                                       PART I
Item 1.          Business....................................................     3
Item 1A.         Risk Factors................................................    11
Item 1B.         Unresolved Staff Comments...................................    22
Item 2.          Properties..................................................    22
Item 3.          Legal Proceedings...........................................    22
Item 4.          Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.........    23

                                       PART II
Item 5.          Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder
                 Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities...........    24
Item 6.          Selected Financial Data.....................................    24
Item 7.          Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                 and Results of Operations...................................    24
Item 7A.         Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
                 Risk........................................................    35
Item 8.          Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................    40
Item 9.          Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
                 and Financial Disclosure....................................    41
Item 9A.         Controls and Procedures.....................................    41
Item 9B.         Other Information...........................................    41

                                      PART III
Item 10.         Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..........    41
Item 11.         Executive Compensation......................................    41
Item 12.         Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
                 Management and Related Stockholder Matters..................    41
Item 13.         Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..............    41
Item 14.         Principal Accountant Fees and Services......................    42

                                       PART IV
Item 15.         Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules..................    43

SIGNATURES...................................................................    44

EXHIBIT INDEX................................................................   E-1

1

NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains statements
which constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to
trends in the operations and financial results and the business and the products
of The Travelers Life and Annuity Company and its subsidiaries, as well as other
statements including words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate,"
"expect," "intend" and other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are
made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future
developments and their potential effects on The Travelers Life and Annuity
Company and its subsidiaries. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees
of future performance. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations."

                                        2

PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

     As used in this Form 10-K, the "Company," "we," "our" and "us" refer to The
Travelers Life and Annuity Company ("TLAC"), a Connecticut corporation
incorporated in 1973, and its subsidiaries. TLAC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of
The Travelers Insurance Company ("TIC"). On July 1, 2005 (the "Acquisition
Date"), TIC became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. ("MetLife"),
together with its subsidiaries, a leading provider of insurance and other
financial services to millions of individual and institutional customers
throughout the United States. Outside the United States, the MetLife companies
have direct insurance operations in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Europe.

     On the Acquisition Date, TLAC and other affiliated entities, including the
Company's parent, TIC, and substantially all of Citigroup Inc.'s ("Citigroup")
international insurance businesses (collectively, "Travelers"), were acquired by
MetLife from Citigroup (the "Acquisition") for $12.0 billion.

     The Company currently operates as a single segment and, as such, financial
results are prepared and reviewed by management as a single operating segment.
The Company continually evaluates its operating activities and the method
utilized by management to evaluate the performance of such activities and will
report on a segment basis when appropriate to do so.

     The Company currently offers retail annuities, individual life insurance
and asset accumulation products. The Company's principal individual products
include traditional life, universal and variable life insurance, fixed and
variable annuities, as well as income annuities. The retirement & savings
products offered by the Company include payout annuities sold to
employer-sponsored retirement & savings plans and structured settlements.

     The Company may phase out the issuance of products that it currently is
selling by the end of 2006 which may, over time, result in fewer assets and
liabilities. The Company may, however, determine to introduce new products in
the future.

DISTRIBUTION

     Subsequent to the Acquisition, the Company's individual product
distribution channel was integrated with the MetLife Independent Distribution
Group. Within the Independent Distribution Group, there are three distribution
channels, including the Coverage and Point-of-Sale models for risk-based
products and the Annuity model for accumulation-based products. Both the
Coverage and Point-of-Sale models sell universal life, variable universal life,
traditional life, and disability income products. The Annuity model sells both
fixed and variable annuities, as well as income annuities.

     The Company distributes individual insurance and investment products
through distribution channels which include MetLife Resources and Tower Square
Securities, Inc. ("Tower Square"), MetLife Resources, a division of MetLife,
markets retirement annuity and other financial products on a national basis
through 794 agents and independent brokers. MetLife Resources targets the
nonprofit, educational and healthcare markets. Tower Square, a subsidiary of
TIC, is an affiliated broker-dealer that markets variable life insurance and
variable annuity products through 629 independent registered representatives.

PRODUCTS

  INSURANCE PRODUCTS

     The Company offers a wide variety of individual insurance, as well as
annuities and investment-type products, aimed at serving its customers'
financial needs.

     Variable Life.  Variable life products provide insurance coverage through a
contract that gives the policyholder flexibility in investment choices and,
depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain
guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life products, premiums and account
balances can be directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate accounts
or directed to the
                                        3

Company's general account. In the separate accounts, the policyholder bears the
entire risk of the investment results. The Company collects specified fees for
the management of these various investment accounts and any net return is
credited directly to the policyholder's account. In some instances, third-party
money management firms manage investment accounts that support variable
insurance products. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level,
policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the
death benefit from adverse investment experience.

     Universal Life.  Universal life products provide insurance coverage on the
same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated
balances, are allocated only to the Company's general account. Universal life
products may allow the insured to increase or decrease the amount of death
benefit coverage over the term of the contract and the owner to adjust the
frequency and amount of premium payments. The Company credits premiums to an
account maintained for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of specified
expenses and interest, at interest rates it determines, subject to specified
minimums. Specific charges are made against the policyholder's account for the
cost of insurance protection and for expenses. With some products, by
maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of
various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment
experience.

     Whole Life.  Whole life products provide a guaranteed benefit upon the
death of the insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over
a predetermined period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of
the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be level or change in
accordance with a predetermined schedule. Whole life insurance includes policies
that provide a participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders may
receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death benefits, increase
cash values available upon surrender or reduce the premiums required to maintain
the contract in-force. Because the use of dividends is specified by the
policyholder, this group of products provides significant flexibility to
individuals to tailor the product to suit their specific needs and
circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed benefits.

     Term Life.  Term life provides a guaranteed benefit upon the death of the
insured for a specified time period in return for the periodic payment of
premiums. Specified coverage periods range from one year to 20 years, but in no
event are they longer than the period over which premiums are paid. Death
benefits may be level over the period or decreasing. Decreasing coverage is used
principally to provide for loan repayment in the event of death. Premiums may be
guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and
non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are sometimes referred to as pure
protection products, in that there are typically no savings or investment
elements. Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period
when the insured party is still living.

  ANNUITIES AND INVESTMENT PRODUCTS

     The Company offers a variety of individual annuities and investment
products, including variable and fixed annuities and retirement & savings
products.

     Variable Annuities.  The Company offers variable annuities for both asset
accumulation and asset distribution needs. Variable annuities allow the
contractholder to make deposits into various investment accounts, as determined
by the contractholder. The investment accounts are separate accounts and risks
associated with such investments are borne entirely by the contractholder. In
certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also choose to allocate
all or a portion of their account to the Company's general account and are
credited with interest at rates the Company determines, subject to certain
minimums. In addition, contractholders may also elect certain minimum death
benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional fees are
charged.

     Fixed Annuities.  Fixed annuities are used for both asset accumulation and
asset distribution needs. Fixed annuities do not allow the same investment
flexibility provided by variable annuities, but provide guarantees related to
the preservation of principal and interest credited. Deposits made into deferred
annuity contracts are allocated to the general account and are credited with
interest at rates the Company determines, subject to certain minimums. Credited
interest rates are guaranteed not to change for certain limited periods

                                        4

of time, ranging from one to ten years. Fixed income annuities provide a
guaranteed monthly income for a specified period of years and/or for the life of
the annuitant.

     Retirement & Savings.  Retirement & savings products and services include
payout annuities sold to employer-sponsored retirement & savings plans referred
to as group pension contracts, as well as structured settlements.

POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES

     The Company establishes, and carries as liabilities, actuarially determined
amounts that are calculated to meet its policy obligations when an annuitant
takes income, a policy matures or surrenders, an insured dies or becomes
disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events. The Company computes
the amounts for actuarial liabilities reported in its consolidated financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America ("GAAP").

     In establishing actuarial liabilities for certain other insurance
contracts, the Company distinguishes between short duration and long duration
contracts. The actuarial liability for short duration contracts consists of
gross unearned premiums as of the valuation date and the discounted amount of
the future payments on pending and approved claims as of the valuation date.
Long duration contracts consist of guaranteed renewable term life and
non-participating whole life contracts. The Company determines actuarial
liabilities for long duration contracts using assumptions based on experience,
plus a margin for adverse deviation for these policies. Where they exist, the
Company amortizes deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC") and value of
business acquired ("VOBA") in relation to anticipated premiums.

     Liabilities for investment-type and universal life-type products primarily
consist of policyholders' account balances. Investment-type products include
individual annuity contracts in the accumulation phase and certain group pension
contracts that have limited or no mortality risk. Universal life-type products
consist of universal and variable life contracts and certain group pension
contracts. For universal life-type contracts with front-end loads, the Company
defers the charge and amortizes the unearned revenue using the product's
estimated gross profits. The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA on investment-type
and universal life-type contracts in relation to estimated gross profits.

     Limited pay contracts primarily consist of single premium immediate
individual annuities and group pension annuities. Actuarial liabilities for
limited pay contracts are equal to the present value of future benefit payments
and related expenses less the present value of future net premiums plus premium
deficiency reserves, if any. For limited pay contracts, the Company also defers
the excess of the gross premium over the net premium and recognizes such excess
into income in a constant relationship with insurance in-force for life
insurance contracts and in relation to anticipated future benefit payments for
annuity contracts. The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA for limited pay contracts
over the premium payment period.

     The Company also establishes actuarial liabilities for future policy
benefits (associated with base policies and riders, unearned mortality charges
and future disability benefits), for other policyholder liabilities (associated
with unearned revenues and claims payable) and for unearned revenue (the
unamortized portion of front-end loads charged). Further, the Company
establishes liabilities for minimum death benefit guarantees relating to certain
annuity contracts and secondary and paid up guarantees relating to certain life
policies.

     Pursuant to state insurance laws, TLAC establishes statutory reserves,
reported as liabilities, to meet its obligations on its policies. These
statutory reserves are established in amounts sufficient to meet policy and
contract obligations, when taken together with expected future premiums and
interest at assumed rates. Statutory reserves generally differ from actuarial
liabilities for future policy benefits determined using GAAP.

     The Connecticut State Insurance Law and regulations require TLAC to submit
to the Connecticut Commissioner of Insurance ("Commissioner"), with each annual
report, an opinion and memorandum of a "qualified actuary" that the statutory
reserves and related actuarial amounts recorded in support of specified policies
and contracts, and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related
actuarial amounts, make

                                        5

adequate provision for its statutory liabilities with respect to these
obligations. See "-- Regulation -- Insurance Regulation -- Policy and Contract
Reserve Sufficiency Analysis."

     Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
uncertainty associated with the determination of its actuarial liabilities, the
Company cannot precisely determine the amounts that it will ultimately pay with
respect to these actuarial liabilities, and the ultimate amounts may vary from
the estimated amounts, particularly when payments may not occur until well into
the future. However, the Company believes its actuarial liabilities for future
benefits are adequate to cover the ultimate benefits required to be paid to
policyholders. The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial
liabilities for future benefits and compares them with its actual experience.
The Company revises estimates, to the extent permitted or required under GAAP,
if it determines that future expected experience differs from assumptions used
in the development of actuarial liabilities.

UNDERWRITING AND PRICING

     The Company's underwriting involves an evaluation of applications for life
insurance products and services by a professional staff of underwriters and
actuaries, who determine the type and the amount of risk that the Company is
willing to accept. The Company employs detailed underwriting policies,
guidelines and procedures designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess
and quantify risks before issuing policies to qualified applicants or groups.

     Individual underwriting considers not only an applicant's medical history,
but also other factors such as financial profiles, foreign travel, vocations and
alcohol, drug and tobacco use. Generally, the Company is not obligated to accept
any risk from, or to issue a policy to, any employer or intermediary. Requests
for coverage are reviewed on their merits and generally a policy is not issued
unless the particular risk has been examined and approved for underwriting.
Underwriting is generally done by the Company, although some policies are
reviewed by intermediaries under strict guidelines established by the Company.

     The Company engages in a multilevel series of ongoing internal underwriting
audits, and is subject to external audits by its reinsurers, at both its remote
underwriting offices and its corporate underwriting office. During the fourth
quarter of 2005, the Company reviewed its underwriting criteria, related to the
Travelers Acquisition, in order to refine its estimate of the fair values of
assumed future policy benefit liabilities. As a result of these reviews and
actuarial analyses, and to be consistent with MetLife's reserving methodologies,
the Company increased its estimate of the fair value of liabilities relating to
a specific group of acquired life insurance policies and related deferred tax
assets by $314 million and $110 million, respectively. This review also resulted
in a pre-tax charge of $26 million to the 2005 fourth quarter results. The
Company expects to complete its reviews and, if required, further refine its
estimate of the fair values of such liabilities by June 30, 2006.

     The Company has established senior level oversight of the underwriting
process that facilitates quality sales and serving the needs of its customers,
while supporting its financial strength and business objectives. The Company's
goal is to achieve the underwriting, mortality and morbidity levels reflected in
the assumptions in its product pricing. This is accomplished by determining and
establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and strategies that
are competitive and suitable for the customer, the agent and the Company.

     Pricing for the Company's products reflects the Company's insurance
underwriting standards. Pricing of insurance products is based on the expected
payout of benefits calculated through the use of assumptions for mortality,
morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment returns, as well as certain
macroeconomic factors, such as inflation. Product specifications are designed to
mitigate the risks of greater than expected mortality, and the Company
periodically monitors mortality and morbidity assumptions. Investment-oriented
products are priced based on various factors, which may include investment
return, expenses, persistency, and optionality.

     The Company continually reviews its underwriting and pricing guidelines so
that its policies remain competitive and supportive of its marketing strategies
and profitability goals. Decisions are based on

                                        6

established actuarial pricing and risk selection principles to ensure that the
Company's underwriting and pricing guidelines are appropriate.

REINSURANCE ACTIVITY

     The Company cedes premiums to other insurers under various agreements that
cover individual risks, group risks or defined blocks of business, on a
coinsurance and yearly renewable term ("YRT") basis. These reinsurance
agreements spread the risk and minimize the effect of losses. The amount of each
risk retained by the Company depends on its evaluation of the specific risk,
subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum limits based on the
characteristics of coverage. The Company obtains reinsurance when capital
requirements and the economic terms of the reinsurance make it appropriate to do
so.

     Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer agrees to
reimburse the Company for the ceded amount in the event the claim is paid.
However, the Company remains liable to its policyholders with respect to ceded
insurance if any reinsurer fails to meet the obligations assumed by it. Since it
bears the risk of nonpayment by one or more of its reinsurers, the Company cedes
reinsurance to well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers.

     Since 1997, the majority of the Company's universal life business has been
reinsured under an 80% ceded/20% retained YRT quota share reinsurance program
and its term life business has been reinsured under a 90%/10% YRT quota share
reinsurance program. Beginning in September 2002, newly issued term life
business has been reinsured under a 90%/10% coinsurance quota share reinsurance
program. Subsequently, portions of this term coinsurance has reverted to YRT for
new business. Effective May 1, 2005, the Company's quota share programs for YRT
and coinsurance changed to 70%/30%. Within its normal course of business, the
Company may retain up to $5 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in
excess of the Company's retention limits. Generally, the maximum retention on an
ordinary life risk is $2.5 million. Maximum retention of $2.5 million is
generally reached on policies in excess of $12.5 million for universal life and
$25 million for term insurance. Under certain circumstances, the Company may
elect to retain up to $25 million per life. For other plans of insurance, it is
the policy of the Company to obtain reinsurance for amounts above certain
retention limits on individual life policies, which limits vary with age and
underwriting classification. The Company evaluates its reinsurance programs
routinely and may increase or decrease its retention at any time. Placement of
reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative
basis for risks with specific characteristics.

     In addition to reinsuring mortality risk, the Company reinsures other risks
and specific coverages. The Company routinely reinsures certain classes of risks
to limit its exposure to particular travel, avocation and lifestyle hazards. The
Company uses excess of loss and quota share reinsurance arrangements to limit
its maximum loss, provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure
to larger risks.

     The Company reinsures its business through a diversified group of
reinsurers. No single unaffiliated reinsurer has a material obligation to the
Company nor is the Company's business substantially dependent upon any
reinsurance contracts. The Company is contingently liable with respect to ceded
reinsurance should any reinsurer be unable to meet its obligations under these
agreements.

     In 2004, The Travelers Life and Annuity Reinsurance Company ("TLARC") was
formed as a pure captive insurer in order to permit TLAC and TIC to cede 100% of
its risk associated with the secondary death benefit guarantee rider on certain
universal life contracts. TIC dividended TLARC's stock to Citigroup Insurance
Holding Company ("CIHC"), its former parent, in late 2004. As part of the
Acquisition, TLARC became a direct subsidiary of MetLife.

                                        7

REGULATION

  INSURANCE REGULATION

     TLAC is licensed and regulated in 49 states. The extent of such regulation
varies, but most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the financial
aspects of insurers, including standards of solvency, reserves, reinsurance and
capital adequacy, and the business conduct of insurers. In addition, statutes
and regulations usually require the licensing of insurers and their agents, the
approval of policy forms and certain other related materials and, for certain
lines of insurance, the approval of rates. Such statutes and regulations also
prescribe the permitted types and concentration of investments.

     TLAC is required to file reports, generally including detailed annual
financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in each of the
jurisdictions in which it does business, and its operations and accounts are
subject to periodic examination by such authorities. TLAC must also file, and in
many jurisdictions and in some lines of insurance, obtain regulatory approval
for rules, rates and forms relating to the insurance written in the
jurisdictions in which it operates.

     State and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other
state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general from time to time make
inquiries regarding compliance by TLAC with insurance, securities and other laws
and regulations regarding the conduct of its insurance and securities business.
The Company cooperates with such inquiries and takes corrective action when
warranted. See "Legal Proceedings."

     Holding Company Regulation.  TLAC is subject to regulation under the
insurance holding company laws of various jurisdictions. The insurance holding
company laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but
generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that are subsidiaries
of insurance holding companies) to register with state regulatory authorities
and to file with those authorities certain reports, including information
concerning their capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain
intercompany transactions and general business operations.

     State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and limitations
on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance company
subsidiaries to their parent companies, as well as on transactions between an
insurer and its affiliates.

     Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements.  Most of the jurisdictions
in which TLAC transacts business require life insurers doing business within the
jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay
certain contractual insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies
issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy
assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular
state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member
insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed
insurer is engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments
paid through full or partial premium tax offsets.

     In the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against TLAC have
not been material. The Company has established liabilities for guaranty fund
assessments that it considers adequate for assessments with respect to insurers
that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings. See "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Insolvency Assessments."

     Statutory Insurance Examination.  As part of their regulatory oversight
process, state insurance departments conduct periodic detailed examinations of
the books, records, accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in
their states. On January 6, 2006, the Connecticut Insurance Department (the
"Department") completed an examination of TLAC for the period covering January
1, 2000 through December 31, 2004. There were no significant findings.

     Policy and Contract Reserve Sufficiency Analysis.  Under Connecticut State
Insurance Law, annually, TLAC is required to conduct an analysis of the
sufficiency of all life insurance and annuity statutory reserves. In each case,
a qualified actuary must submit an opinion which states that the statutory
reserves, when considered in light of the assets held with respect to such
reserves, make good and sufficient provision for the

                                        8

associated contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer. If such
an opinion cannot be provided, the insurer must set up additional reserves by
moving funds from surplus. Since inception of this requirement, TLAC, which is
required by Connecticut, its state of domicile, to provide these opinions, has
provided such opinions without qualifications.

     Surplus and Capital.  The Connecticut State Insurance Law requires
Connecticut domestic stock life insurers to maintain a minimum level of capital.
At December 31, 2005, TLAC's capital was in excess of such required minimum.

     TLAC is subject to the supervision of the regulators in each jurisdiction
in which it is licensed to transact business. Regulators have discretionary
authority, in connection with the continued licensing of this insurance company,
to limit or prohibit sales to policyholders if, in their judgment, the
regulators determine that such insurer has not maintained the minimum surplus or
capital or that the further transaction of business will be hazardous to
policyholders. See "-- Risk-Based Capital."

 Dividend Restrictions

     Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, TLAC is permitted, without prior
insurance regulatory clearance, to pay shareholder dividends to its parent as
long as the amount of such dividend, when aggregated with all other dividends in
the preceding twelve months, does not exceed the greater of (i) 10% of its
surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii)
its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar
year. TLAC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend in excess of the greater of
such two amounts only if it files notice of its declaration of such a dividend
and the amount thereof with the Commissioner and the Commissioner does not
disapprove the payment within 30 days after notice or until the Commissioner has
approved the dividend, whichever is sooner. In addition, any dividend that
exceeds earned surplus (unassigned funds, reduced by 25% of unrealized
appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on
investments) as of the last filed annual statutory statement requires insurance
regulatory approval. Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, the Commissioner has
broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life
insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its
shareholders. The Connecticut State Insurance Law requires prior approval for
any dividends for a period of two years following a change in control. As a
result of the Acquisition, under Connecticut State Insurance Law all dividend
payments by TLAC through June 30, 2007 require prior approval of the
Commissioner. TLAC did not pay dividends in 2005 or 2004.

     Risk-Based Capital ("RBC").  The Connecticut State Insurance Law requires
that Connecticut domestic life insurers report their RBC based on a formula
calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve
items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer,
including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk. The
Department uses the formula as an early warning regulatory tool to identify
possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory
action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. The Connecticut State
Insurance Law imposes broad confidentiality requirements on those engaged in the
insurance business (including insurers, agents, brokers and others) and on the
Department as to the use and publication of RBC data.

     The Connecticut State Insurance Law gives the Commissioner explicit
regulatory authority to require various actions by, or take various actions
against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not exceed certain RBC
levels. At December 31, 2005, TLAC's total adjusted capital was in excess of
each of those RBC levels.

     The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") adopted the
Codification of Statutory Accounting Principles ("Codification") in 2001.
Codification was intended to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to
state insurance departments. However, statutory accounting principles continue
to be established by individual state laws and permitted practices. The
Department has adopted Codification with certain modifications for the
preparation of statutory financial statements of insurance companies domiciled
in Connecticut. Modifications by the Department may impact the effect of
Codification on the statutory capital and surplus of TLAC.

                                        9

Regulation of Investments.  TLAC is subject to state laws and regulations
that require diversification of their investment portfolios and limit the amount
of investments in certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed
income securities, equity real estate, other equity investments, and
derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause
investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted
assets for purposes of measuring surplus, and, in some instances, would require
divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. The Company believes that its
investments complied with such regulations at December 31, 2005.

     Federal Initiatives.  Although the federal government generally does not
directly regulate the insurance business, federal initiatives often have an
impact on the business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures
are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business, including
the repeal of the federal estate tax and the creation of tax advantaged or tax
exempt savings accounts that would favor short-term savings over long-term
savings. The Company cannot predict whether these initiatives will be adopted as
proposed, or what impact, if any, such proposals may have on the Company's
business, results of operations or financial condition.

     Legislative Developments.  On October 22, 2004, President Bush signed into
law the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which includes changes to
requirements for non-qualified deferred compensation. The Company believes that
the changes to such requirements will not have a material impact on its
non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements.

     Management cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what
legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any such legislation
on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.

COMPANY RATINGS

     Insurer financial strength ratings represent the opinions of rating
agencies regarding the ability of an insurance company to meet its policyholder
financial obligations. TLAC's insurer financial strength ratings as of the date
of this filing are listed in the table below:

                       INSURER FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS

Standard & Poor's(1)              AA (negative outlook)
          Moody's Investors Service(2)      Aa2 (negative outlook)
          A.M. Best Company(3)              A+ (stable outlook)
          Fitch Ratings(4)                  AA (stable outlook)

- ---------------

(1) Standard & Poor's long-term insurer financial strength ratings range from
    "AAA (extremely strong)" to "R (regulatory action)." A "+" or "--" may be
    appended to ratings from "AA" to "CCC" to indicate relative position within
    a category. A rating of "AA" is in the "very strong" category.

(2) Moody's Investors Service long-term insurer financial strength ratings range
    from "Aaa (exceptional)" to "C (extremely poor)." A numeric modifier may be
    appended to ratings from "Aa" to "Caa" to indicate relative position within
    a category, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. A rating of
    "Aa2" is in the "excellent financial security" category.

(3) A.M. Best Company insurer financial strength ratings range from "A++
    (superior)" to "F (in liquidation)." A rating of "A+" is in the "superior"
    category.

(4) Fitch Ratings insurer financial strength ratings range from "AAA
    (exceptionally strong)" to "D (distressed)." A "+" or "--" may be appended
    to ratings from "AA" to "CCC" to indicate relative position within a
    category. A rating of "AA" is in the "very strong" category.

                                        10

RATING STABILITY INDICATORS

     Rating agencies use an "outlook statement" of "positive," "stable" or
"negative" to indicate a medium-or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which,
if continued, may lead to a rating change. These factors may be internal to the
issuer, such as a changing profitability profile, or may be brought about by
changes in the industry's landscape through new competition, regulation or
technological transformation. A rating may have a "stable" outlook to indicate
that the rating is not expected to change. A "stable" rating does not preclude a
rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice.

     The foregoing insurer financial strength ratings reflect each rating
agency's opinion of TLAC's financial characteristics with respect to their
ability to pay obligations under insurance policies and contracts in accordance
with their terms, and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of the
Company's securityholders. Insurer financial strength ratings are not statements
of fact nor are they recommendations to purchase, hold or sell any security,
contract or policy. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other
rating.

     A ratings downgrade (or the potential for such a downgrade) of TLAC could
potentially, among other things, increase the number of policies surrendered and
withdrawals by policyholders of cash values from their policies, adversely
affect relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers, and other
distributors of the Company's products and services, negatively impact new
sales, and adversely affect the Company's ability to compete and thereby have a
material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial
condition.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

CHANGES IN MARKET INTEREST RATES MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY

     Some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance and
fixed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will
reduce our "spread," or the difference between the amounts that we are required
to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are
able to earn on general account investments intended to support obligations
under the contracts. Our spread is a key component of our net income.

     As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to
reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or
sold at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may
prepay or redeem the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and
mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in
order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk. Lowering
interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some
products. However, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by
competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the
timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. As a result, our spread could
decrease or potentially become negative. Our expectation for future spreads is
an important component in the amortization of DAC and VOBA and significantly
lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net
income in the affected reporting period. In addition, during periods of
declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively
more attractive investments to consumers, resulting in increased premium
payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans
and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies
remaining in force from year to year, during a period when our new investments
carry lower returns. A decline in market interest rates could also reduce the
return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations.
Accordingly, declining interest rates may materially adversely affect our
results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly
reduce our profitability.

     Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our
profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be
able to replace, in a timely manner, the assets in our general account with
higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to
keep interest sensitive products competitive. We, therefore, may have to accept
a lower spread and thus lower profitability or face a decline in sales and
greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy
loans, surrenders

                                        11

and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with
higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. This process may result in cash
outflows requiring that we sell invested assets at a time when the prices of
those assets are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates,
which may result in realized investment losses. Unanticipated withdrawals and
terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of DAC and VOBA, which
would increase current expenses and reduce net income. An increase in market
interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our
investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair values of the fixed
income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment
portfolio.

INDUSTRY TRENDS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PROFITABILITY OF OUR BUSINESS

     Our business continues to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect
the insurance industry.

     Financial Environment.  The current financial environment presents a
challenge for the life insurance industry. A low general level of short-term and
long-term interest rates can have a negative impact on the demand for and the
profitability of spread-based products such as fixed annuities and universal
life insurance. In addition, continued low interest rates could put pressure on
interest spreads on existing blocks of business as declining investment
portfolio yields draw closer to minimum crediting rate guarantees on certain
products. The compression of the yields between spread-based products and
interest rates will be a concern until new money rates on corporate bonds are
higher than overall life insurer investment portfolio yields. Recent volatile
equity market performance has also presented challenges for life insurers, as
fee revenue from variable annuities and pension products is tied to separate
account balances, which reflect equity market performance. Also, variable
annuity product demand often mirrors consumer demand for equity market
investments. See "-- Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect
Our Profitability."

     Competitive Pressures.  The life insurance industry is becoming
increasingly competitive. The product development and product life-cycles have
shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with
respect to product features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in
brand equity, product development and risk management, which are among the
fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In
addition, several of the industry's products can be quite homogeneous and
subject to intense price competition, and sufficient scale, financial strength
and flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life
insurance industry. Larger market participants tend to have the capacity to
invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology
needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly
sophisticated industry client base. See "-- Competitive Factors May Adversely
Affect Our Market Share and Profitability."

     Regulatory Changes.  The life insurance industry is regulated at the state
level, with some products also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers
introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital
requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance
industry. Regulations recently adopted or currently under review can potentially
impact the reserve and capital requirements for several of the industry's
products. In addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices
reviews of several markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities,
variable annuities and universal life products. See "-- Our Insurance Business
Is Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Profitability and
Limit Growth" and "Business -- Regulation -- Insurance Regulation."

A DECLINE IN EQUITY MARKETS OR AN INCREASE IN VOLATILITY IN EQUITY MARKETS MAY
ADVERSELY AFFECT SALES OF OUR INVESTMENT PRODUCTS AND OUR PROFITABILITY

     Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in
three principal ways.

     First, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of separate
account products, such as variable annuities and variable life insurance that
have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause some
of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those
products.

                                        12

Second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material
adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our savings and investment
products and services. Because these products and services depend on fees
related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the
equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment
assets we manage. The retail annuity business in particular is highly sensitive
to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the markets will decrease
revenues and earnings in variable annuity products.

     Third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products that
protect policyholders against significant downturns in the equity markets. For
example, we offer variable annuity products with guaranteed features, such as
minimum death benefits, accumulation benefits and withdrawal benefits. These
guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity
market conditions, causing us to increase liabilities for future policy benefits
and negatively affecting net income.

THE PERFORMANCE OF OUR INVESTMENTS DEPENDS ON CONDITIONS THAT ARE OUTSIDE OUR
CONTROL, AND OUR NET INVESTMENT INCOME CAN VARY FROM PERIOD TO PERIOD

     The performance of our investment portfolio depends in part upon the level
of and changes in interest rates, equity prices, real estate values, the
performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors
included in our portfolio and other factors that are beyond our control. Changes
in these factors can affect our net investment income in any period, and such
changes can be substantial.

     We invest a portion of our invested assets in pooled investment funds that
make private equity investments. The amount and timing of income from such
investment funds tend to be uneven as a result of the performance of the
underlying private equity investments, which can be difficult to predict, as
well as the timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular
events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds' schedules
for making distributions and their needs for cash. As a result, the amount of
income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter
to quarter.

COMPETITIVE FACTORS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR MARKET SHARE AND PROFITABILITY

     Our business is subject to intense competition. We believe that this
competition is based on a number of factors, including service, product
features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, e-business
capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large number of other
insurers, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks,
broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, and agents and
other distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of these companies
offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with
respect to other insurers, have higher claims paying ability ratings. Some may
also have greater financial resources with which to compete. National banks,
which may sell annuity products of life insurers in some circumstances, also
have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products.

     In addition, investment management and securities brokerage businesses have
relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. Many of
our competitors in these businesses also offer a broad array of investment
products and services and are also well known as sellers of annuities and other
investment products.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN SALES RELATIONSHIPS FOR OUR PRODUCTS

     We must attract and retain productive sales relationships to sell our
insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong competition exists among
insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with
other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial
position, support services and compensation and product features. We cannot
provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in attracting and
retaining new agents. Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment
products and our results of operations and financial condition could be
materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining
agents.

                                        13

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN ACTUAL CLAIMS EXPERIENCE AND UNDERWRITING AND RESERVING
ASSUMPTIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS

     Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual
claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices
for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and
claims. Our liabilities for future policyholder benefits and claims are
established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for
future benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we
calculate these liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including
estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the
timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or
claims to be paid and the investment returns on the assets we purchase with the
premiums we receive. To the extent that actual claims experience is less
favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such
liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities.

     Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future
policyholder benefits and claims we cannot determine precisely the amounts which
we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the
estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well
into the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on changes in
the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual
experience. We charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the
period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. If the liabilities
originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must
increase them. Such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

METLIFE'S RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MAY LEAVE US EXPOSED TO
UNIDENTIFIED OR UNANTICIPATED RISK, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS

     Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other
things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of
transactions and events. MetLife has devoted significant resources to develop
risk management policies and procedures for itself and its subsidiaries, and
expects to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, these policies and
procedures may not be fully effective. Many of MetLife's methods for managing
risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior
or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not
predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than historical
measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of
information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters
that is publicly available or otherwise accessible. This information may not
always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. See
"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

CATASTROPHES MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT LIABILITIES FOR POLICYHOLDER CLAIMS AND
REINSURANCE AVAILABILITY

     Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic
mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of
deaths. Significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last
century, but neither the likelihood, timing nor the severity of a future
pandemic can be predicted. The effectiveness of external parties, including
governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and
severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses
experienced by us. These events could cause a material adverse effect on our
results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also
materially and adversely affect our financial condition.

     The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total
amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of
the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however,
pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce
significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated.
Claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause
substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year
and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition.
Also, catastrophic events could

                                        14

harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the
probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new
business could also be affected.

     Consistent with industry practices and accounting standards, we establish
liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the
probable losses arising from the event. We cannot be certain that the
liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim
liabilities. While we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels,
subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a
catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

A DOWNGRADE OR A POTENTIAL DOWNGRADE IN OUR FINANCIAL STRENGTH OR THAT OF
METLIFE'S OTHER INSURANCE SUBSIDIARIES OR METLIFE'S CREDIT RATINGS COULD RESULT
IN A LOSS OF BUSINESS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

     Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized Statistical
Rating Organizations publish as indicators of an insurance company's ability to
meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining
public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products and our
competitive position.

     Following the announcement of the Acquisition, TLAC's financial strength
rating was lowered one notch and placed on "negative" outlook, rather than the
former "stable" outlook by certain rating agencies. We do not expect that all
ratings will return to "stable" until such time as MetLife has established, to
the sole satisfaction of each agency, clear evidence of the successful
integration of the Travelers businesses and that MetLife is reducing its
financial leverage to levels closer to that which existed prior to the
Acquisition. We believe the negative impact of these downgrades on our financial
results was immaterial. However, further downgrades in these financial strength
ratings, or an announced potential for a downgrade, could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many
ways, including:

     - reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment
       products;

     - adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and
       independent sales intermediaries;

     - materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and
       withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;

     - requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to
       remain competitive;

     - adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable
       prices or at all;

     - adversely affecting our relationships with credit counterparties.

IF OUR BUSINESS DOES NOT PERFORM WELL OR IF ACTUAL EXPERIENCE VERSUS ESTIMATES
USED IN VALUING AND AMORTIZING DAC AND VOBA VARY SIGNIFICANTLY, WE MAY BE
REQUIRED TO ACCELERATE THE AMORTIZATION AND/OR IMPAIR THE DAC AND VOBA WHICH
COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION

     The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
renewal business. Those costs that vary with and are primarily related to the
production of new and renewal business are deferred and referred to as DAC. The
recovery of DAC is dependent upon the future profitability of the related
business. The amount of future profit is dependent principally on investment
returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality,
morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the
business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic
variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that
investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such
costs. The aforementioned factors enter into management's estimates of gross
profits, which generally are used to amortize such costs. If the estimates of
gross profits were overstated, then the amortization of such costs would be
accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a
charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or financial condition.

                                        15

VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in a life
insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of the purchase price
that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from
the insurance and annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. VOBA is
based on actuarially determined projections. Actual experience may vary from the
projections. Revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in
the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in an
impairment and a charge to income. Also, as VOBA is amortized similarly to DAC,
an acceleration of the amortization of the VOBA would occur if the estimates of
gross profits were overstated. Accordingly, the amortization of such costs would
be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would
result in a charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations or financial condition.

IF OUR BUSINESS DOES NOT PERFORM WELL, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO ESTABLISH A
VALUATION ALLOWANCE AGAINST THE DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSET OR TO RECOGNIZE AN
IMPAIRMENT OF OUR GOODWILL, ESTABLISHED AT THE ACQUISITION, WHICH COULD
ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION.

     As a result of the Acquisition, we recognized a deferred income tax asset
of approximately $100 million and established goodwill of approximately $243
million.

     The deferred income tax asset was recorded upon acquisition as a result of
an election made under Internal Revenue Code Section 338. This election resulted
in a step-up in tax basis of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed upon
the Acquisition. The realizability of the deferred tax asset is assessed
periodically by management. If based on available information, it is more likely
than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a
valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net
income.

     Goodwill was established as the excess of cost over the fair value of net
assets acquired. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment. Impairment
testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the "reporting
unit" to which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating
segment, or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete
financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that
level. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of
the business. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must
write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding
charge to net income.

DEFAULTS, DOWNGRADES OR OTHER EVENTS IMPAIRING THE VALUE OF OUR FIXED MATURITY
SECURITIES PORTFOLIO MAY REDUCE OUR EARNINGS

     We are subject to the risk that the issuers of the fixed maturity
securities we own may default on principal and interest payments owed to us. At
December 31, 2005, fixed maturity securities of $6 billion in our investment
portfolio represented 86% of our total cash and invested assets. The occurrence
of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance or other events that
adversely affect the issuers of these securities could cause the value of our
fixed maturities portfolio and our net earnings to decline and the default rate
of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A
ratings downgrade affecting particular issuers or securities could also have a
similar effect. With recent downgrades, as well as economic uncertainty and
increasing interest rates, credit quality of issuers could be adversely
affected. Any event reducing the value of these securities other than on a
temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

  DEFAULTS ON OUR MORTGAGE LOANS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY

     Our mortgage loan investments face default risk. Our mortgage loans are
principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential
properties. At December 31, 2005, our mortgage loan investments of $258 million
represented 4% of our total cash and invested assets. At December 31, 2005,
there were no mortgage loans that were either delinquent or in the process of
foreclosure. The performance of our mortgage loan investments, however, may
fluctuate in the future. In addition, the majority of our mortgage loan
investments have balloon payment maturities. An increase in the default rate of
our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

                                        16

SOME OF OUR INVESTMENTS ARE RELATIVELY ILLIQUID

     Our investments in privately placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage
loans and other limited partnership interests are relatively illiquid. These
asset classes represented 21% of the carrying value of our total cash and
invested assets as of December 31, 2005. If we require significant amounts of
cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements, we may have
difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them
for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both.

FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES AND FOREIGN SECURITIES MARKETS
COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY

     We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-U.S.
dollar denominated securities. If the currencies of the non-U.S. dollar
denominated securities we hold in our investment portfolios decline against the
U.S. dollar, our investment returns, and thus our profitability, may be
adversely affected. Although we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts
to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance
that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties will perform
their obligations.

  REINSURANCE MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE, AFFORDABLE OR ADEQUATE TO PROTECT US AGAINST
  LOSSES

     As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance
for certain risks. See "Business -- Reinsurance Activity." While life
reinsurance generally binds the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured
at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the
availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. In certain
circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also
increase. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of
loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the
amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to
incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain
sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our
ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with
respect to those policies we issue.

     As a result of consolidation of the life reinsurance market and other
market factors, capacity in the life reinsurance market has decreased. Further,
life reinsurance is currently available at higher prices and on less favorable
terms than those prevailing between 1997 and 2003. Further consolidation,
regulatory developments, catastrophic events or other significant developments
affecting the pricing and availability of reinsurance could materially harm the
reinsurance market and our ability to enter into reinsurance contracts.

  IF THE COUNTERPARTIES TO OUR REINSURANCE ARRANGEMENTS OR TO THE DERIVATIVE
  INSTRUMENTS WE USE TO HEDGE OUR BUSINESS RISKS DEFAULT OR FAIL TO PERFORM, WE
  MAY BE EXPOSED TO RISKS WE HAD SOUGHT TO MITIGATE, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY
  ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     We use reinsurance and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in
various circumstances. In general, reinsurance does not relieve us of direct
liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.
Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. We cannot
provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed
to us now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely
basis. A reinsurer's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments
under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

     In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks.
We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards,
interest rate and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. If such
counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative
instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. While the
Company holds collateral against certain derivative instruments, a failure by
counterparties to honor their obligations could have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition and results of operations.

                                        17

OUR INSURANCE BUSINESS IS HEAVILY REGULATED, AND CHANGES IN REGULATION MAY
  REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY AND LIMIT OUR GROWTH

     Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and
other laws and regulations. State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our
insurance business, and TLAC is regulated by the Department, the insurance
regulatory body of the state in which TLAC is domiciled, as well as the states
in which TLAC is licensed. See "Business -- Regulation -- Insurance Regulation."

     State laws in the United States grant insurance regulatory authorities
broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:

     - licensing companies and agents to transact business;

     - calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory
       requirements;

     - mandating certain insurance benefits;

     - regulating certain premium rates;

     - reviewing and approving policy forms;

     - regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the
       imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution
       arrangements and payment of inducements;

     - regulating advertising;

     - protecting privacy;

     - establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency
       standards;

     - fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates
       for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity
       contracts;

     - approving changes in control of insurance companies;

     - restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between
       affiliates;

     - regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.

     State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance
companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of
insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Because the amount
and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have
currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. See
"Business-Regulation-Insurance Regulation-Guaranty Associations and Similar
Arrangements."

     State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws
and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in
these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for
the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

     The NAIC and several states' legislatures have recently considered the need
for regulations and/or laws to address agent or broker practices that have been
the focus of recent investigations of broker compensation in various
jurisdictions. The NAIC has adopted a Compensation Disclosure Amendment to its
Producers Licensing Model Act which, if adopted by the states, would require
disclosure by agents or brokers to customers that insurers will compensate such
agents or brokers for the placement of insurance and documented acknowledgement
of this arrangement in cases where the customer also compensates the agent or
broker. Several states have recently enacted laws similar to the NAIC amendment.
Some other states, including California and New York, are considering additional
provisions that would require the disclosure of the amount of compensation
and/or require (where an agent or broker represents more than one insurer)
placement of the "best coverage." We cannot predict how many states, if any, may
promulgate the NAIC amendment or similar regulations or the extent to which
these regulations may have a material adverse impact on our business.
                                        18

Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the
business of insurance. However, federal legislation and administrative policies
in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies.
These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation,
pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition,
various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed.
These proposals include "The State Modernization and Regulatory Transparency
Act," which would maintain state-based regulation of insurance, but would affect
state regulation of certain aspects of the business of insurance, including
rates, agent and company licensing and market conduct examinations. We cannot
predict whether this or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any,
such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.

     Many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate in
regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that affect their operations
also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to
purchase or distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

     Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and
personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially
increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing
business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations.

     From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of
TLAC that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We
cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could
adversely affect our operations. In addition, the interpretations of regulations
by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact,
particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements.

  LEGAL AND REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS AND ACTIONS ARE INCREASINGLY COMMON IN THE
  INSURANCE BUSINESS AND MAY RESULT IN FINANCIAL LOSSES AND HARM TO OUR
  REPUTATION

     We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and
actions in the ordinary course of operating our business, including the risk of
class action lawsuits. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include
proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices
in the industries in which we operate. In connection with our insurance
operations, plaintiffs' lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and
individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or
underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design,
disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a
periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other
duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us
may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble
damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable
liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. See
"Legal Proceedings."

     Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and
the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally
be inherently impossible to ascertain with any degree of certainty. Inherent
uncertainties can include how fact finders will view individually and in their
totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of witnesses'
testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context
of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial
or on appeal. Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how
opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence
and applicable law.

     On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information with
respect to liabilities for litigation and contingencies to be reflected in our
consolidated financial statements. The review includes senior legal and
financial personnel. Unless stated elsewhere herein, estimates of possible
additional losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the
ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty. See "Legal
Proceedings." Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. It is
possible that some of the matters could require us to pay damages or make other
expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated as of
December 31, 2005.
                                        19

We are subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information
requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal
regulators and other authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant
regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even if we
ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we
could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including
our ability to attract new customers and retain our current customers.

     Recently, the insurance industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny
by regulatory and law enforcement authorities. This scrutiny includes the
commencement of investigations and other proceedings relating to allegations of
improper conduct in connection with the payment of, and disclosure with respect
to, contingent commissions paid by insurance companies to intermediaries, the
solicitation and provision of fictitious or inflated quotes, the use of
inducements in the sale of insurance products and the accounting treatment for
finite insurance and reinsurance or other non-traditional or loss mitigation
insurance and reinsurance products.

     One possible result of these investigations and attendant lawsuits is that
many insurance industry practices and customs may change, including, but not
limited to, the manner in which insurance is marketed and distributed through
independent brokers and agents. We cannot predict how industry regulation with
respect to the use of such independent brokers and agents may change. Such
changes, however, could adversely affect our ability to implement our business
strategy, which could materially affect our growth and profitability.

     Recent industry-wide inquiries also include those regarding market timing
and late trading in mutual funds and variable insurance products and, generally,
the marketing of products. In the past, we have received inquiries regarding
market timing and other matters from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
("SEC").

     In August 1999, an amended putative class action complaint was filed in
Connecticut state court against TLAC, Travelers Equity Sales, Inc. and certain
former affiliates. The amended complaint alleges Travelers Property Casualty
Corporation, a former TLAC affiliate, purchased structured settlement annuities
from TLAC and spent less on the purchase of those structured settlement
annuities than agreed with claimants, and that commissions paid to brokers for
the structured settlement annuities, including an affiliate of TLAC, were paid
in part to Travelers Property Casualty Corporation. On May 26, 2004, the
Connecticut Superior Court certified a nationwide class action involving the
following claims against TLAC: (i) violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade
Practice Statute; (ii) unjust enrichment; and (iii) civil conspiracy. On June
15, 2004, the defendants appealed the class certification order. The Company has
recently learned that the Connecticut Supreme Court has reversed the trial
court's certification of a class. Plaintiff may file a motion with respect to
the order and may seek upon remand to the trial court to file another motion for
class certification. The Company and Travelers Equity Sales, Inc. intend to
continue to vigorously defend the matter.

     We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation, unasserted claims
probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us will not
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results
of operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation,
unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be
commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations
and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In
addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or
proceedings could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide
regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

  CHANGES IN U.S. FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS AND REGULATIONS MAY AFFECT
  OUR OPERATIONS AND OUR PROFITABILITY

     Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance
products that are also "securities," including variable annuity contracts and
variable life insurance policies. As a result, we and some of our
                                        20

subsidiaries and our activities in offering and selling variable insurance
contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these
securities laws. We issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance
policies through separate accounts that are registered with the SEC as
investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Each
registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of
which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered
investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. In
addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies
issued by the separate accounts are registered with the SEC under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended. Other subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as
broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are
members of, and subject to, regulation by the NASD. Further, some of our
subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and are also registered as
investment advisers in various states, as applicable.

     Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to
ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the
securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients.
These laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking
and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of
business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. Changes
to these laws or regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations. In particular, changes in the regulations governing the registration
and distribution of variable insurance products, such as changes in the
regulatory standards under which the sale of a variable annuity contract or
variable life insurance policy is considered suitable for a particular customer,
could have such a material adverse effect.

  CHANGES IN TAX LAWS COULD MAKE SOME OF OUR PRODUCTS LESS ATTRACTIVE TO
  CONSUMERS

     Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to
consumers. For example, reductions in the federal income tax that investors are
required to pay on long-term capital gains and on some dividends paid on stock
may provide an incentive for some of our customers and potential customers to
shift assets into mutual funds and away from products, including life insurance
and annuities, designed to defer taxes payable on investment returns. Because
the income taxes payable on long-term capital gains and some dividends paid on
stock have been reduced, investors may decide that the tax-deferral benefits of
annuity contracts are less advantageous than the potential after-tax income
benefits of mutual funds or other investment products that provide dividends and
long-term capital gains. A shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts
and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from sales of these
products, as well as the assets upon which we earn investment income.

     We cannot predict whether any other legislation will be enacted, what the
specific terms of any such legislation will be or how, if at all, this
legislation or any other legislation could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

  THE CONTINUED THREAT OF TERRORISM AND ONGOING MILITARY ACTIONS MAY ADVERSELY
  AFFECT THE LEVEL OF CLAIM LOSSES INCURRED AND THE VALUE OF OUR INVESTMENT
  PORTFOLIO

     The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States and
abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in
response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global
financial markets and result in loss of life, additional disruptions to commerce
and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio
may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced economic
activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. Our management cannot
predict whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain
investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic
disruptions, or how any such disruptions might affect the ability of those
companies to pay interest or principal on their securities. The continued threat
of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced
insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we
otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices.
Terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the United
States. In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher
claims under our insurance policies than anticipated.
                                        21

THE OCCURRENCE OF EVENTS UNANTICIPATED IN METLIFE'S DISASTER RECOVERY SYSTEMS
  AND MANAGEMENT CONTINUITY PLANNING COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT
  BUSINESS EFFECTIVELY

     As part of the post-merger integration, the Company has migrated certain
data onto MetLife applications and platforms. The Company continues to utilize
and rely on administrative systems maintained on Citigroup platforms. In the
event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a
blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems
with MetLife's or Citigroup's disaster recovery systems could have a material
adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of
operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our
computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and
destroy valuable data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide
reliable service. Despite implementation of a variety of security measures,
computer servers could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and
similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with the computer systems. In
addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were
unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct
business could be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere
with our suppliers' ability to provide goods and services and the ability of the
employees who serve us to perform their job responsibilities.

ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

     Not applicable.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The Company's executive offices are located in Hartford, Connecticut. The
Company and TIC occupy 373,000 square feet at One Cityplace, Hartford,
Connecticut under an operating lease (in which TIC is the lessee) that runs
through October 31, 2008.

     Management believes that its properties are suitable and adequate for the
Company's current and anticipated business operations.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is a defendant in a number of litigation matters. In some of
the matters, indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are
sought. Modern pleading practice in the United States permits considerable
variation in the assertion of monetary damages or other relief. Jurisdictions
may permit claimants not to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit
claimants to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the
jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition, jurisdictions may permit
plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well exceeding reasonably
possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for similar matters. This variability in
pleadings, together with the actual experience of the Company in litigating or
resolving through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of time,
demonstrate to management that the monetary relief which may be specified in a
lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to its merits or disposition value.
Thus, unless stated below, the specific monetary relief sought is not noted.

     Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and
the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally
be inherently impossible to ascertain with any degree of certainty. Inherent
uncertainties can include how fact finders will view individually and in their
totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of witnesses'
testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context
of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial
or on appeal. Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how
opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence
and applicable law.

     The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and regulatory
investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is
difficult to estimate the impact on the Company's consolidated financial
position. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant
information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory
investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the
Company's consolidated financial statements. The review includes senior legal
and financial personnel. Unless stated

                                        22

below, estimates of possible additional losses or ranges of loss for particular
matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of
certainty. The limitations of available data and uncertainty regarding numerous
variables make it difficult to estimate liabilities. Liabilities are established
when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can
be reasonably estimated. It is possible that some of the matters could require
the Company to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in
amounts that could not be estimated as of December 31, 2005. Furthermore, it is
possible that an adverse outcome in certain of the Company's litigation and
regulatory investigations, or the use of different assumptions in the
determination of amounts recorded, could have a material effect upon the
Company's consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
annual periods.

     In August 1999, an amended putative class action complaint was filed in
Connecticut state court against TLAC, Travelers Equity Sales, Inc. and certain
former affiliates. The amended complaint alleges Travelers Property Casualty
Corporation, a former TLAC affiliate, purchased structured settlement annuities
from TLAC and spent less on the purchase of those structured settlement
annuities than agreed with claimants, and that commissions paid to brokers for
the structured settlement annuities, including an affiliate of TLAC, were paid
in part to Travelers Property Casualty Corporation. On May 26, 2004, the
Connecticut Superior Court certified a nationwide class action involving the
following claims against TLAC: (i) violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade
Practice Statute; (ii) unjust enrichment; and (iii) civil conspiracy. On June
15, 2004, the defendants appealed the class certification order. The Company has
recently learned that the Connecticut Supreme Court has reversed the trial
court's certification of a class. Plaintiff may file a motion with respect to
the order and may seek upon remand to the trial court to file another motion for
class certification. The Company and Travelers Equity Sales, Inc. intend to
continue to vigorously defend the matter.

     Regulatory bodies have contacted the Company and have requested information
relating to market timing and late trading of mutual funds and variable
insurance products and, generally, the marketing of such products. The Company
believes that many of these inquiries are similar to those made to many
financial services companies as part of industry-wide investigations by various
regulatory agencies. In addition, like many insurance companies and agencies in
2004 and 2005, the Company received inquiries from certain state Departments of
Insurance regarding producer compensation and bidding practices. The Company is
fully cooperating with regard to these information requests and investigations.
The Company at the present is not aware of any systemic problems with respect to
such matters that have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position.

     In addition, the Company is a defendant or co-defendant in various other
litigation matters in the normal course of business. These may include civil
actions, arbitration proceedings and other matters arising in the normal course
of business out of activities as an insurance company or otherwise. Further,
state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities
may make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Company's
compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations.

     In the opinion of the Company's management, the ultimate resolution of
these legal and regulatory proceedings would not be likely to have a material
adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition or liquidity,
but, if involving monetary liability, may be material to the Company's operating
results for any particular period.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Omitted pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(c) of Form 10-K.

                                        23

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
         ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

     TLAC has 30,000 authorized shares of common stock, all of which were issued
and outstanding as of December 31, 2005. All such shares are held by TIC, and
there exists no established public trading market for the common equity of the
Company. On July 1, 2005, MetLife acquired TIC from Citigroup. The payment of
dividends and other distributions by the Company is regulated by insurance laws
and regulations.

     Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, TLAC is permitted, without prior
insurance regulatory clearance, to pay shareholder dividends to its parent as
long as the amount of such dividend, when aggregated with all other dividends in
the preceding twelve months, does not exceed the greater of (i) 10% of its
surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii)
its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar
year. TLAC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend in excess of the greater of
such two amounts only if it files notice of its declaration of such a dividend
and the amount thereof with the Commissioner and the Commissioner does not
disapprove the payment within 30 days after notice or until the Commissioner has
approved the dividend, whichever is sooner. In addition, any dividend that
exceeds earned surplus (unassigned funds, reduced by 25% of unrealized
appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on
investments) as of the last filed annual statutory statement requires insurance
regulatory approval. Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, the Commissioner has
broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life
insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its
shareholders. The Connecticut State Insurance Law requires prior approval for
any dividends for a period of two years following a change in control. As a
result of the Acquisition, under Connecticut State Insurance Law all dividend
payments by TLAC through June 30, 2007 require prior approval of the
Commissioner. TLAC did not pay dividends in 2005 or 2004.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     Omitted pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

     Management's narrative analysis of the results of operations of The
Travelers Life and Annuity Company ("TLAC" together with its subsidiaries, the
"Company"), is presented in lieu of Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"), pursuant to General
Instruction I(2)(a) of Form 10-K. This discussion should be read in conjunction
with the Company's consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein.

     This narrative analysis contains statements which constitute
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements relating to trends in the
operations and financial results and the business and the products of the
Company, as well as other statements including words such as "anticipate,"
"believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend" and other similar expressions.
Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations
and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on the
Company. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future
performance.

     Actual results may differ materially from those included in the
forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but
not limited to, the following: (i) changes in general economic conditions,
including the performance of financial markets and interest rates; (ii)
heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new
competitors and the development of new products by new and existing competitors;
(iii) unanticipated changes in industry trends; (iv) catastrophe losses; (v)
adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory
investigations; (vi) regulatory, accounting or tax changes that may affect the
cost of, or demand for, the Company's products or services; (vii) downgrades in
the Company's and its affiliates' claims paying ability or financial strength
ratings; (viii) changes in rating agency policies or practices; (ix)
discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in

                                        24

setting prices for the Company's products and establishing the liabilities for
the Company's obligations for future policy benefits and claims; (x)
discrepancies between actual experience and assumptions used in establishing
liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations; (xi) the effects of
business disruption or economic contraction due to terrorism or other
hostilities; (xii) changes in results of the Company arising from the
acquisition by MetLife, Inc. ("MetLife") and integration of its businesses into
MetLife's operations; and (xiii) other risks and uncertainties described from
time to time in TLAC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
("SEC"). The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise
any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future
developments or otherwise.

THE ACQUISITION

     On July 1, 2005 (the "Acquisition Date"), the Travelers Insurance Company
("TIC") became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, a leading provider of
insurance and other financial services to millions of individual and
institutional customers throughout the United States. Outside the United States,
the MetLife companies have direct insurance operations in Asia Pacific, Latin
America and Europe.

     On the Acquisition Date, TLAC and other affiliated entities, including the
Company's parent, TIC, and substantially all of Citigroup Inc.'s ("Citigroup")
international insurance businesses, and excluding Primerica Life Insurance
Company and its subsidiaries ("Primerica") (collectively, "Travelers"), were
acquired by MetLife from Citigroup (the "Acquisition") for $12.0 billion.
Consideration paid to Citigroup will be finalized subject to review of the June
30, 2005 financial statements of Travelers by both MetLife and Citigroup and
interpretation of the provisions of the acquisition agreement, dated as of
January 31, 2005 between MetLife and Citigroup (the "Acquisition Agreement"), by
both parties.

ECONOMIC CAPITAL

     Economic Capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose
of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon
which capital is deployed. The Economic Capital model accounts for the unique
and specific nature of the risks inherent in the Company's business. As part of
the economic capital process, a portion of net investment income is credited to
the Company's business based on the level of allocated equity. This is in
contrast to the standardized regulatory RBC formula, which is not as refined in
its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of the Company's business.

SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") requires
management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that
affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most
critical estimates include those used in determining: (i) investment
impairments; (ii) the fair value of investments in the absence of quoted market
values; (iii) application of the consolidation rules to certain investments;
(iv) the fair value of and accounting for derivatives; (v) the capitalization
and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC") and the
establishment and amortization of value of business acquired ("VOBA"); (vi) the
measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any; (vii) the liability for
future policyholder benefits; (viii) accounting for reinsurance transactions and
(ix) the liability for litigation and regulatory matters. The application of
purchase accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the
fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed -- the most
significant of which relate to the aforementioned critical estimates. In
applying these policies, management makes subjective and complex judgments that
frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many
of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance
and financial services industries; others are specific to the Company's business
and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

  INVESTMENTS

     The Company's principal investments are in fixed maturities, mortgage loans
on real estate and other limited partnerships, all of which are exposed to three
primary sources of investment risk: credit, interest rate and market valuation.
The financial statement risks are those associated with the recognition of
impairments
                                        25

and income, as well as the determination of fair values. The assessment of
whether impairments have occurred is based on management's case-by-case
evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. Management
considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses its best
judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of
the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in
management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the
operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used
by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited
to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been
below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities
when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the
potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the
potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic
locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer,
series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has
exhausted natural resources; (vi) the Company's ability and intent to hold the
security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value
to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost; (vii) unfavorable
changes in forecasted cash flows on asset-backed securities; and (viii) other
subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from
regulators and rating agencies. In addition, the earnings on certain investments
are dependent upon market conditions, which could result in prepayments and
changes in amounts to be earned due to changing interest rates or equity
markets. The determination of fair values in the absence of quoted market values
is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities the Company deems to
be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances.
The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on
the estimated fair value amounts. In addition, the Company enters into certain
limited partnerships for which the Company may be deemed to be the primary
beneficiary and, therefore, may be required to consolidate such investments. The
accounting rules for the determination of the primary beneficiary are complex
and require evaluation of the contractual rights and obligations associated with
each party involved in the entity, an estimate of the entity's expected losses
and expected residual returns and the allocation of such estimates to each
party.

  DERIVATIVES

     The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions primarily to
manage the risk associated with variability in cash flows or changes in fair
values related to the Company's financial assets and liabilities. The Company
also purchases investment securities, issues certain insurance policies and
engages in certain reinsurance contracts that have embedded derivatives. The
associated financial statement risk is the volatility in net income which can
result from (i) changes in fair value of derivatives not qualifying as
accounting hedges; (ii) ineffectiveness of designated hedges; and (iii)
counterparty default. In addition, there is a risk that embedded derivatives
requiring bifurcation are not identified and reported at fair value in the
consolidated financial statements. Accounting for derivatives is complex, as
evidenced by significant authoritative interpretations of the primary accounting
standards which continue to evolve, as well as the significant judgments and
estimates involved in determining fair value in the absence of quoted market
values. These estimates are based on valuation methodologies and assumptions
deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Such assumptions include estimated
volatility and interest rates used in the determination of fair value where
quoted market values are not available. The use of different assumptions may
have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

  DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS AND VALUE OF BUSINESS ACQUIRED

     The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
renewal insurance business. These costs, which vary with and are primarily
related to the production of that business, are deferred. The recovery of DAC
and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The
amount of future profit is dependent principally on investment returns in excess
of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency,
interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness
of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation.
Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns are most
likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned
factors enter into management's estimates of gross profits, which generally are
used to
                                        26

amortize such costs. VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force
contracts in a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of
the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future
cash flows from the insurance and annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition
date. VOBA is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of
business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and
morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses,
investment returns and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased
business may vary from these projections. Revisions to estimates result in
changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions
are made and could result in the impairment of the asset and a charge to income
if estimated future gross profits are less than amounts deferred. In addition,
the Company utilizes the reversion to the mean assumption, a common industry
practice, in its determination of the amortization of DAC and VOBA. This
practice assumes that the expectation for long-term appreciation in equity
markets is not changed by minor short-term market fluctuations, but that it does
change when large interim deviations have occurred.

  GOODWILL

     Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired.
The Company tests goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently
if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate,
indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test.
Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires
the use of estimates and judgment, at the "reporting unit" level. If the
carrying value of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its fair value, the excess
is recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income. The
fair values of the reporting units are determined using a market multiple or
discounted cash flow model. The critical estimates necessary in determining fair
value are projected earnings, comparative market multiples and the discount
rate.

  LIABILITY FOR FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS

     The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance
policies, including traditional life insurance and traditional annuities.
Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and liabilities
are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with
GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the
establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, expenses,
persistency, investment returns and inflation. Utilizing these assumptions,
liabilities are established on a block of business basis.

     Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing
these policies and in the establishment of liabilities result in variances in
profit and could result in losses. The effects of changes in such estimated
liabilities are included in the results of operations in the period in which the
changes occur.

  REINSURANCE

     The Company enters into reinsurance transactions as a purchaser of
reinsurance. Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions
and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying
business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company
periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the
aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to
ceded reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its
reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security
impairment process discussed previously. Additionally, for each of its
reinsurance contracts, the Company must determine if the contract provides
indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in
accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company must review all
contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance
risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely
reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a reinsurance contract
does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss
from insurance risk, the Company records the contract using the deposit method
of accounting.

                                        27

LITIGATION

     The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and regulatory
investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is
difficult to estimate the impact on the Company's consolidated financial
position. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant
information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory
investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the
Company's consolidated financial statements. The review includes senior legal
and financial personnel. Estimates of possible additional losses or ranges of
loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a
reasonable degree of certainty. The limitations of available data and
uncertainty regarding numerous variables make it difficult to estimate
liabilities. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. It is
possible that some of the matters could require the Company to pay damages or
make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be
estimated as of December 31, 2005. Furthermore, it is possible that an adverse
outcome in certain of the Company's litigation and regulatory investigations, or
the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded, could
have a material effect upon the Company's consolidated net income or cash flows
in particular quarterly or annual periods.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

     In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
141, Business Combinations, and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets, the Acquisition is being accounted for by MetLife using the purchase
method of accounting, which requires that the assets and liabilities of the
Company be identified and measured at their fair value as of the Acquisition
Date. As required by SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 54, Push Down Basis of
Accounting in Financial Statements of a Subsidiary, the purchase method of
accounting applied by MetLife to the acquired assets and liabilities associated
with the Company has been "pushed down" to the consolidated financial statements
of the Company, thereby establishing a new basis of accounting. This new basis
of accounting is referred to as the "successor basis" while the historical basis
of accounting is referred to as the "predecessor basis." Consolidated financial
statements included herein for periods prior and subsequent to the Acquisition
Date are labeled "predecessor" and "successor," respectively.

     The establishment of a new basis of accounting resulted in significant fair
value adjustments related to certain invested assets not already carried at
their fair value, DAC, VOBA, future policy benefits and policyholder account
balances and the establishment of goodwill. Additionally, MetLife made an
election under Internal Revenue Code Section 338 to adjust the income tax bases
of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed which resulted in the
establishment of a deferred income tax asset. Period over period comparisons are
impacted by such adjustments.

     In connection with the Acquisition, MetLife filed with the Connecticut
Insurance Department (the "Department") an Amended and Restated Form A Statement
Regarding the Acquisition of Control of or Merger with a Domestic Insurer, dated
April 19, 2005 (the "Form A"), seeking the approval of the Department to acquire
control of the Company. The Form A was approved by the Department on June 30,
2005. The Form A includes MetLife's post-Acquisition business plan and financial
projections for the Company after the closing date. The Company may phase out
the issuance of products that it currently is selling by the end of 2006 which
may, over time, result in fewer assets and liabilities. The Company may,
however, determine to introduce new products in the future.

DISCUSSION OF RESULTS

     For purposes of management's narrative analysis of the results of
operations only, the pro forma combined results of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2005 discussed below represents the mathematical addition of the
historical results for the predecessor period from January 1, 2005 through June
30, 2005 and the successor period from July 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005.
This approach is not consistent with GAAP and yields results that are not
comparable on a period-over-period basis due to the new basis of accounting
established at the Acquisition Date. However, management believes it is the most
meaningful way

                                        28

to comment on the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005
compared to the year ended December 31, 2004.

     The Company's results of operations are as follows:

Net Income

     Net income decreased by $32 million, or 20%, to $126 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005 from $158 million in the comparable 2004 period.

     This decline is largely attributable to the increase in net investment
losses of $42 million, net of income taxes, resulting principally from the
repositioning of the Company's investment portfolio subsequent to the
Acquisition.

     An increase in other expenses of $34 million, net of income taxes, in 2005
also contributed to the year-over-year decline in net income. This increase in
expenses is generally attributable to changes in the capitalization and
amortization of DAC, as more fully described below, offset by a reduction of
other expenses, principally commissions due to lower life and annuity sales.

     Policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $39 million, net of income
taxes, primarily resulting from unfavorable mortality in life insurance products
of $18 million, net of income taxes, and a charge in the current period of $20
million, net of income taxes, for the establishment of an excess mortality
reserve related to a group of policies, as described below, decreased earnings.

     These results were partially offset by an increase in universal life and
investment-type product policy fee income of $61 million, net of income taxes.
This increase is largely due to favorable market conditions and an increase in
average account values.

     Additionally, a decrease in interest credited to policyholder account
balances of $28 million, net of income taxes, resulted primarily from the
revaluation of the policyholder balance through the application of

                                        29

the purchase method of accounting and lower crediting rates partially offset by
the growth in policyholder account values.

     Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $47 million, or
27% of income before provision for income taxes, compared with $49 million, or
24%, for the comparable 2004 period. The 2005 and 2004 effective tax rates
differ from the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of
non-taxable income. In addition, the 2004 effective tax rate reflects a tax
benefit related to the release of certain tax reserves related to non-taxable
investment income.

Total Revenues

     Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses), increased by $85
million, or 10%, to $904 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from $819
million for the comparable 2004 period.

     Premiums decreased $3 million or 8%, to $37 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005 from $40 million for the comparable 2004 period due to a
decrease in traditional life sales offset by higher premiums on individual
annuities primarily due to higher sales.

     Universal life and investment-type product policy fees for universal life
and variable annuity products increased by $83 million, or 22%, which is largely
attributable to the impact of favorable market performance and increase in
average account values during 2005.

     Net investment income on fixed maturities was relatively unchanged. Net
investment income on fixed maturities was lower during the six months ended
December 31, 2005 resulting from the amortization of the premium recognized on
such securities at the Acquisition Date as a result of the application of
purchase accounting coupled with the reinvestment of the proceeds of the
portfolio repositioning during the second half of 2005 in fixed maturities
yielding lower interest rates, and a reduced asset base during the period.
Additionally, while net investment income on other limited partnerships was
higher than anticipated during the six months ended June 30, 2005 due to better
than expected performance on such investments, it was lower in the six months
ended December 31, 2005 as a result of a conforming change in accounting
principle whereby many of such investments were converted to the cost basis of
accounting upon Acquisition. As a result, on a year-over-year basis net
investment income on other limited partnerships was level.

Total Expenses

     Total expenses increased by $61 million, or 10%, to $690 million for the
year ended December 31, 2005 from $629 million for the comparable 2004 period.

     Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $54 million. This increase is
primarily due to unfavorable mortality in life insurance products of $25 million
and a charge of $26 million from an increase in an excess mortality reserve in
the fourth quarter of 2005. In connection with the Acquisition, a review was
performed of underwriting criteria. As a result of these reviews and actuarial
analyses, and to be consistent with MetLife's existing reserving methodologies,
the Company has established an excess mortality reserve on a specific group of
policies written subsequent to the Acquisition.

     Interest credited to policyholder account balances decreased by $39
million, primarily attributable to interest credited in universal life and
annuity products, resulting from the revaluation of the policyholder balance
through the application of the purchase method of accounting and lower crediting
rates, partially offset by the growth in policyholder account balances.

     Other expenses increased by $46 million, primarily related to fewer
expenses being capitalized as DAC of $83 million, which is largely due to a
change in policy subsequent to the Acquisition, and an increase in DAC
amortization of $14 million as a result of growth in the business, higher
account balances related to universal life products, as well as the impact of a
change in policy subsequent to the Acquisition. These increases are partially
offset by a decrease in other expenses of $51 million principally due to lower
commissions of $37 million resulting from lower sales of life products and
annuities.

                                        30

SUBSEQUENT EVENT

     On February 14, 2006, TLAC filed with the State of Connecticut Office of
the Secretary of the State a Certificate of Amendment to the Charter as Amended
and Restated of The Travelers Life and Annuity Company (the "Charter
Amendment"). The Charter Amendment changes the name of TLAC to "MetLife Life and
Annuity Company of Connecticut" and is effective on May 1, 2006.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

  COMMITMENTS TO FUND PARTNERSHIP INVESTMENTS

     The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal
course of business. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $15 million
and $20 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company
anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships over the next
five years. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such
arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material.

  MORTGAGE LOAN COMMITMENTS

     The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loan commitments. The
amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were $20 million and $26 million at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The purpose of these loans is to
enhance the Company's total return on its investment portfolio. There are no
other obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements that are
reasonably likely to become material.

  GUARANTEES

     In the normal course of its business, the Company may provide certain
indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties pursuant to which it
may be required to make payments now or in the future. In the context of
acquisition, disposition, investment and other transactions, the Company may
provide indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax, other
specific liabilities, and other indemnities and guarantees that are triggered
by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants
provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of business, the
Company may provide indemnifications to counterparties in contracts with
triggers similar to the foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities,
such as third party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to time
limitations that vary in duration, including contractual limitations and those
that arise by operation of law, such as applicable statutes of limitation. In
some cases, the maximum potential obligation under the indemnities and
guarantees is subject to contractual limitation, while in other cases such
limitations are not specified or applicable. Therefore, the Company does not
believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount due under
these guarantees.

     In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers as provided
in its charters and by-laws. Also, the Company indemnifies other of its agents
for liabilities incurred as a result of their representation of the Company's
interests. Since these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with
respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible
to determine the maximum potential amount due under these indemnities in the
future.

  COLLATERAL FOR SECURITIES LENDING

     The Company has non-cash collateral for securities lending on deposit from
customers, which cannot be sold or repledged, and which has not been recorded on
its consolidated balance sheets. The amount of this collateral was $0 and $24
million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

INSOLVENCY ASSESSMENTS

     Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact
business require life insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to
participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual
benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or
failed life insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed
limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of
business in which

                                        31

the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member
insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax
offsets. Assessments levied against the Company from January 1, 2003 through
December 31, 2005 aggregated less than $1 million. The Company maintained a
liability of $1 million at December 31, 2005, and a related asset for premium
tax offsets of $1 million at December 31, 2005 for future assessments in respect
of currently impaired, insolvent or failed insurers.

     In the past five years, none of the aggregate assessments levied against
the Company have been material. The Company has established liabilities for
guaranty fund assessments that it considers adequate for assessments with
respect to insurers that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

     The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material effect on
its consolidated results of operations, except insofar as inflation may affect
interest rates.

APPLICATION OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In February 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Instruments ("SFAS 155"). SFAS 155
amends SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging ("SFAS
133") and SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial
Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities ("SFAS 140"). SFAS 155 allows
financial instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for as a
whole, eliminating the need to bifurcate the derivative from its host, if the
holder elects to account for the whole instrument on a fair value basis. In
addition, among other changes, SFAS 155 (i) clarifies which interest-only strips
and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133; (ii)
establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets
to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid
financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation;
(iii) clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination
are not embedded derivatives; and (iv) eliminates the prohibition on a
qualifying special-purpose entity ("QSPE") from holding a derivative financial
instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative
financial interest. SFAS 155 will be applied prospectively and is effective for
all financial instruments acquired or issued for fiscal years beginning after
September 15, 2006. SFAS 155 is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company's consolidated financial statements. The FASB has issued additional
guidance relating to derivative financial instruments as follows:

     - In June 2005, the FASB cleared SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B38,
       Embedded Derivatives: Evaluation of Net Settlement with Respect to the
       Settlement of a Debt Instrument through Exercise of an Embedded Put
       Option or Call Option ("Issue B38") and SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No.
       B39, Embedded Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Call Options
       That Are Exercisable Only by the Debtor ("Issue B39"). Issue B38
       clarified that the potential settlement of a debtor's obligation to a
       creditor occurring upon exercise of a put or call option meets the net
       settlement criteria of SFAS No. 133. Issue B39 clarified that an embedded
       call option, in which the underlying is an interest rate or interest rate
       index, that can accelerate the settlement of a debt host financial
       instrument should not be bifurcated and fair valued if the right to
       accelerate the settlement can be exercised only by the debtor
       (issuer/borrower) and the investor will recover substantially all of its
       initial net investment. Issues B38 and B39, which must be adopted as of
       the first day of the first fiscal quarter beginning after December 15,
       2005, did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated
       financial statements.

     - Effective July 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 149, Amendment of
       Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS
       149"). SFAS 149 amended and clarified the accounting and reporting for
       derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded
       in other contracts, and for hedging activities. Except for certain
       previously issued and effective guidance, SFAS 149 was effective for
       contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003. The Company's
       adoption of SFAS 149 did not have a significant impact on its
       consolidated financial statements.

                                        32

Effective November 9, 2005, the Company prospectively adopted the guidance
in FASB Staff Position ("FSP") 140-2, Clarification of the Application of
Paragraphs 40(b) and 40(c) of FAS 140 ("FSP 140-2"). FSP 140-2 clarified certain
criteria relating to derivatives and beneficial interests when considering
whether an entity qualifies as a QSPE. Under FSP 140-2, the criteria must only
be met at the date the QSPE issues beneficial interests or when a derivative
financial instrument needs to be replaced upon the occurrence of a specified
event outside the control of the transferor. FSP 140-2 did not have a material
impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     In September 2005, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
("AICPA") issued Statement of Position ("SOP") 05-1, Accounting by Insurance
Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or
Exchanges of Insurance Contracts ("SOP 05-1"). SOP 05-1 provides guidance on
accounting by insurance enterprises for deferred acquisition costs on internal
replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than those specifically
described in SFAS No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for
Certain Long-Duration Contracts and For Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale
of Investments. SOP 05-1 defines an internal replacement as a modification in
product benefits, features, rights, or coverages that occurs by the exchange of
a contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a
contract, or by the election of a feature or coverage within a contract. Under
SOP 05-1, modifications that result in a substantially unchanged contract will
be accounted for as a continuation of the replaced contract. A replacement
contract that is substantially changed will be accounted for as an
extinguishment of the replaced contract resulting in a release of unamortized
deferred acquisition costs, unearned revenue and deferred sales inducements
associated with the replaced contract. The guidance in SOP 05-1 will be applied
prospectively and is effective for internal replacements occurring in fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company is currently evaluating the
impact of SOP 05-1 and does not expect that the pronouncement will have a
material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of
Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion
No. 29 ("SFAS 153"). SFAS 153 amended prior guidance to eliminate the exception
for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaced it with a
general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have
commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the
future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result
of the exchange. The provisions of SFAS 153 were required to be applied
prospectively for fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of
SFAS 153 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial
statements.

     In June 2005, the FASB completed its review of Emerging Issues Task Force
("EITF") Issue No. 03-1, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its
Application to Certain Investments ("EITF 03-1"). EITF 03-1 provides accounting
guidance regarding the determination of when an impairment of debt and
marketable equity securities and investments accounted for under the cost method
should be considered other-than-temporary and recognized in income. EITF 03-1
also requires certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures for debt and
marketable equity securities classified as available-for-sale or held-to-
maturity under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities ("SFAS 115"), that are impaired at the balance sheet date but
for which an other-than-temporary impairment has not been recognized. The FASB
decided not to provide additional guidance on the meaning of
other-than-temporary impairment but has issued FSP 115-1, The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments ("FSP
115-1"), which nullifies the accounting guidance on the determination of whether
an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired as set forth in EITF 03-1. As
required by FSP 115-1, the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis,
which had no material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements
and has provided the required disclosures.

     In June 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 04-5, Determining
Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a
Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain
Rights ("EITF 04-5"). EITF 04-5 provides a framework for determining whether a
general partner controls and should consolidate a limited partnership or a
similar entity in light of certain
                                        33

rights held by the limited partners. The consensus also provides additional
guidance on substantive rights. EITF 04-5 was effective after June 29, 2005 for
all newly formed partnerships and for any pre-existing limited partnerships that
modified their partnership agreements after that date. The adoption of this
provision of EITF 04-5 did not have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial statements. EITF 04-5 must be adopted by January 1, 2006
for all other limited partnerships through a cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle recorded in opening equity or it may be applied
retrospectively by adjusting prior period financial statements. The adoption of
this provision of EITF 04-5 did not have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial statements.

     In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error
Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 ("SFAS
154"). The statement requires retrospective application to prior periods'
financial statements for a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is
deemed impracticable. It also requires that a change in the method of
depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long-lived, non-financial assets be
accounted for as a change in accounting estimate rather than a change in
accounting principle. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and
corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005.
The adoption of SFAS 154 did not have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial statements.

     Effective July 1, 2004, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 03-16,
Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies ("EITF 03-16"). EITF
03-16 provides guidance regarding whether a limited liability company should be
viewed as similar to a corporation or similar to a partnership for purposes of
determining whether a noncontrolling investment should be accounted for using
the cost method or the equity method of accounting. EITF 03-16 did not have a
material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     Effective January 1, 2004, the Company adopted SOP 03-1, Accounting and
Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long-Duration
Contracts and for Separate Accounts ("SOP 03-1"), as interpreted by a Technical
Practice Aid issued by the AICPA. SOP 03-1 provides guidance on (i) the
classification and valuation of long-duration contract liabilities; (ii) the
accounting for sales inducements; and (iii) separate account presentation and
valuation.

     The following summarizes the more significant aspects of the Company's
adoption of SOP 03-1 prior to the Acquisition, effective January 1, 2004:

          Separate Account Presentation.  SOP 03-1 requires separate account
     products to meet certain criteria in order to be treated as separate
     account products. For products not meeting the specified criteria, these
     assets and liabilities are included in the reporting entity's general
     account.

          Variable Annuity Contracts with Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefit
     Features.  SOP 03-1 requires the reporting entity to categorize the
     contract as either an insurance or investment contract based upon the
     significance of mortality or morbidity risk. SOP 03-1 provides explicit
     guidance for calculating a liability for insurance contracts, and provides
     that the reporting entity does not hold liabilities for investment
     contracts (i.e., there is no significant mortality risk).

          Liabilities for Universal Life and Variable Universal Life
     Contracts.  SOP 03-1 requires that a liability, in addition to the account
     balance, be established for certain insurance benefit features provided
     under universal life and variable universal life products if the amounts
     assessed against the contract holder each period for the insurance benefit
     feature are assessed in a manner that is expected to result in profits in
     earlier years and losses in subsequent years from the insurance benefit
     function.

          The Company's universal life and variable universal life products were
     reviewed to determine whether an additional liability is required under SOP
     03-1. The Company determined that SOP 03-1 applied to some of its universal
     life and variable universal life contracts with these features and
     established an additional liability of less than $1 million.

          Sales Inducements to Contractholders.  In accordance with SOP 03-1,
     the Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over the life of
     the policy using the same methodology and assumptions

                                        34

used to amortize DAC. These inducements relate to bonuses on certain
     products offered by the Company.

     During the third quarter of 2003, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation
("FIN") No. 46 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities -- An Interpretation
of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 ("FIN 46"), and its December 2003
revision ("FIN 46(r)"), which includes substantial changes from the original FIN
46. Included in these changes, the calculation of expected losses and expected
residual returns has been altered to reduce the impact of decision maker and
guarantor fees in the calculation of expected residual returns and expected
losses. In addition, the definition of a variable interest has been changed in
the revised guidance.

     FIN 46 and FIN 46(r) change the method of determining whether certain
entities, including securitization entities, should be consolidated in the
Company's financial statements. An entity is subject to FIN 46 and FIN 46(r) and
is called a variable interest entity "VIE" if it has (i) equity that is
insufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support from other parties; or (ii) equity investors that
cannot make significant decisions about the entity's operations or that do not
absorb the expected losses or receive the expected returns of the entity. All
other entities are evaluated for consolidation under SFAS No. 94, Consolidation
of All Majority-Owned Subsidiaries. A VIE is consolidated by its primary
beneficiary, which is the party involved with the VIE that has a majority of the
expected losses or a majority of the expected residual returns or both.

     The adoption of the provisions of FIN 46(r) during the third quarter of
2003, did not require the Company to consolidate any additional VIEs that were
not previously consolidated.

     Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 146, Accounting for
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities ("SFAS 146"). SFAS 146
requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal
activity be recorded and measured initially at fair value only when the
liability is incurred rather than at the date of an entity's commitment to an
exit plan as required by EITF Issue No. 94-3, Liability Recognition for Certain
Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity Including
Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring ("EITF 94-3"). As required by SFAS
146, the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis which had no
material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk
associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance
contracts. MetLife has developed an integrated process for managing its risks
and those of its subsidiaries, including the Company (MetLife and its
subsidiaries, including the Company, collectively, the "MetLife Companies"),
which it conducts through its Corporate Risk Management Department,
Asset/Liability Management Committees ("ALM Committees") and additional
specialists at the business segment level. MetLife has established and
implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and
business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility.

     MetLife regularly analyzes the MetLife Companies' exposure to interest
rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange risk. As a result of that
analysis, MetLife has determined that the fair value of the Company's interest
rate sensitive invested assets is materially exposed to changes in interest
rates. The equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the Company to
material market risk.

     MetLife analyzes interest rate risk using various models including
multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the
liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments.
MetLife uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, equity market, and
foreign currency exchange risk, including the use of derivative instruments.

     MetLife generally uses option adjusted duration to manage interest rate
risk and the methods and assumptions used are generally consistent with those
used by the Company in 2004. However, some processes used to measure interest
rate risk utilize interim manual reporting and estimation techniques while
MetLife
                                        35

integrates the Travelers operations acquired. During the second half of 2005, in
line with MetLife's overall investment strategy, the management of MetLife
restructured the Company's portfolio of assets that were acquired, generally
reducing the amount of market risk associated with the acquired block. Under
MetLife investment guidelines, MetLife has reduced and diversified the Company's
credit risk and increased its exposure to structured assets. As opportunities
arise, MetLife's portfolio managers are taking advantage of its strength in
sourcing private commercial mortgages to further diversify the asset mix. Based
upon these changes, further adjustments have been made to ensure that interest
rate risk remains within MetLife's risk guidelines.

MARKET RISK EXPOSURES

     The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations
and investment activities. For purposes of this disclosure, "market risk" is
defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity
market prices and foreign currency exchange rates.

     Interest Rates.  The Company's exposure to interest rate changes results
from its significant holdings of fixed maturities, as well as its interest rate
sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturities include U.S. and foreign government
bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and
mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in
medium- and long-term treasury rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities
for purposes of this disclosure include fixed annuities which have the same type
of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term treasury rates) as fixed
maturity securities. MetLife employs product design, pricing and asset/liability
management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements.
Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or
restrictions on withdrawals in some products. Asset/liability management
strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured
to protect against prepayments, prepayment restrictions and related fees on
mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the Company's
products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities
they support.

     Equity Market Prices.  The Company's investments in equity securities
expose it to changes in equity prices, as do certain liabilities that involve
long-term guarantees on equity performance. MetLife manages this risk on an
integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management
strategies. MetLife also manages equity market price risk through industry and
issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and the use of derivatives.

     Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.  The Company's exposure to fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar is not significant.

RISK MANAGEMENT

     Corporate Risk Management.  MetLife has established several financial and
non-financial senior management committees as part of its enterprise-wide risk
management process. These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve
asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate
business standards for MetLife and its subsidiaries, including the Company.

     MetLife also has a separate Corporate Risk Management Department, which is
responsible for risk for the MetLife Companies and reports to MetLife's Chief
Financial Officer. The Corporate Risk Management Department's primary
responsibilities consist of:

     - implementing a board of directors-approved corporate risk framework,
       which outlines MetLife's approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide
       basis;

     - developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring
       those risks identified in the corporate risk framework;

     - establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels;

     - deploying capital on an economic capital basis;

                                        36

- reporting on a periodic basis to the Governance Committee of MetLife's
       board of directors and various financial and non-financial senior
       management committees.

     Asset/Liability Management.  MetLife actively manages the MetLife
Companies' assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification,
asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. The goals of the
investment process are to optimize, net of income taxes, risk-adjusted
investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets
and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The
asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of MetLife's
Portfolio Management Unit, MetLife's Business Finance Asset/Liability Management
Unit and the MetLife Companies' operating business segments under the
supervision of the various product line specific ALM Committees. The ALM
Committees' duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a
periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing
oversight of the asset/liability management process. The portfolio managers and
asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day-to-day basis for risk
management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and
objectives established by the ALM Committees.

     Each of MetLife's business segments has an asset/liability officer who
works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor
investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues.
MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product,
which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund the MetLife
Companies' liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies
include objectives for effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity,
liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality.

     To manage interest rate risk, MetLife performs periodic projections of
asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of the
MetLife Companies' securities investments and liabilities to interest rate
movements. These projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on
most of the Company's in-force business under various increasing and decreasing
interest rate environments. For several of its legal entities, MetLife maintains
segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of
asset/liability management and the allocation of investment income to product
lines. For each of MetLife's segments, invested assets greater than or equal to
the GAAP liabilities less the DAC asset and any non-invested assets allocated to
the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment.
MetLife's operating segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory
line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a
distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit
quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented
general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate
characteristics of liabilities in those entities. MetLife measures relative
sensitivities of the value of the MetLife Companies' assets and liabilities to
changes in key assumptions utilizing MetLife models. These models reflect
specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and
anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates.
In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting
interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls,
mortgage prepayments and defaults.

     Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to
measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in
interest rates. In computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given
to all policyholder guarantees and to how MetLife intends to set indeterminate
policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. Each of MetLife's
operating asset segments has a duration constraint based on the liability
duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. Where a liability cash
flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain
retirement and non-medical health products. MetLife may support such liabilities
with equity investments or curve mismatch strategies.

     Hedging Activities.  To reduce interest rate risk, MetLife's risk
management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives
to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset
portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of the MetLife
Companies' liabilities. Such instruments include financial futures, financial
forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, caps, floors and options.
MetLife also uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge the MetLife
Companies' foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. Prior to the
Acquisition, MetLife initiated a hedging strategy

                                        37

for certain equity price risks within its liabilities using equity futures and
options, which has been applied to the Company.

RISK MEASUREMENT; SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS

     MetLife measures market risk related to the MetLife Companies' holdings of
invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk
sensitive insurance contracts, based on changes in interest rates, equity market
prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This
analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value, cash flows and earnings
based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates,
equity market prices and currency exchange rates. MetLife believes that a 10%
change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably
possible in the near-term. In performing this analysis, MetLife used market
rates at December 31, 2005 to re-price the Company's invested assets and other
financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis separately calculated each of
the Company's market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market price and
foreign currency exchange rate) related to its non-trading invested assets and
other financial instruments. The Company does not maintain a trading portfolio.
The sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings
described above. MetLife modeled the impact of changes in market rates and
prices on the fair values of the Company's invested assets, earnings and cash
flows as follows:

     Fair Values.  MetLife bases the potential change in fair values on an
immediate change (increase or decrease) in:

     - the net present values of the Company's interest rate sensitive exposures
       resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates;

     - the market value of the Company's equity positions due to a 10% change
       (increase or decrease) in equity prices;

     - the U.S. dollar equivalent balances of the Company's currency exposures
       due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates.

     Earnings and Cash Flows.  MetLife calculates the potential change in
earnings and cash flows on the change in the Company's earnings and cash flows
over a one-year period based on an immediate 10% change (increase or decrease)
in interest rates and equity prices. The following factors were incorporated
into the earnings and cash flows sensitivity analyses:

     - the reinvestment of fixed maturity securities;

     - the reinvestment of payments and prepayments of principal related to
       mortgage-backed securities;

     - the re-estimation of prepayment rates on mortgage-backed securities for
       each 10% change (increase or decrease) in the interest rates;

     - the expected turnover (sales) of fixed maturities and equity securities,
       including the reinvestment of the resulting proceeds.

     The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as
predictive of the Company's future financial performance. There can be no
assurance that the Company's actual losses in any particular year will not
exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this
sensitivity analysis include:

     - the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters
       established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the
       impact of prepayment rates on mortgages;

     - for derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings
       may be materially different from the change in market values;

     - the analysis excludes real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to
       insurance contracts;

     - the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains
       unchanged throughout the year.

                                        38

Accordingly, MetLife uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the
experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management
personnel. Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or
decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined that such a change
could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of the Company's interest
rate sensitive invested assets. The equity and foreign currency portfolios do
not expose the Company to material market risk.

     The table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the
Company's interest rate sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2005. In
addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange
rates and the Company's equity price sensitive positions at December 31, 2005 is
set forth in the table below.

     The potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the
Company's non-trading portfolio as of the period indicated was:

The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in
fair value of the Company's non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments
as of December 31, 2005 by type of asset or liability.

39

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

PAGE
                                                              ----
                                                             
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms...   F-1
Financial Statements as of December 31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR) and
  2004 (PREDECESSOR) and for the six months ended December
  31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR) and June 30, 2005 (PREDECESSOR) and
  for each of the years ended December 31, 2004
  (PREDECESSOR) and 2003 (PREDECESSOR):
  Consolidated Balance Sheets...............................   F-4
  Consolidated Statements of Income.........................   F-5
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholder's Equity...........   F-6
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.....................   F-7
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements................   F-8
Financial Statement Schedules as of December 31, 2005
  (SUCCESSOR) and 2004 (PREDECESSOR) and for the six months
  ended December 31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR) and June 30, 2005
  (PREDECESSOR) and for the years ended December 31, 2004
  (PREDECESSOR) and 2003 (PREDECESSOR):
  Schedule I -- Consolidated Summary of Investments -- Other
     Than Investments in Affiliates.........................  F-57
  Schedule III -- Consolidated Supplementary Insurance
     Information............................................  F-58
  Schedule IV -- Consolidated Reinsurance...................  F-60

40

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholder of
The Travelers Life and Annuity Company:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of The
Travelers Life and Annuity Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of
December 31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR), and the related consolidated statements of
income, stockholder's equity, and cash flows for the six months ended December
31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR), and June 30, 2005 (PREDECESSOR). Our audit also included
the consolidated financial statement schedules as of December 31, 2005
(SUCCESSOR), and the six months ended December 31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR), and June
30, 2005 (PREDECESSOR), listed in the accompanying index. These consolidated
financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
statement schedules based on our audit. The consolidated financial statements
and consolidated financial statement schedules of the Company as of December 31,
2004 (PREDECESSOR), and for the years ended December 31, 2004 (PREDECESSOR) and
2003 (PREDECESSOR), were audited by other auditors whose report, dated March 28,
2005, expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements and included an
explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's change of its accounting method
for certain non-traditional long duration contracts and separate accounts in
2004.

     We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company
is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its
internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of
internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control
over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of The Travelers Life
and Annuity Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR), and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for the six months ended
December 31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR), and June 30, 2005 (PREDECESSOR), in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Also, in our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein as of December 31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR), and for the six months ended
December 31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR), and June 30, 2005 (PREDECESSOR).

     As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company was acquired by MetLife, Inc. on July 1, 2005. As required by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 5-J., Push
Down Basis of Accounting Required in Certain Limited Circumstances, the purchase
method of accounting was applied to the assets and liabilities of the Company,
and such assets and liabilities were measured at their fair values as of the
acquisition date in conformity with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 141, Business Combinations. The accompanying consolidated financial
statements for periods prior and subsequent to the acquisition date are labeled
"PREDECESSOR" and "SUCCESSOR," respectively.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
- ---------------------------------------------------------
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York
March 29, 2006

                                       F-1

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholder
The Travelers Life and Annuity Company:

     We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of The Travelers Life and
Annuity Company as of December 31, 2004 (PREDECESSOR) and the related statements
of income, stockholder's equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the
two-year period ended December 31, 2004 (PREDECESSOR). These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of The Travelers Life and
Annuity Company as of December 31, 2004 and the results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended December 31,
2004 in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

     As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company changed its
methods of accounting and reporting for certain nontraditional long-duration
contracts and for separate accounts in 2004.

/s/ KPMG LLP
- ---------------------------------------------------------
KPMG LLP

Hartford, Connecticut
March 28, 2005

                                       F-2

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholder
The Travelers Life and Annuity Company:

     Under date of March 28, 2005, we reported on the balance sheet of The
Travelers Life and Annuity Company as of December 31, 2004 (PREDECESSOR) and the
related statements of income, stockholder's equity and cash flows for each of
the years in the two-year period ended December 31, 2004 (PREDECESSOR), which
are included in the Form 10-K. In connection with our audits of the
aforementioned financial statements, we also audited the related financial
statement schedules as listed in the accompanying index. These financial
statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statement schedules
based on our audits.

     In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.

     As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company changed its
methods of accounting and reporting for certain nontraditional long-duration
contracts and for separate accounts in 2004.

/s/ KPMG LLP
- ---------------------------------------------------------
KPMG LLP

Hartford, Connecticut
March 28, 2005

                                       F-3

THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004

                 (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-4

THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
          FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND JUNE 30, 2005
                 AND THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 AND 2003

                                 (IN MILLIONS)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       F-5

THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
          FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND JUNE 30, 2005
                 AND THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 AND 2003

                                 (IN MILLIONS)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       F-6

THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
          FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND JUNE 30, 2005
                 AND THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 AND 2003

                                 (IN MILLIONS)

See Note 1 for purchase accounting adjustment.

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-7

THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  ACQUISITION OF THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY BY METLIFE, INC.

     On July 1, 2005 (the "Acquisition Date"), The Travelers Life and Annuity
Company ("TLAC," together with its subsidiaries, the "Company") and other
affiliated entities, including the Company's parent, The Travelers Insurance
Company ("TIC"), and substantially all of Citigroup Inc.'s ("Citigroup")
international insurance businesses, and excluding Primerica Life Insurance
Company and its subsidiaries ("Primerica") (collectively, "Travelers"), were
acquired by MetLife, Inc. ("MetLife") from Citigroup (the "Acquisition") for
$12.0 billion. MetLife is a leading provider of insurance and other financial
services to millions of individual and institutional customers throughout the
United States. Outside the United States, the MetLife companies have direct
insurance operations in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Europe.

     Consideration paid by MetLife for the purchase consisted of approximately
$10.9 billion in cash and 22,436,617 shares of MetLife's common stock with a
market value of approximately $1.0 billion to Citigroup and approximately $100
million in other transaction costs. Consideration paid to Citigroup will be
finalized subject to review of the June 30, 2005 financial statements of
Travelers by both MetLife and Citigroup and interpretation of the provisions of
the acquisition agreement, dated as of January 31, 2005 between MetLife and
Citigroup (the "Acquisition Agreement"), by both parties.

     In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
141, Business Combinations, and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets, the Acquisition is being accounted for by MetLife using the purchase
method of accounting, which requires that the assets and liabilities of the
Company be identified and measured at their fair value as of the Acquisition
Date. As required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Staff
Accounting Bulletin Topic 5-J., Push Down Basis of Accounting Required in
Certain Limited Circumstances, the purchase method of accounting applied by
MetLife to the acquired assets and liabilities associated with the Company has
been "pushed down" to the consolidated financial statements of the Company,
thereby establishing a new basis of accounting. This new basis of accounting is
referred to as the "successor basis," while the historical basis of accounting
is referred to as the "predecessor basis." Financial statements included herein
for periods prior and subsequent to the Acquisition Date are labeled
"predecessor" and "successor," respectively.

  Purchase Price Allocation and Goodwill -- Preliminary

     The purchase price has been allocated to the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed using management's best estimate of their fair values as of
the Acquisition Date. The computation of the purchase price and the allocation
of the purchase price to the net assets acquired based upon their respective
fair values as of July 1, 2005, and the resulting goodwill, as revised, are
presented below. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company revised the
purchase price allocation as a result of reviews of the Company's underwriting
criteria performed in order to refine the estimate of fair values of assumed
future policy benefit liabilities. As a result of these reviews and actuarial
analyses, and to be consistent with MetLife's reserving methodologies, the
Company increased its estimate of the fair value of liabilities relating to a
specific group of acquired life insurance policies. Consequently, the fair value
of future policy benefits assumed increased by $314 million, net of the related
deferred tax assets of $110 million, for a net change of $204 million. The
Company expects to complete its reviews and, if required, further refine its
estimate of the fair value of such liabilities by June 30, 2006. Additionally,
the Company received updated information regarding the fair values of certain
assets and liabilities such as its investments in other limited partnerships,
mortgage and consumer loans, other assets and other liabilities resulting in a
change in the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, net of their
related deferred tax effects, of $23 million. These adjustments resulted in a
reduction of the total net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed of $227 million from those initially estimated. Based upon MetLife's
method of attributing the purchase price to the entities acquired, the portion
of Travelers' purchase

                                       F-8
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

price attributed to the Company was decreased by $208 million resulting in an
increase in goodwill of $19 million.

     The fair value of certain other assets acquired and liabilities assumed,
including goodwill, may be further adjusted during the allocation period due to
finalization of the purchase price to be paid to Citigroup as noted previously,
agreement between Citigroup and MetLife as to the tax basis purchase price to be
allocated to the acquired subsidiaries, and receipt of information regarding the
estimation of certain fair values. In no case will the adjustments extend beyond
one year from the Acquisition Date.

SUCCESSOR
                                                                   ---------
                                                              AS OF JULY 1, 2005
                                                              ------------------
                                                                 (IN MILLIONS)
                                                                      
TOTAL PURCHASE PRICE:.......................................             $11,966
  Purchase price attributed to other affiliates.............              10,238
                                                                         -------
  Purchase price attributed to the Company..................               1,728
NET ASSETS ACQUIRED PRIOR TO PURCHASE ACCOUNTING
  ADJUSTMENTS...............................................  $ 2,034
ADJUSTMENTS TO REFLECT ASSETS ACQUIRED AT FAIR VALUE:
  Fixed maturities available-for-sale.......................       (4)
  Mortgage loans on real estate.............................        7
  Real estate and real estate joint ventures
     held-for-investment....................................       (1)
  Other limited partnership interests.......................        3
  Other invested assets.....................................      (10)
  Premiums and other receivables............................      (47)
  Elimination of historical deferred policy acquisition
     costs..................................................   (1,622)
  Value of business acquired................................    1,676
  Value of distribution agreements acquired.................        8
  Net deferred income tax asset.............................      261
  Other assets..............................................        5
ADJUSTMENTS TO REFLECT LIABILITIES ASSUMED AT FAIR VALUE:
  Future policy benefits....................................     (292)
  Policyholder account balances.............................     (464)
  Other liabilities.........................................      (69)
                                                              -------
NET FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS ACQUIRED AND LIABILITIES ASSUMED...               1,485
                                                                         -------
GOODWILL RESULTING FROM THE ACQUISITION.....................             $   243
                                                                         =======

The entire amount of goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax
purposes.

                                       F-9
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Condensed Statement of Net Assets Acquired

     The condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects the fair value of
the Company's net assets as of July 1, 2005 as follows:

Other Intangible Assets

     Value of business acquired ("VOBA") reflects the estimated fair value of
in-force contracts acquired and represents the portion of the purchase price
that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from
the life insurance and annuity contracts in-force at the Acquisition Date. VOBA
is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of
future policy and contract charges, premiums,

                                       F-10
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating
expenses, investment returns and other factors. Actual experience on the
purchased business may vary from these projections. If estimated gross profits
or premiums differ from expectations, the amortization of VOBA is adjusted to
reflect actual experience.

     The value of the other identifiable intangibles reflects the estimated fair
value of the Company's distribution agreements acquired at July 1, 2005 and will
be amortized in relation to the expected economic benefits of the agreements. If
actual experience under the distribution agreements differs from expectations,
the amortization of these intangibles will be adjusted to reflect actual
experience.

     The use of discount rates was necessary to establish the fair value of
VOBA, as well as other identifiable intangible assets. In selecting the
appropriate discount rates, management considered the calculated weighted
average cost of capital, as well as the weighted average cost of capital
required by market participants. A discount rate of 11.5% was used to value
these intangible assets.

     The fair value of business acquired and distribution agreements acquired
are as follows:

SUCCESSOR
                                                          -------------    WEIGHTED AVERAGE
                                                          JULY 1, 2005    AMORTIZATION PERIOD
                                                          -------------   -------------------
                                                          (IN MILLIONS)
                                                                       
Value of business acquired.............................      $1,676            16 years
Value of distribution agreements acquired..............           8            16 years
                                                             ------
  Total value of intangible assets acquired, excluding
     goodwill..........................................      $1,684            16 years
                                                             ======

The estimated future amortization of the value of business acquired and
distribution agreements from 2006 to 2010 is as follows:

2.  SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  BUSINESS

     TLAC is a Connecticut corporation incorporated in 1973. As described more
fully in Note 1, TLAC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of TIC. On July 1, 2005, TIC
became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, a leading provider of insurance and
other financial services to millions of individual and institutional customers
throughout the United States. Outside the United States, the MetLife companies
have direct insurance operations in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Europe. The
Company offers annuities and life insurance to individuals and small businesses.

     The Company currently operates as a single segment and, as such, financial
results are prepared and reviewed by management as a single operating segment.
The Company continually evaluates its operating activities and the method
utilized by management to evaluate the performance of such activities and will
report on a segment basis when appropriate to do so.

                                       F-11
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
the Company and partnerships and joint ventures in which the Company has
control. Assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the general account for
2005 and 2004 include amounts related to certain separate accounts previously
reported in separate account assets and liabilities. See "-- Application of
Recent Accounting Pronouncements." Intercompany accounts and transactions have
been eliminated.

     As described more fully in Note 1, the application of purchase accounting
resulted in the establishment of a new basis of accounting. Consequently, all
periods prior and subsequent to the Acquisition Date are labeled "predecessor"
and "successor," respectively. As such periods are not prepared on a consistent
basis, the six month period and the years prior to the Acquisition are presented
separately from the six month period subsequent to the Acquisition.

     Certain amounts in the predecessor consolidated financial statements for
periods prior to July 1, 2005 have been reclassified to conform with the
presentation of the successor.

     Significant reclassifications to the consolidated balance sheet as of
December 31, 2004 are as follows: (i) securities previously reported in other
invested assets are now reported in equity securities; (ii) securities
partnerships that were previously reported in other invested assets are now
reported in other limited partnership interests; (iii) reinsurance recoverables
are now reported in premiums and other receivables; (iv) VOBA previously
reported in other assets is now reported in deferred policy acquisition costs
("DAC"); (v) balances on investment-type contracts previously reported in
contractholder funds are now reported in policyholder account balances; (vi)
deferred sales inducements previously reported as part of DAC, are now reported
in other assets; (vii) deferred profits previously reported as other liabilities
are now reported in other policyholder funds.

     Reclassifications to the consolidated statements of income for the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, were primarily related to certain reinsurance
and other revenues previously reported in general and administrative expenses
which are now reported in other revenues. In addition, amortization of DAC is
now reported in other expenses.

     The consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2003 have been presented using the indirect method. Reclassifications
made to the consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December
31, 2004 and 2003 primarily related to investment-type policy activity
previously reported as cash flows from operating activities which are now
reported as cash flows from financing activities. In addition, net changes in
payables for securities loaned transactions were reclassified from cash flows
from investing activities to cash flows from financing activities and accrued
withdrawal benefits were reclassified from cash flows from financing activities
to cash flows from operating activities.

  SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") requires
management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that
affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most
critical estimates include those used in determining: (i) investment
impairments; (ii) the fair value of investments in the absence of quoted market
values; (iii) application of the consolidation rules to certain investments;
(iv) the fair value of and accounting for derivatives; (v) the capitalization
and amortization of DAC and the establishment and amortization of VOBA; (vi) the
measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any; (vii) the liability for
future policyholder benefits; (viii) accounting for reinsurance transactions;
and (ix) the liability for litigation and regulatory matters. The application of
purchase accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the
fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities
                                       F-12
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

assumed -- the most significant of which relate to the aforementioned critical
estimates. In applying these policies, management makes subjective and complex
judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently
uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in
the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the
Company's business and operations. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.

  Investments

     The Company's principal investments are in fixed maturities, mortgage loans
on real estate and other limited partnerships, all of which are exposed to three
primary sources of investment risk: credit, interest rate and market valuation.
The financial statement risks are those associated with the recognition of
impairments and income, as well as the determination of fair values. The
assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management's
case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value.
Management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses
its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair
value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery.
Inherent in management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and
estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential.
Considerations used by the Company in the impairment evaluation process include,
but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the
market value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for
impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial
difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector
or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically
depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities
where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type
of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) the Company's ability and
intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the
recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized
cost; (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on asset-backed
securities; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and
information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. In addition, the
earnings on certain investments are dependent upon market conditions, which
could result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be earned due to changing
interest rates or equity markets. The determination of fair values in the
absence of quoted market values is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii)
securities the Company deems to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed
appropriate given the circumstances. The use of different methodologies and
assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. In
addition, the Company enters into certain limited partnerships for which the
Company may be deemed to be the primary beneficiary and, therefore, may be
required to consolidate such investments. The accounting rules for the
determination of the primary beneficiary are complex and require evaluation of
the contractual rights and obligations associated with each party involved in
the entity, an estimate of the entity's expected losses and expected residual
returns and the allocation of such estimates to each party.

  Derivatives

     The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions primarily to
manage the risk associated with variability in cash flows or changes in fair
values related to the Company's financial assets and liabilities. The Company
also purchases investment securities, issues certain insurance policies and
engages in certain reinsurance contracts that have embedded derivatives. The
associated financial statement risk is the volatility in net income which can
result from (i) changes in fair value of derivatives not qualifying as
accounting hedges; (ii) ineffectiveness of designated hedges; and (iii)
counterparty default. In addition, there is a risk that embedded derivatives
requiring bifurcation are not identified and reported at fair value in the
consolidated financial statements. Accounting for derivatives is complex, as
evidenced by significant authoritative interpretations of the primary accounting
standards which continue to evolve, as well as the significant judgments and
estimates involved in determining fair value in the absence of quoted market
values. These
                                       F-13
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

estimates are based on valuation methodologies and assumptions deemed
appropriate under the circumstances. Such assumptions include estimated
volatility and interest rates used in the determination of fair value where
quoted market values are not available. The use of different assumptions may
have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired

     The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
renewal insurance business. These costs, which vary with and are primarily
related to the production of that business, are deferred. The recovery of DAC
and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The
amount of future profit is dependent principally on investment returns in excess
of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency,
interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness
of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation.
Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns are most
likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned
factors enter into management's estimates of gross profits, which generally are
used to amortize such costs. VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force
contracts in a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of
the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future
cash flows from the insurance and annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition
date. VOBA is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of
business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and
morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses,
investment returns and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased
business may vary from these projections. Revisions to estimates result in
changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions
are made and could result in the impairment of the asset and a charge to income
if estimated future gross profits are less than amounts deferred. In addition,
the Company utilizes the reversion to the mean assumption, a common industry
practice, in its determination of the amortization of DAC and VOBA. This
practice assumes that the expectation for long-term appreciation in equity
markets is not changed by minor short-term market fluctuations, but that it does
change when large interim deviations have occurred.

  Goodwill

     Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired.
The Company tests goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently
if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate,
indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test.
Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires
the use of estimates and judgment, at the "reporting unit" level. A reporting
unit is the operating segment, or a business that is one level below the
operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly
reviewed by management at that level. If the carrying value of a reporting
unit's goodwill exceeds its fair value, the excess is recognized as an
impairment and recorded as a charge against net income. The fair values of the
reporting units are determined using a market multiple or discounted cash flow
model. The critical estimates necessary in determining fair value are projected
earnings, comparative market multiples and the discount rate.

  Liability for Future Policy Benefits

     The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance
policies, including traditional life insurance and traditional annuities.
Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and liabilities
are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with
GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the
establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, expenses,
persistency, investment returns and inflation. Utilizing these assumptions,
liabilities are established on a block of business basis.

                                       F-14
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing
these policies and in the establishment of liabilities result in variances in
profit and could result in losses. The effects of changes in such estimated
liabilities are included in the results of operations in the period in which the
changes occur.

  Reinsurance

     The Company enters into reinsurance transactions as a purchaser of
reinsurance. Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions
and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying
business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company
periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the
aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to
ceded reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its
reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security
impairment process discussed previously. Additionally, for each of its
reinsurance contracts, the Company must determine if the contract provides
indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk in
accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company must review all
contractual features, particularly those that may limit the amount of insurance
risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely
reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a reinsurance contract
does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss
from insurance risk, the Company records the contract using the deposit method
of accounting.

  Litigation

     The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and regulatory
investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is
difficult to estimate the impact on the Company's consolidated financial
position. On a quarterly and annual basis the Company reviews relevant
information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory
investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the
Company's consolidated financial statements. The review includes senior legal
and financial personnel. Estimates of possible additional losses or ranges of
loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a
reasonable degree of certainty. The limitations of available data and
uncertainty regarding numerous variables make it difficult to estimate
liabilities. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. It is
possible that some of the matters could require the Company to pay damages or
make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be
estimated as of December 31, 2005. Furthermore, it is possible that an adverse
outcome in certain of the Company's litigation and regulatory investigations, or
the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could
have a material effect upon the Company's consolidated net income or cash flows
in particular quarterly or annual periods.

  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  Investments

     The Company's fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as
available-for-sale and are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized
investment gains and losses on securities are recorded as a separate component
of other comprehensive income or loss, net of policyholder related amounts and
deferred income taxes. The cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is
adjusted for impairments in value deemed to be other-than-temporary in the
period in which the determination is made. These adjustments are recorded as
investment losses. The assessment of whether such impairment has occurred is
based on management's case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the
decline in fair value. Management considers a wide range of factors, as
described in " -- Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates -- Investments,"
about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of
the decline in the estimated fair value of the

                                       F-15
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in
management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the
operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential.

     The Company's review of its fixed maturities and equity securities for
impairments also includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by
three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value
had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii)
securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost
or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities
where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized
cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.

     Investment gains and losses on sales of securities are determined on a
specific identification basis. All security transactions are recorded on a trade
date basis. Amortization of premium and accretion of discount on fixed maturity
securities is recorded using the effective interest method.

     Mortgage loans on real estate are stated at amortized cost, net of
valuation allowances. Loans are considered to be impaired when it is probable
that, based upon current information and events, the Company will be unable to
collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the loan agreement.
Valuation allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the loan
over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's
original effective interest rate, the value of the loan's collateral or the
loan's market value if the loan is being sold. The Company also establishes
allowances for loan loss when a loss contingency exists for pools of loans with
similar characteristics, for example, mortgage loans based on similar property
types and loan to value risk factors. A loss contingency exists when the
likelihood that a future event will occur is probable based on past events.
Changes in valuation allowances are included in net investment gains and losses.
Interest income earned on impaired loans is accrued on the principal amount of
the loan based on the loan's contractual interest rate. However, interest ceases
to be accrued for loans on which interest is generally more than 60 days past
due and/or where the collection of interest is not considered probable. Cash
receipts on impaired loans are recorded as a reduction of the recorded
investment.

     Policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances.

     Short-term investments are stated at amortized cost, which approximates
fair value.

     Other invested assets consist primarily of the fair value of the Company's
freestanding derivative instruments.

     Prior to the Acquisition, the Company used the equity method of accounting
for all other limited partnership interests in which it had an ownership
interest but did not control, including those in which it had a minor equity
investment or virtually no influence over operations.

     Subsequent to the Acquisition, the Company uses the equity method of
accounting for investments in other limited partnership interests in which it
has more than a minor ownership interest or more than minor influence over
operations, but does not have a controlling interest and is not the primary
beneficiary. The Company uses the cost method of accounting for other limited
partnership interests in which it has a minor ownership investment and virtually
no influence over operations.

  Derivative Financial Instruments

     Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from
interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or other financial indices. Derivatives
may be exchange traded or contracted in the over-the-counter market. The Company
uses a variety of derivatives, including swaps, forwards, futures and option
contracts, to manage its various risks. Additionally, the Company has the
ability to enter into income generation and replication derivatives as permitted
by its Derivatives Use Plan approved by the Connecticut Insurance Department
(the "Department"). Freestanding derivatives are carried on the Company's
consolidated balance sheet either as

                                       F-16
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

assets within other invested assets or as liabilities within other liabilities
at fair value as determined by quoted market prices or through the use of
pricing models. Values can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign
exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, market volatility and
liquidity. Values can also be affected by changes in estimates and assumptions
used in pricing models. If a derivative is not designated as an accounting hedge
or its use in managing risk does not qualify for hedge accounting pursuant to
SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
("SFAS 133"), as amended, changes in the fair value of the derivative are
reported in net investment gains (losses).

     To qualify for hedge accounting, at the inception of the hedging
relationship, the Company formally documents its risk management objective and
strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction, as well as its designation of
the hedge as either (i) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or
liability or an unrecognized firm commitment ("fair value hedge"); or (ii) a
hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be
received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ("cash flow hedge").
In this documentation, the Company sets forth how the hedging instrument is
expected to hedge the designated risks related to the hedged item and sets forth
the method that will be used to retrospectively and prospectively assess the
hedging instrument's effectiveness and the method which will be used to measure
ineffectiveness. A derivative designated as a hedging instrument must be
assessed as being highly effective in offsetting the designated risk of the
hedged item. Hedge effectiveness is formally assessed at inception and
periodically throughout the life of the designated hedging relationship.

     Under a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the hedging
derivative, including amounts measured as ineffectiveness, and changes in the
fair value of the hedged item related to the designated risk being hedged, are
reported within net investment gains (losses). The fair values of the hedging
derivatives are exclusive of any accruals that are separately reported in the
consolidated statements of income within interest income or interest expense to
match the location of the hedged item.

     Under a cash flow hedge, changes in the fair value of the hedging
derivative measured as effective are reported within other comprehensive income
(loss), a separate component of stockholder's equity, and the deferred gains or
losses on the derivative are reclassified into the consolidated statement of
income when the Company's earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows
of the hedged item. Changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument measured
as ineffectiveness are reported within net investment gains (losses). The fair
values of the hedging derivatives are exclusive of any accruals that are
separately reported in the consolidated statement of income within interest
income or interest expense to match the location of the hedged item.

     The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when: (i) it is
determined that the derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting
changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item; (ii) the derivative
expires, is sold, terminated, or exercised; (iii) it is no longer probable that
the hedged forecasted transaction will occur; (iv) a hedged firm commitment no
longer meets the definition of a firm commitment; or (v) the derivative is
de-designated as a hedging instrument.

     When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined that the
derivative is not highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or
cash flows of a hedged item, the derivative continues to be carried on the
consolidated balance sheet at its fair value, with changes in fair value
recognized currently in net investment gains (losses). The carrying value of the
hedged recognized asset or liability under a fair value hedge is no longer
adjusted for changes in its fair value due to the hedged risk, and the
cumulative adjustment to its carrying value is amortized into income over the
remaining life of the hedged item. Provided the hedged forecasted transaction is
still probable of occurrence, the changes in fair value of derivatives recorded
in other comprehensive income (loss) related to discontinued cash flow hedges
are released into the consolidated statement of income when the Company's
earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows of the hedged item.

                                       F-17
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is no longer probable that
the forecasted transactions will occur by the end of the specified time period
or the hedged item no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment, the
derivative continues to be carried on the consolidated balance sheet at its fair
value, with changes in fair value recognized currently in net investment gains
(losses). Any asset or liability associated with a recognized firm commitment is
derecognized from the consolidated balance sheet, and recorded currently in net
investment gains (losses). Deferred gains and losses of a derivative recorded in
other comprehensive income (loss) pursuant to the cash flow hedge of a
forecasted transaction are recognized immediately in net investment gains
(losses).

     In all other situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued, the
derivative is carried at its fair value on the consolidated balance sheet, with
changes in its fair value recognized in the current period as net investment
gains (losses).

     The Company is also a party to financial instruments that contain terms
which are deemed to be embedded derivatives. The Company assesses each
identified embedded derivative to determine whether it is required to be
bifurcated under SFAS 133. If the instrument would not be accounted for in its
entirety at fair value and it is determined that the terms of the embedded
derivative are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics
of the host contract, and that a separate instrument with the same terms would
qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated from
the host contract and accounted for as a freestanding derivative. Such embedded
derivatives are carried on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value with the
host contract and changes in their fair value are reported currently in net
investment gains (losses). If the Company is unable to properly identify and
measure an embedded derivative for separation from its host contract, the entire
contract is carried on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value, with
changes in fair value recognized in the current period in net investment gains
(losses).

  Cash and Cash Equivalents

     The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an
original or remaining maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase
to be cash equivalents. Certain securities of $83 million were reclassified to
cash equivalents from short-term investments due to the revised term to maturity
at the Acquisition Date.

  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired

     DAC represents the costs of acquiring new and renewal insurance business
that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of that business
are deferred. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency and
policy issue expenses. VOBA represents the present value of estimated future
profits to be generated from existing insurance contracts in-force at the
Acquisition Date.

     Generally, DAC and VOBA are amortized in proportion to the present value of
estimated gross profits from investment, mortality, expense margins and
surrender charges. Interest rates used to compute the present value of estimated
gross profits are based on rates in effect at the inception or acquisition of
the contracts.

     Actual gross profits can vary from management's estimates resulting in
increases or decreases in the rate of amortization. Management utilizes the
reversion to the mean assumption, a common industry practice, in its
determination of the amortization of DAC. This practice assumes that the
expectation for long-term equity investment appreciation is not changed by minor
short-term market fluctuations, but that it does change when large interim
deviations have occurred. Management periodically updates these estimates and
evaluates the recoverability of DAC. When appropriate, management revises its
assumptions of the estimated gross margins or profits of these contracts, and
the cumulative amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge
or credit to current operations.

                                       F-18
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     DAC and VOBA for non-participating traditional life and annuity policies
with life contingencies are amortized in proportion to anticipated premiums.
Assumptions as to anticipated premiums are made at the date of policy issuance
or acquisition and are consistently applied during the lives of the contracts.
Deviations from estimated experience are included in operations when they occur.
For these contracts, the amortization period is typically the estimated life of
the policy.

     Prior to the Acquisition, the Company amortized its deferred and payout
annuity contracts employing a level effective yield methodology, whereas
subsequent to the Acquisition, the Company amortizes DAC for deferred annuity
contracts in proportion to anticipated gross profits and payout annuity
contracts in proportion to anticipated premiums.

     Policy acquisition costs related to internally replaced contracts are
expensed at the date of replacement.

  Sales Inducements

     The Company has two different types of sales inducements which are included
in other assets: (i) the policyholder receives a bonus whereby the
policyholder's initial account balance is increased by an amount equal to a
specified percentage of the customer's deposit; and (ii) the policyholder
receives a higher interest rate using a dollar cost averaging method than would
have been received based on the normal general account interest rate credited.
The Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over the life of the
policy using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC.

  Goodwill

     Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired
and is as follows:

SUCCESSOR
                                                               -----------------
                                                               DECEMBER 31, 2005
                                                               -----------------
                                                                 (IN MILLIONS)
                                                              
BALANCE, END OF PREVIOUS PERIOD.............................         $ --
Effect of push down accounting of MetLife's purchase price
  on TLAC's net assets acquired (See Note 1)................          243
                                                                     ----
BALANCE, BEGINNING OF PERIOD................................          243
Dispositions and other......................................           --
                                                                     ----
BALANCE, BEGINNING AND END OF PERIOD........................         $243
                                                                     ====

Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually or
more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the
business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an
interim test. Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach,
which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the "reporting unit" level.
A reporting unit is the operating segment, or a business one level below that
operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly
reviewed by management at that level. If the carrying value of a reporting
unit's goodwill exceeds its fair value, the excess is recognized as an
impairment and recorded as a charge against net income. The fair values of the
reporting units are determined using a market multiple or a discounted cash flow
model.

  Liability for Future Policy Benefits and Policyholder Account Balances

     Overview

     Future policy benefit liabilities for non-participating traditional life
insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of the present value of future
benefit payments and related expenses less the present value of future net
premiums. Assumptions as to mortality and persistency are based upon the
Company's experience when

                                       F-19
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

the basis of the liability is established. For contracts in-force at the time of
the Acquisition, the Company revalued the liabilities using updated assumptions
as to interest rates, mortality, persistency and provisions for adverse
deviation which were current as of the time of the Acquisition. The interest
rate for future policy benefit liabilities on non-participating traditional life
insurance on the successor basis is approximately 4% at December 31, 2005. The
interest rates for the future policy benefit liabilities on the predecessor
basis ranged from 3% to 7% at December 31, 2004.

     Future policy benefit liabilities for individual and group traditional
fixed annuities after annuitization are equal to the present value of expected
future payments. The interest rates used in establishing such liabilities on the
successor basis range from 4% to 6% at December 31, 2005. The interest rates for
such liabilities on the predecessor basis ranged from 2% to 9% at December 31,
2004.

     Policyholder account balances relate to investment-type contracts and
universal life-type policies. Investment-type contracts principally include
traditional individual fixed annuities in the accumulation phase and
non-variable group annuity contracts. Policyholder account balances are equal to
(i) policy account values, which consist of an accumulation of gross premium
payments; (ii) credited interest, ranging from 0.5% to 8% on the successor basis
at December 31, 2005 and 1% to 8% on the predecessor basis at December 31, 2004,
less expenses, mortality charges, and withdrawals; and (iii) fair value purchase
accounting adjustments relating to the Acquisition.

  PRODUCT LIABILITY CLASSIFICATION CHANGES RESULTING FROM THE ACQUISITION

     Prior to the Acquisition, the Company determined the classification of its
single premium immediate annuities and structured settlements as investment or
insurance contracts at the contract level. As such, single premium immediate
annuities and structured settlements with life contingent payments were
classified and accounted for as "limited pay" long-duration insurance contracts
due to their significant mortality risk. The liability associated with these
contracts was reported in future policyholder benefits on the Company's
consolidated balance sheet. Contracts without life contingencies were classified
as investment contracts and were reported in policyholder account balances.

     Subsequent to the Acquisition, the Company classifies single premium
immediate annuities and structured settlements at the block of business level
which combines those contracts with life contingencies and those contracts
without life contingencies. In the aggregate, both the single premium immediate
annuities and structured settlements contain significant mortality risk.
Therefore, the Company accounts for all single premium immediate annuities and
structured settlements as long-duration insurance contracts and reports them as
future policyholder benefits.

     With respect to immediate participation guarantee contracts, contracts may
have funds associated with future life contingent payments on behalf of specific
lives, as well as unallocated funds not yet associated with specific lives or
future payments. Prior to the Acquisition, the Company classified and reported
funds within a contract that were associated with life contingent payments in
future policyholder benefits on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. All
other funds held with respect to those contracts were reported in policyholder
account balances on the Company's consolidated balance sheet.

     Prior to the Acquisition, the Company recorded its deferred annuity
contracts, including the guaranteed minimum death benefit ("GMDB") features, as
investment contracts. Subsequent to the Acquisition, the Company records such
contracts as insurance products. As a result, the Company has established a
future policyholder benefit liability for GMDBs in accordance with Statement of
Position ("SOP") 03-1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for
Certain Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts ("SOP
03-1").

     Subsequent to the Acquisition, the Company evaluates the immediate
participation guarantee contracts at the aggregate level. Based upon the
Company's current evaluation, all immediate participation guarantee

                                       F-20
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

contracts are accounted for as universal life contracts and are being reported
in policyholder account balances on the Company's consolidated balance sheet.

  GUARANTEES

     The Company establishes future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death
and income benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts and
secondary and paid up guarantees relating to certain life policies as follows:

     - Annuity guaranteed death benefit liabilities are determined by estimating
       the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected account
       balance and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period
       based on total expected assessments. The Company regularly evaluates
       estimates used and adjusts the additional liability balance, with a
       related charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or
       other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. The
       assumptions used in estimating the liabilities are consistent with those
       used for amortizing DAC, including the mean reversion assumption. The
       assumptions of investment performance and volatility are consistent with
       the historical experience of the capital markets. The benefits used in
       calculating the liabilities are based on the average benefits payable
       over a range of scenarios.

     - Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees and
       paid-up guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of
       death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero
       and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based
       on total expected assessments. The Company regularly evaluates estimates
       used and adjusts the additional liability balances, with a related charge
       or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence
       suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. The assumptions used
       in estimating the secondary and paid up guarantee liabilities are
       consistent with those used for amortizing DAC. The assumptions of
       investment performance and volatility for variable products are
       consistent with the historical experience of the capital markets. The
       benefits used in calculating the liabilities are based on the average
       benefits payable over a range of scenarios.

     The Company offers certain variable annuity products with guaranteed
minimum benefit riders as follows:

     - Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit riders ("GMWB"s) guarantee a
       policyholder return of the purchase payment plus a bonus amount via
       partial withdrawals, even if the account value is reduced to zero,
       provided that the policyholder's cumulative withdrawals in a contract
       year do not exceed a certain limit. The initial guaranteed withdrawal
       amount is equal to the initial benefit base as defined in the contract.
       When an additional purchase payment is made, the guaranteed withdrawal
       amount is set equal to the greater of (i) the guaranteed withdrawal
       amount before the purchase payment; or (ii) the benefit base after the
       purchase payment. The benefit base increases by additional purchase
       payments plus a bonus amount and decreases by benefits paid and/or
       withdrawal amounts. After a specified period of time, the benefit base
       may also change as a result of an optional reset as defined in the
       contract. The benefit base can be reset to the account balance on the
       date of the reset if greater than the benefit base before the reset. The
       GMWB is an embedded derivative, which is measured at fair value
       separately from the host variable annuity product.

     - Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit riders ("GMAB"s) provide the
       contractholder with a minimum accumulation of their purchase payments
       deposited within a specific time period, adjusted proportionately for
       withdrawals, after a specified period of time determined at the time of
       issuance of the variable annuity contract. The GMAB is also an embedded
       derivative, which is measured at fair value separately from the host
       variable annuity product.

                                       F-21
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The fair value of the GMWBs and GMABs is calculated based on actuarial and
capital market assumptions related to the projected cash flows, including
benefits and related contract charges, over the lives of the contracts,
incorporating expectations concerning policyholder behavior. In measuring the
fair value of GMWBs and GMABs, the Company attributes a portion of the fees
collected from the policyholder equal to the present value of expected future
guaranteed minimum withdrawal and accumulation benefits. GMWBs and GMABs are
reported in policyholder account balances and the changes in fair value are
reported in net investment gains (losses). Any additional fees represent
"excess" fees and are reported in universal life and investment-type product
policy fees.

  Other Policyholder Funds

     Other policyholder funds includes policy and contract claims and unearned
policy and contract fees.

  Recognition of Insurance Revenue and Related Benefits

     Premiums related to traditional life and annuity policies with life
contingencies are recognized as revenues when due. Benefits and expenses are
provided against such revenues to recognize profits over the estimated lives of
the policies. When premiums are due over a significantly shorter period than the
period over which benefits are provided, any excess profit is deferred and
recognized into operations in a constant relationship to insurance in-force or,
for annuities, the amount of expected future policy benefit payments.

     Deposits related to universal life-type and investment-type products are
credited to policyholder account balances. Revenues from such contracts consist
of amounts assessed against policyholder account balances for mortality, policy
administration and surrender charges and are recorded in universal life and
investment-type product policy fees in the period in which services are
provided. Amounts that are charged to operations include interest credited and
benefit claims incurred in excess of related policyholder account balances.

  Other Revenues

     Other revenues include surrender penalties collected at the time of a
contract surrender and other miscellaneous charges related to annuity and
universal life contracts recognized when received.

  Federal Income Taxes

     The future tax consequences of temporary differences between financial
reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities are measured at the balance
sheet dates and are recorded as deferred income tax assets and liabilities.
Valuation allowances are established when management assesses, based on
available information, that it is more likely than not that deferred income tax
assets will not be realized.

     For federal income tax purposes, an election under Internal Revenue Code
Section 338 was made by the Company's ultimate parent, MetLife. As a result of
this election, the income tax bases in the acquired assets and liabilities were
adjusted as of the Acquisition Date resulting in a change to the related
deferred income taxes. See Notes 1 and 7.

  Reinsurance

     The Company has reinsured certain of its life insurance contracts with
other insurance companies under various agreements. For reinsurance contracts
that transfer sufficient underwriting risk, reinsurance premiums, commissions,
expense reimbursements, benefits and liabilities related to reinsured
long-duration contracts are accounted for over the life of the underlying
reinsured contracts using assumptions consistent with those used to account for
the underlying contracts. The cost of reinsurance related to short-duration
contracts is accounted for over the reinsurance contract period. Amounts due
from reinsurers, for both short- and long-
                                       F-22
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

duration arrangements, are estimated based upon assumptions consistent with
those used in establishing the liabilities related to the underlying reinsured
contracts. Policy and contract liabilities are reported gross of reinsurance
credits. DAC and VOBA are reduced by amounts recovered under reinsurance
contracts. Amounts received from reinsurers for policy administration are
reported in other revenues.

  Separate Accounts

     Separate accounts are established in conformity with insurance laws and are
generally not chargeable with liabilities that arise from any other business of
the Company. Separate account assets are subject to general account claims only
to the extent the value of such assets exceeds the separate account liabilities.
Effective with the adoption of SOP 03-1 on January 1, 2004, the Company reports
separately, as assets and liabilities, investments held in separate accounts and
liabilities of the separate accounts if (i) such separate accounts are legally
recognized; (ii) assets supporting the contract liabilities are legally
insulated from the Company's general account liabilities; (iii) investments are
directed by the contractholder; and (iv) all investment performance, net of
contract fees and assessments, is passed through to the contractholder. The
Company reports separate account assets meeting such criteria at their fair
value. Investment performance (including investment income, net investment gains
(losses) and changes in unrealized gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts
credited to contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the same
line in the consolidated statements of income. See "-- Application of Recent
Accounting Pronouncements."

     The Company's revenues reflect fees charged to the separate accounts,
including mortality charges, risk charges, policy administration fees,
investment management fees and surrender charges. Separate accounts not meeting
the above criteria are combined on a line-by-line basis with the Company's
general account assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.

  APPLICATION OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In February 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Instruments ("SFAS 155"). SFAS 155
amends SFAS 133 and SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of
Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities ("SFAS 140"). SFAS 155
allows financial instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for
as a whole, eliminating the need to bifurcate the derivative from its host, if
the holder elects to account for the whole instrument on a fair value basis. In
addition, among other changes, SFAS 155 (i) clarifies which interest-only strips
and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133; (ii)
establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets
to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid
financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation;
(iii) clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination
are not embedded derivatives; and (iv) eliminates the prohibition on a
qualifying special-purpose entity ("QSPE") from holding a derivative financial
instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative
financial interest. SFAS 155 will be applied prospectively and is effective for
all financial instruments acquired or issued for fiscal years beginning after
September 15, 2006. SFAS 155 is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company's consolidated financial statements. The FASB has issued additional
guidance relating to derivative financial instruments as follows:

     - In June 2005, the FASB cleared SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B38,
       Embedded Derivatives: Evaluation of Net Settlement with Respect to the
       Settlement of a Debt Instrument through Exercise of an Embedded Put
       Option or Call Option ("Issue B38") and SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No.
       B39, Embedded Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Call Options
       That Are Exercisable Only by the Debtor ("Issue B39"). Issue B38
       clarified that the potential settlement of a debtor's obligation to a
       creditor occurring upon exercise of a put or call option meets the net
       settlement criteria

                                       F-23
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

       of SFAS No. 133. Issue B39 clarified that an embedded call option, in
       which the underlying is an interest rate or interest rate index, that can
       accelerate the settlement of a debt host financial instrument should not
       be bifurcated and fair valued if the right to accelerate the settlement
       can be exercised only by the debtor (issuer/borrower) and the investor
       will recover substantially all of its initial net investment. Issues B38
       and B39, which must be adopted as of the first day of the first fiscal
       quarter beginning after December 15, 2005, did not have a material impact
       on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     - Effective July 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 149, Amendment of
       Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS
       149"). SFAS 149 amended and clarified the accounting and reporting for
       derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded
       in other contracts, and for hedging activities. Except for certain
       previously issued and effective guidance, SFAS 149 was effective for
       contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003. The Company's
       adoption of SFAS 149 did not have a significant impact on its
       consolidated financial statements.

     Effective November 9, 2005, the Company prospectively adopted the guidance
in FASB Staff Position ("FSP") 140-2, Clarification of the Application of
Paragraphs 40(b) and 40(c) of FAS 140 ("FSP 140-2"). FSP 140-2 clarified certain
criteria relating to derivatives and beneficial interests when considering
whether an entity qualifies as a QSPE. Under FSP 140-2, the criteria must only
be met at the date the QSPE issues beneficial interests or when a derivative
financial instrument needs to be replaced upon the occurrence of a specified
event outside the control of the transferor. FSP 140-2 did not have a material
impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     In September 2005, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
("AICPA") issued SOP 05-1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred
Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
Contracts ("SOP 05-1"). SOP 05-1 provides guidance on accounting by insurance
enterprises for deferred acquisition costs on internal replacements of insurance
and investment contracts other than those specifically described in SFAS No. 97,
Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration
Contracts and For Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments. SOP
05-1 defines an internal replacement as a modification in product benefits,
features, rights, or coverages that occurs by the exchange of a contract for a
new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by the
election of a feature or coverage within a contract. Under SOP 05-1,
modifications that result in a substantially unchanged contract will be
accounted for as a continuation of the replaced contract. A replacement contract
that is substantially changed will be accounted for as an extinguishment of the
replaced contract resulting in a release of unamortized deferred acquisition
costs, unearned revenue and deferred sales inducements associated with the
replaced contract. The guidance in SOP 05-1 will be applied prospectively and is
effective for internal replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2006. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SOP 05-1
and does not expect that the pronouncement will have a material impact on the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

     Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of
Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion
No. 29 ("SFAS 153"). SFAS 153 amended prior guidance to eliminate the exception
for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaced it with a
general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have
commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the
future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result
of the exchange. The provisions of SFAS 153 were required to be applied
prospectively for fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of
SFAS 153 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial
statements.

                                       F-24
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In June 2005, the FASB completed its review of Emerging Issues Task Force
("EITF") Issue No. 03-1, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its
Application to Certain Investments ("EITF 03-1"). EITF 03-1 provides accounting
guidance regarding the determination of when an impairment of debt and
marketable equity securities and investments accounted for under the cost method
should be considered other-than-temporary and recognized in income. EITF 03-1
also requires certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures for debt and
marketable equity securities classified as available-for-sale or held-to-
maturity under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities ("SFAS 115"), that are impaired at the balance sheet date but
for which an other-than-temporary impairment has not been recognized. The FASB
decided not to provide additional guidance on the meaning of
other-than-temporary impairment but has issued FSP 115-1, The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments ("FSP
115-1"), which nullifies the accounting guidance on the determination of whether
an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired as set forth in EITF 03-1. As
required by FSP 115-1, the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis,
which had no material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements
and has provided the required disclosure.

     In June 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 04-5, Determining
Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a
Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain
Rights ("EITF 04-5"). EITF 04-5 provides a framework for determining whether a
general partner controls and should consolidate a limited partnership or a
similar entity in light of certain rights held by the limited partners. The
consensus also provides additional guidance on substantive rights. EITF 04-5 was
effective after June 29, 2005 for all newly formed partnerships and for any
pre-existing limited partnerships that modified their partnership agreements
after that date. The adoption of this provision of EITF 04-5 did not have a
material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. EITF 04-5
must be adopted by January 1, 2006 for all other limited partnerships through a
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle recorded in opening equity
or it may be applied retrospectively by adjusting prior period financial
statements. The adoption of this provision of EITF 04-5 did not have a material
impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error
Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 ("SFAS
154"). The statement requires retrospective application to prior periods'
financial statements for a voluntary change in accounting principle unless it is
deemed impracticable. It also requires that a change in the method of
depreciation, amortization, or depletion for long-lived, non-financial assets be
accounted for as a change in accounting estimate rather than a change in
accounting principle. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and
corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005.
The adoption of SFAS 154 did not have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial statements.

     Effective July 1, 2004, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 03-16,
Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies ("EITF 03-16"). EITF
03-16 provides guidance regarding whether a limited liability company should be
viewed as similar to a corporation or similar to a partnership for purposes of
determining whether a noncontrolling investment should be accounted for using
the cost method or the equity method of accounting. EITF 03-16 did not have a
material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

     Effective January 1, 2004, the Company adopted SOP 03-1 as interpreted by a
Technical Practice Aid issued by the AICPA. SOP 03-1 provides guidance on (i)
the classification and valuation of long-duration contract liabilities; (ii) the
accounting for sales inducements; and (iii) separate account presentation and

                                       F-25
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

valuation. The following summarizes the more significant aspects of the
Company's adoption of SOP 03-1 prior to the Acquisition, effective January 1,
2004:

          Separate Account Presentation.  SOP 03-1 requires separate account
     products to meet certain criteria in order to be treated as separate
     account products. For products not meeting the specified criteria, these
     assets and liabilities are included in the reporting entity's general
     account.

          Variable Annuity Contracts with Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefit
     Features.  SOP 03-1 requires the reporting entity to categorize the
     contract as either an insurance or investment contract based upon the
     significance of mortality or morbidity risk. SOP 03-1 provides explicit
     guidance for calculating a liability for insurance contracts, and provides
     that the reporting entity does not hold liabilities for investment
     contracts (i.e., there is no significant mortality risk).

          Liabilities for Universal Life and Variable Universal Life
     Contracts.  SOP 03-1 requires that a liability, in addition to the account
     balance, be established for certain insurance benefit features provided
     under universal life and variable universal life products if the amounts
     assessed against the contract holder each period for the insurance benefit
     feature are assessed in a manner that is expected to result in profits in
     earlier years and losses in subsequent years from the insurance benefit
     function.

          The Company's universal life and variable universal life products were
     reviewed to determine whether an additional liability is required under SOP
     03-1. The Company determined that SOP 03-1 applied to some of its universal
     life and variable universal life contracts with these features and
     established an additional liability of less than $1 million.

          Sales Inducements to Contractholders.  In accordance with SOP 03-1,
     the Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over the life of
     the policy using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC.
     These inducements relate to bonuses on certain products offered by the
     Company.

     Effective the third quarter of 2003, the Company adopted FASB
Interpretation ("FIN") No. 46 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities -- An
Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 ("FIN 46") and its
December 2003 revision ("FIN 46(r)"), which includes substantial changes from
the original FIN 46. Included in these changes, the calculation of expected
losses and expected residual returns has been altered to reduce the impact of
decision maker and guarantor fees in the calculation of expected residual
returns and expected losses. In addition, the definition of a variable interest
has been changed in the revised guidance.

     FIN 46 and FIN 46(r) change the method of determining whether certain
entities, including securitization entities, should be consolidated in the
Company's financial statements. An entity is subject to FIN 46 and FIN 46(r) and
is called a variable interest entity ("VIE") if it has (i) equity that is
insufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support from other parties; or (ii) equity investors that
cannot make significant decisions about the entity's operations or that do not
absorb the expected losses or receive the expected returns of the entity. All
other entities are evaluated for consolidation under SFAS No. 94, Consolidation
of All Majority-Owned Subsidiaries. A VIE is consolidated by its primary
beneficiary, which is the party involved with the VIE that has a majority of the
expected losses or a majority of the expected residual returns or both.

     The adoption of the provisions of FIN 46(r) during the third quarter of
2003 did not require the Company to consolidate any additional VIEs that were
not previously consolidated.

     Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 146, Accounting for
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities ("SFAS 146"). SFAS 146
requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal
activity be recorded and measured initially at fair value only when the
liability is incurred rather

                                       F-26
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

than at the date of an entity's commitment to an exit plan as required by EITF
Issue No. 94-3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits
and Other Costs to Exit an Activity Including Certain Costs Incurred in a
Restructuring ("EITF 94-3"). As required by SFAS 146, the Company adopted this
guidance on a prospective basis which had no material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial statements.

3.  INVESTMENTS

  FIXED MATURITIES BY SECTOR AND EQUITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE

     The following tables set forth the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized
gain and loss, and estimated fair value of the Company's fixed maturities by
sector and equity securities, the percentage of the total fixed maturities
holdings that each sector represents and the percentage of the total equity
securities at:

F-27
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The Company is not exposed to any significant concentration of credit risk
in its U.S. and foreign corporate fixed maturities portfolio, other than those
disclosed below:

- ---------------

(1) Communications includes telecommunications, media cable and media non-cable.

(2) Capital goods includes aerospace, building materials, conglomerates,
    construction machine, containers, defense, packaging and environmental.

(3) Basic industry includes chemicals, metals, and paper.

     The Company held fixed maturities at estimated fair values that were below
investment grade or not rated by an independent rating agency that totaled $395
million and $501 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These
securities had a net unrealized gain (loss) of ($10) million and $42 million at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company held non-income producing
fixed maturities at

                                       F-28
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

estimated fair values of $2 million and $5 million at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. Unrealized gains (losses) associated with non-income
producing fixed maturities were ($3) million and $1 million at December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively.

     The cost or amortized cost and estimated fair value of bonds at December
31, 2005 and 2004, by contractual maturity date (excluding scheduled sinking
funds), are shown below:

Bonds not due at a single maturity date have been included in the above
table in the year of final contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ
from contractual maturities due to the exercise of prepayment options.

     The Company makes investments in collateralized mortgage obligations
("CMOs"). CMOs typically have high credit quality, offer good liquidity, and
provide a significant advantage in yield and total return compared to U.S.
Treasury securities. The Company's investment strategy is to purchase CMO
tranches which are protected against prepayment risk, including planned
amortization class and last cash flow tranches. Prepayment protected tranches
are preferred because they provide stable cash flows in a variety of interest
rate scenarios. The Company does invest in other types of CMO tranches if a
careful assessment indicates a favorable risk/return tradeoff. The Company does
not purchase residual interests in CMOs.

     At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company held CMOs classified as
available-for-sale with a fair value of $644 million and $235 million,
respectively. Approximately 79% and 78% of the Company's CMO holdings were fully
collateralized by the Government National Mortgage Association ("GNMA"), the
Federal National Mortgage Association ("FNMA") or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation ("FHLMC") securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In
addition, the Company held $361 million and $396 million of GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC
mortgage-backed pass-through securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. All of these securities are rated AAA by the major rating
agencies.

                                       F-29
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Sales or disposals of fixed maturities and equity securities classified as
available-for-sale were as follows:

There were no gross investment losses above that exclude writedowns
recorded during the six months ended December 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005. Gross
investment losses exclude writedowns recorded during the years ended December
31, 2004 and 2003 for other-than-temporarily impaired available-for-sale fixed
maturities and equity securities of $7 million and $11 million, respectively.

     The Company periodically disposes of fixed maturity and equity securities
at a loss. Generally, such losses are insignificant in amount or in relation to
the cost basis of the investment or are attributable to declines in fair value
occurring in the period of disposition.

  UNREALIZED LOSSES FOR FIXED MATURITIES AND EQUITY SECURITIES
  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE

     The following tables show the estimated fair values and gross unrealized
losses of the Company's fixed maturities (aggregated by sector) and equity
securities in an unrealized loss position, aggregated by length of time that the
securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at December 31,
2005 and 2004:

F-30
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

AGING OF GROSS UNREALIZED LOSSES FOR FIXED MATURITIES AND EQUITY SECURITIES
  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE

     The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized
losses and number of securities for fixed maturities and equity securities at
December 31, 2005 and 2004 where the estimated fair value had declined and
remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20% or 20% or more for:

F-31
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

As of December 31, 2005, $119 million of unrealized losses related to
securities with an unrealized loss position less than 20% of cost or amortized
cost, which represented 2% of the cost or amortized cost of such securities. As
of December 31, 2004, $7 million of unrealized losses related to securities with
an unrealized loss position less than 20% of cost or amortized cost, which
represented 1% of the cost or amortized cost of such securities.

     As of December 31, 2005, $6 million of unrealized losses related to
securities with an unrealized loss position greater than 20% of cost or
amortized cost, which represented 43% of the cost or amortized cost of such
securities. Of such unrealized losses of $6 million, all have been in an
unrealized loss position for a period of less than six months. As of December
31, 2004, there were no unrealized losses related to securities with an
unrealized loss position greater than 20% of cost or amortized cost.

     As described more fully in Note 2, the Company performs a regular
evaluation, on a security-by-security basis, of its investment holdings in
accordance with its impairment policy in order to evaluate whether such
securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. In connection with the
Acquisition, the Company's investment portfolio was revalued in accordance with
purchase accounting as of July 1, 2005. The increase in the unrealized losses
during 2005 is principally driven by an increase in interest rates since the
portfolio revaluation at the Acquisition Date. Based upon the Company's
evaluation of the securities in accordance with its impairment policy, the cause
of the decline being principally attributable to the general rise in rates
during the year, and the Company's intent and ability to hold the fixed income
and equity securities with unrealized losses for a period of time sufficient for
them to recover, the Company has concluded that the aforementioned securities
are not other-than-temporarily impaired.

  SECURITIES LENDING PROGRAM

     The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby blocks of
securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities, are loaned to third
parties, primarily major brokerage firms. The Company requires a minimum of 102%
of the fair value of the loaned securities to be separately maintained as
collateral for the loans. There were no securities on loan under the program at
December 31, 2005. Securities with a cost or amortized cost of $105 million and
an estimated fair value of $109 million were on loan under the program at
December 31, 2004. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or
repledged by the transferee. The Company was not liable for any cash collateral
under its control at December 31, 2005. The Company was liable for cash
collateral under its control of $114 million at December 31, 2004. Securities
loaned transactions are accounted for as financing arrangements on the Company's
consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows and the
income and expenses associated with the program are reported in net investment
income as investment income and investment expenses, respectively. There was

                                       F-32
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

no security collateral on deposit from customers at December 31, 2005 in
connection with securities lending transactions. In connection with securities
lending transactions, there was security collateral of $24 million on deposit
from customers at December 31, 2004. Security collateral on deposit from
customers may not be sold or repledged and is not reflected in the consolidated
financial statements.

  ASSETS ON DEPOSIT AND HELD IN TRUST

     The Company had investment assets on deposit with regulatory agencies with
a fair market value of $5 million both at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, consisting primarily of fixed maturity securities. The Company had
no securities held in trust to satisfy collateral requirements at December 31,
2005 and 2004.

  MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE

     At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company's mortgage loans on real estate
consisted of the following:

Underperforming assets include delinquent mortgage loans over 90 days past
due, loans in the process of foreclosure and loans modified at interest rates
below market.

     Mortgage loans are collaterized by properties located in the United States.
At December 31, 2005, approximately 27%, 16%, and 16% of the properties were
located in California, New York and Maryland, respectively. Generally, the
Company, as a lender, only loans up to 75% of the purchase price on the
underlying real estate.

  NET INVESTMENT INCOME

     The components of net investment income were as follows:

F-33
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  NET INVESTMENT GAINS (LOSSES)

     Net investment gains (losses) were as follows:

- ---------------

(1) Subsequent to the Acquisition, the Company's investment portfolio was
    repositioned, resulting in significant net investment losses during the six
    months ended December 31, 2005. Such losses resulted from the sale of
    securities during a period of rising interest rates.

  NET UNREALIZED INVESTMENT GAINS (LOSSES)

     The components of net unrealized investment gains (losses), included in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), were as follows:

F-34
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The changes in net unrealized investment gains (losses) were as follows:

VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES

     The following table presents the total assets of and maximum exposure to
loss relating to VIEs for which the Company has concluded that it holds
significant variable interests but it is not the primary beneficiary and which
have not been consolidated:

- ---------------

(1) The assets of the other limited partnerships are reflected at the carrying
    amounts at which such assets would have been reflected on the Company's
    consolidated balance sheet had the Company consolidated the VIE from the
    date of its initial investment in the entity.

(2) The maximum exposure to loss of the other limited partnerships is equal to
    the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments, reduced by amounts
    guaranteed by other partners.

(3) Other limited partnerships include partnerships established for the purpose
    of investing in public and private debt and equity securities.

4.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

  TYPES OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

     On the Acquisition Date, derivative revaluation gains were reclassified
from other assets to other invested assets to conform with MetLife's
presentation.

     At the Acquisition Date, the Company's derivative positions which
previously qualified for hedge accounting were dedesignated in accordance with
SFAS 133. Such derivative positions were not redesignated

                                       F-35
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

in hedging relationships. Accordingly, all changes in such derivative fair
values for the six months ended December 31, 2005 are recorded in net investment
gains (losses).

     The following table provides a summary of the notional amounts and current
market or fair value of derivative financial instruments held at:

The above table does not include notional values for equity futures, equity
financial forwards, and equity options. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the
Company owned 413 and 164 equity futures contracts, respectively. Equity futures
market values are included in financial futures in the preceding table. At
December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company owned 36,500 and 72,900 equity financial
forwards, respectively. Equity financial forwards market values are included in
financial forwards in the preceding table. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the
Company owned 1,058,300 and 881,350 equity options, respectively. Equity options
market values are included in options in the preceding table. The notional
amount related to equity options for 2004 has been removed from the above table
to conform to 2005 presentation.

     The following table provides a summary of the notional amounts of
derivative financial instruments by maturity at December 31, 2005:

Interest rate swaps are used by the Company primarily to reduce market
risks from changes in interest rates and to alter interest rate exposure arising
from mismatches between assets and liabilities (duration mismatches). In an
interest rate swap, the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at
specified intervals, the difference between fixed rate and floating rate
interest amounts as calculated by reference to an

                                       F-36
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

agreed notional principal amount. These transactions are entered into pursuant
to master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by the
counterparty at each due date.

     In exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) and equity futures
transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of
contracts, the value of which is determined by the different classes of interest
rate and equity securities, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an
amount equal to the difference in the daily market values of those contracts.
The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated futures
commission merchants that are members of the exchange.

     Exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures are used
primarily to hedge mismatches between the duration of assets in a portfolio and
the duration of liabilities supported by those assets, to hedge against changes
in value of securities the Company owns or anticipates acquiring and to hedge
against changes in interest rates on anticipated liability issuances by
replicating Treasury or swap curve performance. The value of interest rate
futures is substantially impacted by changes in interest rates and they can be
used to modify or hedge existing interest rate risk.

     Exchange-traded equity futures are used primarily to hedge liabilities
embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company.

     Foreign currency derivatives, including foreign currency swaps and foreign
currency forwards are used by the Company to reduce the risk from fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates associated with its assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies.

     In a foreign currency swap transaction, the Company agrees with another
party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between one currency
and another at a forward exchange rate calculated by reference to an agreed upon
principal amount. The principal amount of each currency is exchanged at the
inception and termination of the currency swap by each party.

     In a foreign currency forward transaction, the Company agrees with another
party to deliver a specified amount of an identified currency at a specified
future date. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment
for such a contract is made in a different currency at the specified future
date.

     Equity index options are used by the Company primarily to hedge minimum
guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company.
To hedge against adverse changes in equity indices, the Company enters into
contracts to sell the equity index within a limited time at a contracted price.
The contracts will be net settled in cash based on differentials in the indices
at time of exercise and the strike price. Equity index options are included in
options in the preceding table.

     Equity variance swaps are used by the Company primarily to hedge minimum
guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company.
In an equity variance swap, the Company agrees with another party to exchange
amounts in the future, based on changes in equity volatility over a defined
period. Equity variance swaps are included in financial forwards in the
preceding table.

     Certain credit default swaps are used by the Company to hedge against
credit-related changes in the value of its investments and to diversify its
credit risk exposure in certain portfolios. In a credit default swap
transaction, the Company agrees with another party, at specified intervals, to
pay a premium to insure credit risk. If a credit event, as defined by the
contract, occurs, generally the contract will require the swap to be settled
gross by the delivery of par quantities of the referenced investment equal to
the specified swap notional in exchange for the payment of cash amounts by the
counterparty equal to the par value of the investment surrendered.

                                       F-37
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  HEDGING

     The table below provides a summary of the notional amount and fair value of
derivatives by type of hedge designation at:

FAIR VALUE HEDGES

     The Company designates and accounts for the following as fair value hedges
when they have met the requirements of SFAS 133: (i) interest rate swaps to
convert fixed rate investments to floating rate investments; (ii) foreign
currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency fair value exposure of foreign
currency denominated investments and liabilities; and (iii) interest rate
futures to hedge against changes in value of fixed rate investments.

     The Company recognized net investment gains (losses) representing the
ineffective portion of all fair value hedges as follows:

All components of each derivative's gain or loss were included in the
assessment of hedge ineffectiveness, except for financial futures where the time
value component of the derivative has been excluded from the assessment of
ineffectiveness. For the six months ended June 30, 2005 and the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, the cost of carry for financial futures was ($1)
million, ($4) million, and ($3) million, respectively.

     There were no instances in which the Company discontinued fair value hedge
accounting due to a hedged firm commitment no longer qualifying as a fair value
hedge.

  CASH FLOW HEDGES

     The Company designates and accounts for the following as cash flow hedges,
when they have met the requirements of SFAS 133: (i) interest rate swaps to
convert floating rate investments to fixed rate investments; and (ii) foreign
currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency cash flow exposure of foreign
currency denominated investments and liabilities.

                                       F-38
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     For the six months ended December 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005, and the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company did not recognize any net
investment gains (losses) related to the assessment of hedge ineffectiveness.
All components of each derivative's gain or loss were included in the assessment
of hedge ineffectiveness. For the six months ended December 31, 2005 and June
30, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, there were no
instances in which the Company discontinued cash flow hedge accounting because
the forecasted transactions did not occur on the anticipated date or in the
additional time period permitted by SFAS 133. There were no hedged forecasted
transactions, other than the receipt or payment of variable interest payments.

     Presented below is a rollforward of the components of other comprehensive
income (loss), before income taxes, related to cash flow hedges:

NON-QUALIFYING DERIVATIVES AND DERIVATIVES FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN HEDGING

     The Company enters into the following derivatives that do not qualify for
hedge accounting under SFAS 133 or for purposes other than hedging: (i) interest
rate swaps and interest rate futures to minimize its exposure to interest rate
volatility; (ii) foreign currency forwards and swaps to minimize its exposure to
adverse movements in exchange rates; (iii) credit default swaps to minimize its
exposure to adverse movements in credit; and (iv) equity futures, equity index
options, and equity variance swaps to economically hedge liabilities embedded in
certain variable annuity products.

     Effective at the Acquisition Date, the Company's derivative positions which
previously qualified for hedge accounting were dedesignated in accordance with
SFAS 133. Such derivative positions were not redesignated and were included with
the Company's other non-qualifying derivative positions from the Acquisition
Date through December 31, 2005. For the six months ended December 31, 2005 and
June 30, 2005, and the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company
recognized as net investment gains (losses) changes in fair value of $9 million,
$9 million, ($20) million and ($64) million, respectively, related to
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting.

  EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES

     The Company has certain embedded derivatives that are required to be
separated from their host contracts and accounted for as derivatives. These host
contracts include guaranteed minimum accumulation and withdrawal benefits. The
fair value of the Company's embedded derivative liabilities was $22 million and
$72 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The amounts recorded in
net investment gains (losses) for the six months ended December 31, 2005 and
June 30, 2005 and during the year ended

                                       F-39
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

December 31, 2004 were gains (losses) of $23 million, ($2) million, and $19
million, respectively. There were no investment gains (losses) associated with
embedded derivatives during the year ended December 31, 2003.

  CREDIT RISK

     The Company may be exposed to credit related losses in the event of
nonperformance by counterparties to derivative financial instruments. Generally,
the current credit exposure of the Company's derivative contracts is limited to
the fair value at the reporting date. The credit exposure of the Company's
derivative transactions is represented by the fair value of contracts with a net
positive fair value at the reporting date.

     As noted above, the Company manages its credit risk related to
over-the-counter derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy
counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through the use of
master agreements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one
counterparty to another at each due date and upon termination. Because exchange
traded futures are effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are
marked to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to credit
related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to such
derivative instruments.

     The Company enters into various collateral arrangements, which require both
the pledging and accepting of collateral in connection with its derivative
instruments. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company was obligated to
return cash collateral under its control of $108 million and $94 million,
respectively. This unrestricted cash collateral is included in cash and cash
equivalents and the obligation to return it is included in payables for
collateral under securities loaned and other transactions in the consolidated
balance sheet. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had also accepted
collateral consisting of various securities with a fair market value of $22
million and $8 million, respectively, which is held in separate custodial
accounts. The Company is permitted by contract to sell or repledge this
collateral, but as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, none of the collateral had
been sold or repledged. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had not pledged any
collateral related to derivative instruments.

                                       F-40
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

5.  INSURANCE

  DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS AND VALUE OF BUSINESS ACQUIRED

     Information regarding DAC and VOBA for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2004, and the six months ended June 30, 2005 and December 31, 2005, is as
follows:

The estimated future amortization expense for the next five years allocated
to other expenses for VOBA is $179 million in 2006, $170 million in 2007, $158
million in 2008, $147 million in 2009 and $132 million in 2010.

     Amortization of VOBA and DAC is related to (i) investment gains and losses
and the impact of such gains and losses on the amount of the amortization; (ii)
unrealized investment gains and losses to provide information regarding the
amount that would have been amortized if such gains and losses had been
recognized; and (iii) other expenses to provide amounts related to the gross
profits originating from transactions other than investment gains and losses.

                                       F-41
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  VALUE OF DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS

     Changes in value of distribution agreements ("VODA"), which are reported
within other assets in the consolidated balance sheet, are as follows:

The estimated future amortization expense of the VODA is $1 million per
year for each of the years from 2006 to 2010.

  SALES INDUCEMENTS

     Changes in deferred sales inducements are as follows:

GUARANTEES

     The Company issues annuity contracts which may include contractual
guarantees to the contractholder for the highest contract value on a specified
anniversary date minus any withdrawals following the contract anniversary, or
total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum
return ("anniversary contract value" or "minimum return"). These guarantees
include benefits that are payable in the event of death.

     The Company also issues universal and variable life contracts where the
Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder a secondary guarantee.

                                       F-42
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The Company had the following types of guarantees relating to annuity and
universal and variable life contracts at:

  ANNUITY CONTRACTS

- ---------------

(1) The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts in the event of death is
    defined as the current guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the
    current account balance at the balance sheet date.

(2) The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts at annuitization is defined
    as the present value of the minimum guaranteed annuity payments available to
    the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract
    in excess of the current account balance.

  UNIVERSAL AND VARIABLE LIFE CONTRACTS

- ---------------

(1) The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts in the event of death is
    defined as the current guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the
    current account balance at the balance sheet date.

     The net amount at risk is based on the direct amount at risk (excluding
reinsurance).

     The Company's annuity and life contracts with guarantees may offer more
than one type of guarantee in each contract. Therefore, the amounts listed above
may not be mutually exclusive.

     Liabilities incurred, relating to annuity contracts, for guaranteed death
benefits were $1 million for the six months ended December 31, 2005. There were
no guaranteed death benefits incurred for the six months ended June 30, 2005 or
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Liabilities incurred, relating to
universal and variable life contracts, for secondary guarantees were $4 million
for each of the six months ended December 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 and $1
million for each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.

                                       F-43
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Account balances of contracts with insurance guarantees are invested in
separate account asset classes as follows:

SEPARATE ACCOUNTS

     Separate account assets and liabilities include pass-through separate
accounts totaling $12,179 million and $11,631 million at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively, for which the policyholder assumes all investment risk.
There are no separate accounts for which the Company contractually guarantees
either a minimum return or account value at December 31, 2005 and 2004.

     Fees charged to the separate accounts by the Company (including mortality
charges, policy administration fees and surrender charges) are reflected in the
Company's revenues as universal life and investment-type product policy fees and
totaled $115 million, $95 million, $200 million and $127 million for the six
months ended December 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 and the years ended December
31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

     The Company did not have any proportional interest in separate accounts for
fixed maturities, equity securities, and cash and cash equivalents reported on
the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2005.

     For the six months ended December 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 and the year
ended December 31, 2004, there were no investment gains (losses) on transfers of
assets from the general account to the separate accounts.

6.  REINSURANCE

     Since 1997, the majority of the Company's universal life business has been
reinsured under an 80% ceded/20% retained yearly renewable term ("YRT") quota
share reinsurance program and its term life business has been reinsured under a
90%/10% YRT quota share reinsurance program. Beginning in September 2002, newly
issued term life business has been reinsured under a 90%/10% coinsurance quota
share reinsurance program. Subsequently, portions of this term coinsurance have
reverted to YRT for new business. Effective May 1, 2005, the Company's quota
share program for YRT and coinsurance changed to 70%/30%. Within its normal
course of business, the Company may retain up to $5 million per life and
reinsures 100% of amounts in excess of the Company's retention limits.
Generally, the maximum retention on an ordinary life risk is $2.5 million.
Maximum retention of $2.5 million is generally reached on policies in excess of
$12.5 million for universal life and $25 million for term insurance. Under
certain circumstances, the Company may elect to retain up to $25 million per
life. For other plans of insurance, it is the policy of the Company to obtain
reinsurance for amounts above certain retention limits on individual life
policies, which limits vary with age and underwriting classification. Total
in-force business ceded under reinsurance contracts is $48.6 billion and $44.3
billion at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company evaluates its

                                       F-44
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease its retention at any
time. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis and also
on a facultative basis for risks of specific characteristics.

     In addition to reinsuring mortality risk, the Company reinsures other risks
and specific coverages. The Company routinely reinsures certain classes of risks
to limit its exposure to particular travel, avocation and lifestyle hazards. The
Company uses excess of loss and quota share reinsurance arrangements to limit
its maximum loss, provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure
to larger risks.

     The Company reinsures its business through a diversified group of
reinsurers. No single unaffiliated reinsurer has a material obligation to the
Company nor is the Company's business substantially dependent upon any
reinsurance contracts. The Company is contingently liable with respect to ceded
reinsurance should any reinsurer be unable to meet its obligations under these
agreements.

     Prior to April 1, 2001, the Company reinsured the GMDB rider exposure on
its variable annuity products. In 2004, The Travelers Life and Annuity
Reinsurance Company ("TLARC") was formed as a pure captive insurer in order to
permit TLAC and TIC to cede 100% of their risk associated with the secondary
death benefit guarantee rider on certain universal life contracts. As part of
the Acquisition TLARC became a direct subsidiary of MetLife. See Note 13.

     Total variable annuity account balances with GMDB riders were $14.5
billion, of which $4.7 billion, or 33%, was reinsured, and $11.1 billion, of
which $4.8 billion, or 43%, is reinsured at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. GMDBs are payable upon the death of the contractholder. When
benefits payable are greater than the account value of the variable annuity, the
difference is called the net amount at risk ("NAR"). NAR totals $569 million, of
which $525 million, or 92%, is reinsured and $727 million, of which $670
million, or 90%, is reinsured at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

     The amounts in the consolidated statements of income are presented net of
reinsurance ceded. The effects of reinsurance were as follows:

Written premiums are not materially different than earned premiums presented in
the preceding table.

     Reinsurance recoverables, included in premiums and other receivables, were
$77 million and $44 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Reinsurance premiums and ceded commissions payable included in other
liabilities, were $12 million and $9 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

                                       F-45
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

7.  INCOME TAXES

     The provision for income taxes for continuing operations was as follows:

Reconciliations of the income tax provision at the U.S. statutory rate to
the provision for income taxes as reported for continuing operations were as
follows:

F-46
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Deferred income taxes represent the tax effect of the differences between
the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Net deferred income tax assets
and liabilities consisted of the following:

At December 31, 2005, the Company has a net deferred tax asset. If the
Company determines that any of its deferred tax assets will not result in future
tax benefits, a valuation allowance must be established for the portion of these
assets that are not expected to be realized. Based predominantly upon a review
of the Company's anticipated future taxable income, but also including all other
available evidence, both positive and negative, the Company's management
concluded that it is "more likely than not" that the net deferred tax assets
will be realized.

     Capital loss carryforwards amount to $50 million at December 31, 2005 and
will expire in 2010.

     Subsequent to the Acquisition, the Company will file a consolidated tax
return with its parent, TIC. The companies will execute a Tax Sharing Agreement
(the "Tax Agreement") prior to the filing of the 2005 consolidated tax return.
Under the Tax Agreement, the federal income taxes will be allocated between the
companies on a separate return basis and adjusted for credits and other amounts
required by the Tax Agreement.

     For the periods prior to the Acquisition, the Company files a consolidated
federal income tax return with Citigroup, and were part of a Tax Sharing
Agreement with Citigroup (the "Citigroup Tax Agreement.") Under the Citigroup
Tax Agreement, the federal income taxes are allocated to each member of the
consolidated group on a separate return basis adjusted for credits and other
amounts required by the Citigroup Tax Agreement. TLAC had $265 million payable
to TIC at December 31, 2004 related to the Citigroup Tax Agreement.

     Under the Life Insurance Company Tax Act of 1959, stock life insurance
companies were required to maintain a policyholders' surplus account containing
the accumulated portion of current income which had not been subject to income
tax in the year earned. The Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 required that no
future amounts be added after 1983 to the policyholders' surplus account and
that any future distributions to shareholders from the account would become
subject to income at the general corporate income tax rate then in effect.
During 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA") was enacted. The
AJCA provides, in part, that distributions from policyholders' surplus accounts
during 2005 and 2006 will not be taxed. The amount of policyholders' surplus
account at December 31, 2004 was approximately $2 million. If the entire

                                       F-47
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

policyholders' surplus account were deemed to be distributed in 2004, there
would have been a tax liability of less than $1 million. No current or deferred
taxes have been provided on these amounts in the past because management
considered the conditions under which these taxes would be paid remote. For
federal income tax purposes, an election under Internal Revenue Code Section 338
was made by MetLife upon Acquisition. The Section 338 election results in a
deemed distribution of the Company's policyholders' surplus account in 2005.
However, due to the provision of the AJCA, no tax liability will be incurred as
a result of this deemed distribution of policyholders' surplus in 2005.

8.  CONTINGENCIES, COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES

  CONTINGENCIES

  LITIGATION

     The Company is a defendant in a number of litigation matters. In some of
the matters, indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are
sought. Modern pleading practice in the United States permits considerable
variation in the assertion of monetary damages or other relief. Jurisdictions
may permit claimants not to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit
claimants to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the
jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition, jurisdictions may permit
plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well exceeding reasonably
possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for similar matters. This variability in
pleadings, together with the actual experience of the Company in litigating or
resolving through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of time,
demonstrate to management that the monetary relief which may be specified in a
lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to its merits or disposition value.
Thus, unless stated below, the specific monetary relief sought is not noted.

     Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and
the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally
be inherently impossible to ascertain with any degree of certainty. Inherent
uncertainties can include how fact finders will view individually and in their
totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of witnesses'
testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context
of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial
or on appeal. Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how
opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence
and applicable law.

     The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and regulatory
investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is
difficult to estimate the impact on the Company's consolidated financial
position. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant
information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory
investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the
Company's consolidated financial statements. The review includes senior legal
and financial personnel. Unless stated below, estimates of possible additional
losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be
made with a reasonable degree of certainty. The limitations of available data
and uncertainty regarding numerous variables make it difficult to estimate
liabilities. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. It is
possible that some of the matters could require the Company to pay damages or
make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be
estimated as of December 31, 2005. Furthermore, it is possible that an adverse
outcome in certain of the Company's litigation and regulatory investigations, or
the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded, could
have a material effect upon the Company's consolidated net income or cash flows
in particular quarterly or annual periods.

     In August 1999, an amended putative class action complaint was filed in
Connecticut state court against TLAC, Travelers Equity Sales, Inc. and certain
former affiliates. The amended complaint alleges Travelers

                                       F-48
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Property Casualty Corporation, a former TLAC affiliate, purchased structured
settlement annuities from TLAC and spent less on the purchase of those
structured settlement annuities than agreed with claimants, and that commissions
paid to brokers for the structured settlement annuities, including an affiliate
of TLAC, were paid in part to Travelers Property Casualty Corporation. On May
26, 2004, the Connecticut Superior Court certified a nationwide class action
involving the following claims against TLAC: (i) violation of the Connecticut
Unfair Trade Practice Statute; (ii) unjust enrichment; and (iii) civil
conspiracy. On June 15, 2004, the defendants appealed the class certification
order. The Company has recently learned that the Connecticut Supreme Court has
reversed the trial court's certification of a class. Plaintiff may file a motion
with respect to the order and may seek upon remand to the trial court to file
another motion for class certification. The Company and Travelers Equity Sales,
Inc. intend to continue to vigorously defend the matter.

     Regulatory bodies have contacted the Company and have requested information
relating to market timing and late trading of mutual funds and variable
insurance products and, generally, the marketing of such products. The Company
believes that many of these inquiries are similar to those made to many
financial services companies as part of industry-wide investigations by various
regulatory agencies. In addition, like many insurance companies and agencies in
2004 and 2005, the Company received inquiries from certain state Departments of
Insurance regarding producer compensation and bidding practices. The Company is
fully cooperating with regard to these information requests and investigations.
The Company at the present is not aware of any systemic problems with respect to
such matters that have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position.

     In addition, the Company is a defendant or co-defendant in various other
litigation matters in the normal course of business. These may include civil
actions, arbitration proceedings and other matters arising in the normal course
of business out of activities as an insurance company or otherwise. Further,
state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities
may make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Company's
compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations.

     In the opinion of the Company's management, the ultimate resolution of
these legal and regulatory proceedings would not be likely to have a material
adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition or liquidity,
but, if involving monetary liability, may be material to the Company's operating
results for any particular period.

  INSOLVENCY ASSESSMENTS

     Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact
business require life insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to
participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual
benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or
failed life insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed
limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of
business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer engaged. Some states
permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial
premium tax offsets. Assessments levied against the Company from January 1, 2003
through December 31, 2005 aggregated less than $1 million. The Company
maintained a liability of $1 million at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004,
respectively, and a related asset for premium tax offsets of $1 million at
December 31, 2005, respectively, for future assessments in respect of currently
impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. The related asset for premium tax
offsets was insignificant at December 31, 2004 for future assessments in respect
of currently impaired, insolvent or failed insurers.

     In the past five years, none of the aggregate assessments levied against
the Company have been material. The Company has established liabilities for
guaranty fund assessments that it considers adequate for assessments with
respect to insurers that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings.
                                       F-49
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

COMMITMENTS

  COMMITMENTS TO FUND PARTNERSHIP INVESTMENTS

     The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal
course of business. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were $15 million
and $20 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company
anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships over the next
five years. There are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such
arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material.

  MORTGAGE LOAN COMMITMENTS

     The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loan commitments. The
amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were $20 million and $26 million at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. There are no other obligations or
liabilities arising from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to become
material.

GUARANTEES

     In the normal course of its business, the Company may provide certain
indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties pursuant to which it
may be required to make payments now or in the future. In the context of
acquisition, disposition, investment and other transactions, the Company may
provide indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax, other
specific liabilities, and other indemnities and guarantees that are triggered
by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants
provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of business, the
Company may provide indemnifications to counterparties in contracts with
triggers similar to the foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities,
such as third party lawsuits.

     These obligations are often subject to time limitations that vary in
duration, including contractual limitations and those that arise by operation of
law, such as applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum
potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is subject to
contractual limitation, while in other cases such limitations are not specified
or applicable. Therefore, the Company does not believe that it is possible to
determine the maximum potential amount due under these guarantees.

     In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers as provided
in its charters and by-laws. Also, the Company indemnifies other of its agents
for liabilities incurred as a result of their representation of the Company's
interests. Since these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with
respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible
to determine the maximum potential amount due under these indemnities in the
future.

9.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

  PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS

     Subsequent to the Acquisition, the Company became a participating employer
in qualified and non-qualified, noncontributory defined benefit pension plans
sponsored by MetLife. Employees were credited with prior service recognized by
Citigroup, solely for the purpose of determining eligibility and vesting under
the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United States Employees (the "Plan"),
a noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan, with respect to
benefits earned under the Plan subsequent to the closing date of the
Acquisition. Net periodic expense related to these plans is based on the
employee population as of the valuation date at the beginning of the year;
accordingly, no expense related to the MetLife plans was allocated to the
Company for the six months ended December 31, 2005.

                                       F-50
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Prior to the Acquisition, the Company participated in qualified and
non-qualified, noncontributory defined benefit pension plans and certain other
postretirement plans sponsored by Citigroup. The Company's share of expense for
these plans was insignificant for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The obligation for
benefits earned under these plans was retained by Citigroup.

10.  EQUITY

  DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

     Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, TLAC is permitted, without prior
insurance regulatory clearance, to pay shareholder dividends to its parent as
long as the amount of such dividend, when aggregated with all other dividends in
the preceding twelve months, does not exceed the greater of (i) 10% of its
surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii)
its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar
year. TLAC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend in excess of the greater of
such two amounts only if it files notice of its declaration of such a dividend
and the amount thereof with the Connecticut Commissioner of Insurance
("Commissioner") and the Commissioner does not disapprove the payment within 30
days after notice or until the Commissioner has approved the dividend, whichever
is sooner. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (unassigned
funds, reduced by 25% of unrealized appreciation in value or revaluation of
assets or unrealized profits on investments) as of the last filed annual
statutory statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Connecticut
State Insurance Law, the Commissioner has broad discretion in determining
whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support
the payment of such dividends to its shareholders. The Connecticut State
Insurance Law requires prior approval for any dividends for a period of two
years following a change in control. As a result of the Acquisition, under
Connecticut State Insurance Law all dividend payments by TLAC through June 30,
2007 require prior approval of the Commissioner. TLAC did not pay dividends in
2005 or 2004.

  CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS

     In 2005, the Company had an increase of $4 million in paid-in capital due
to an assumption of all tax liabilities for potential audit liabilities for
federal and state income taxes and other taxes with respect to pre-Acquisition
tax periods. The Acquisition Agreement provides for an indemnification by
Citigroup to MetLife for specified tax liabilities incurred prior to the
Acquisition Date. During 2004, the Company received a capital contribution of
$400 million from its parent, TIC.

  STATUTORY EQUITY AND INCOME

     The Department imposes minimum risk-based capital ("RBC") requirements that
were developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC").
The formulas for determining the amount of RBC specify various weighting factors
that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on
the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of
total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to authorized control level RBC,
as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are
classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective
action. TLAC exceeded the minimum RBC requirements for all periods presented
herein.

     The NAIC adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting Principles
("Codification") in 2001. Codification was intended to standardize regulatory
accounting and reporting to state insurance departments. However, statutory
accounting principles ("SAP") continue to be established by individual state
laws and permitted practices. The Department has adopted Codification, with
certain modifications, for the preparation

                                       F-51
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

of statutory financial statements of insurance companies domiciled in
Connecticut. Modifications by the Department may impact the effect of
Codification on the statutory capital and surplus of TLAC.

     SAP differs from GAAP primarily by: (i) charging policy acquisition costs
to expense as incurred; (ii) establishing future policy benefit liabilities
using different actuarial assumptions; (iii) valuing securities on a different
basis; and (iv) maintaining additional reserves associated with credit default
and interest related investment gains and losses.

     In addition, certain assets are not admitted under SAP and are charged
directly to surplus. The most significant asset not admitted by TLAC is the net
deferred tax asset resulting from temporary differences between SAP basis and
tax basis not expected to reverse and become recoverable within a year.

     Statutory net income (loss) of the TLAC, a Connecticut domiciled insurer,
was ($80) million, ($211) million and $37 million for the years ended December
31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed
with the Department, was $782 million and $942 million at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively.

  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     The following table sets forth the reclassification adjustments required
for the six months ended December 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005, and the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, in other comprehensive income (loss) that are
included as part of net income for the current year that have been reported as a
part of other comprehensive income (loss) in the current or prior period:

F-52
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

11.  OTHER EXPENSES

     Other expenses were comprised of the following:

12.  FAIR VALUE INFORMATION

     The estimated fair values of financial instruments have been determined by
using available market information and the valuation methodologies described
below. Considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to
develop estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein may
not necessarily be indicative of amounts that could be realized in a current
market exchange. The use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may
have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

     Amounts related to the Company's financial instruments were as follows:

F-53
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair values of financial
instruments are summarized as follows:

  FIXED MATURITIES AND EQUITY SECURITIES

     The fair value of fixed maturities and equity securities are based upon
quotations published by applicable stock exchanges or received from other
reliable sources. For securities for which the market values were not readily
available, fair values were estimated using quoted market prices of comparable
investments.

  MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE, MORTGAGE LOAN COMMITMENTS AND COMMITMENTS TO
  FUND PARTNERSHIP INVESTMENTS

     Fair values for mortgage loans on real estate are estimated by discounting
expected future cash flows, using current interest rates for similar loans with
similar credit risk. For mortgage loan commitments, the estimated fair value is
the net premium or discount of the commitments. Commitments to fund partnership
investments have no stated interest rate and are assumed to have a fair value of
zero.

  POLICY LOANS

     The carrying values for policy loans approximate fair value.

  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

     The carrying values for cash and cash equivalents and short-term
investments approximated fair values due to the short-term maturities of these
instruments.

  POLICYHOLDER ACCOUNT BALANCES

     The fair value of policyholder account balances which have final
contractual maturities are estimated by discounting expected future cash flows
based upon interest rates currently being offered for similar contracts with
maturities consistent with those remaining for the agreements being valued. The
fair value of policyholder account balances without final contractual maturities
are assumed to equal their current net surrender value.

                                       F-54
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  PAYABLES FOR COLLATERAL UNDER SECURITIES LOANED AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS

     The carrying values for payables for collateral under securities loaned and
other transactions approximate fair value.

  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The fair value of derivative instruments, including financial futures,
interest rate, credit default and foreign currency swaps, foreign currency
forwards, and options are based upon quotations obtained from dealers or other
reliable sources. See Note 4 for derivative fair value disclosures.

13.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     TIC, TLAC's parent, handles all banking functions including payment of
expenses for TLAC.

     In December 2004, TLAC entered into a reinsurance agreement with TLARC
related to guarantee features included in certain of their universal life and
variable universal life products. This reinsurance agreement is treated as a
deposit-type contract and at December 31, 2005, the Company had a recoverable
from TLARC of $40 million. Fees associated with this contract, included within
other expenses, were $12 million and $22 million for the six months ended
December 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005, respectively.

     In addition, TLAC's individual insurance mortality risk is reinsured, in
part, to Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated ("RGA"), an affiliate,
subsequent to the Acquisition Date. Reinsurance recoverables under these
agreements with RGA were $33 million and $17 million at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. Ceded premiums, universal life fees and benefits were $2
million, $19 million and $36 million, respectively, for the six months ended
December 31, 2005 and $3 million, $7 million and $5 million, respectively, for
the six months ended June 30, 2005.

     At June 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, TLAC had investments in Tribeca
Citigroup Investments Ltd. ("Tribeca"), an affiliate of the Company, in the
amounts of $10 million and $14 million, respectively. Income (loss) of $(1)
million, $1 million and $7 million was recognized on these investments in the
six months ended June 30, 2005 and the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. In July 2005, TLAC sold its investment in Tribeca.

     Prior to the Acquisition, the Company had related party transactions with
its former parent and/or affiliates. These transactions are described as
follows:

     The Company had outstanding loaned securities to a former affiliate,
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., in the amount of $38 million at December 31,
2004.

     Citigroup and certain of its subsidiaries provided investment management
and accounting services, payroll, internal auditing, benefit management and
administration, property management and investment technology services to the
Company. The Company paid TIC an insignificant amount for the six months ended
June 30, 2005 and the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 for these services.

     TIC maintains a short-term investment pool in which the Company
participates. The position of each company participating in the pool is
calculated and adjusted daily. At December 31, 2004, the pool totaled
approximately $4.1 billion of which the Company's share amounted to $384 million
and is included in short-term investments on the balance sheet.

     In the ordinary course of business, the Company distributes fixed and
variable annuity products through its affiliate Smith Barney ("SB"). Premiums
and deposits related to these products were $506 million and $707 million in
2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company also markets term and universal life
products through SB. Premiums related to such products were $108 million and $88
million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Commissions and fees paid to SB were $50
million and $57 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively.

                                       F-55
 
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of The Travelers Insurance Company)

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The Company also distributes deferred annuity products through its
affiliates, Primerica Financial Services, Inc. ("PFS"), CitiStreet Retirement
Services, a division of CitiStreet LLC, (together with its
subsidiaries,"CitiStreet") and Citibank, N.A. ("Citibank").

     Deposits received from PFS were $636 million and $628 million in 2004 and
2003, respectively. Commissions and fees paid to PFS were $48 million and $52
million, in 2004 and 2003, respectively.

     Deposits received from CitiStreet were $116 million and $82 million in 2004
and 2003, respectively. Related commissions and fees paid to CitiStreet were $3
million and $2 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively.

     Deposits received from Citibank were $112 million and $162 million in 2004
and 2003, respectively. Commissions and fees paid to Citibank were $13 million
and $12 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively.

     The leasing functions for the Company were administered by a Citigroup
subsidiary. Rent expense related to leases was shared by the companies on a cost
allocation method based generally on estimated usage by department. The
Company's rent expense was insignificant in 2004 and 2003.

14.  SUBSEQUENT EVENT

     On February 14, 2006, TLAC filed, with the State of Connecticut Office of
the Secretary of the State, a Certificate of Amendment to the Charter as Amended
and Restated of The Travelers Life and Annuity Company (the "Charter
Amendment"). The Charter Amendment changes the name of TLAC to "MetLife Life and
Annuity Company of Connecticut" and is effective on May 1, 2006.

                                       F-56

THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE TRAVELERS INSURANCE COMPANY)

                                   SCHEDULE I

                     CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS --
                      OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES
                               DECEMBER 31, 2005
                                 (IN MILLIONS)

- ---------------

(1) Cost for fixed maturities and mortgage loans on real estate represent
    original cost reduced by repayments, net valuation allowances and
    write-downs from other-than-temporary declines in value and adjusted for
    amortization of premiums or accretion of discount; for equity securities,
    cost represents original cost reduced by write-downs from
    other-than-temporary declines in value; and limited partnership interests
    represents original cost reduced for other-than-temporary impairments or
    original cost adjusted for equity in earnings and distributions.

                                       F-57

THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE TRAVELERS INSURANCE COMPANY)

                                  SCHEDULE III

                CONSOLIDATED SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
                    AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR) AND
                        DECEMBER 31, 2004 (PREDECESSOR)
                                 (IN MILLIONS)

- ---------------

(1) Amounts are included in the other policyholder funds column for successor
    and included in other liabilities for predecessor.

                                       F-58

THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE TRAVELERS INSURANCE COMPANY)

                          SCHEDULE III -- (CONTINUED)

           FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 (SUCCESSOR) AND
                        JUNE 30, 2005 (PREDECESSOR) AND
          FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 AND 2003 (PREDECESSOR)
                                 (IN MILLIONS)

F-59

THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY
         (A WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE TRAVELERS INSURANCE COMPANY)

                                  SCHEDULE IV

                            CONSOLIDATED REINSURANCE
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2005 AND 2004 AND FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005
        AND JUNE 30, 2005 AND THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 AND 2003
                                 (IN MILLIONS)

F-60

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

  DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     TLAC's management, with the participation of TLAC's Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and
operation of TLAC's disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules
13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
("Exchange Act") as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have
concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

  INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

     On July 1, 2005, MetLife completed the Acquisition of the Company. MetLife
is in the process of completing its post-merger integration plan which includes
migrating policyholder data for certain insurance products onto MetLife
applications. Management believes that these data migrations were adequately
controlled and tested and that a common platform across the enterprise
strengthens the controls over the financial reporting process. Such conversions
have resulted in changes that have materially affected or are reasonably likely
to materially affect the Company's internal control over financial reporting for
the quarter ended December 31, 2005. Except as set forth above, there were no
changes to the Company's internal control over financial reporting as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) during the quarter ended December 31, 2005 that
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company's internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION

     On February 14, 2006, TLAC filed with the State of Connecticut Office of
the Secretary of the State the Charter Amendment. The Charter Amendment changes
the name of TLAC to "MetLife Life and Annuity Company of Connecticut" and is
effective on May 1, 2006.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Omitted pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(c) of Form 10-K.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Omitted pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(c) of Form 10-K.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Omitted pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(c) of Form 10-K.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Omitted pursuant to General Instruction I(2)(c) of Form 10-K.

                                        41

ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

     As a result of the acquisition on July 1, 2005 (the "Acquisition Date") of
the Company by MetLife, Inc. ("MetLife"), on September 29, 2005, the Company
dismissed KPMG LLP ("KPMG") as its independent auditors and engaged Deloitte &
Touche LLP ("Deloitte") to serve as the Company's independent auditors. The
following represents (i) the fees billed by KPMG to the Company for 2004 and for
2005 through the date of its dismissal; and (ii) the fees billed by Deloitte to
the Company for 2005:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     (1) Fees for services to perform an audit or review in accordance with
         auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
         ("PCAOB") and services that generally only the Company's independent
         auditor can reasonably provide, such as comfort letters, statutory
         audits, attest services, consents and assistance with and review of
         documents filed with the SEC.

     (2) Fees for assurance and related services that are traditionally
         performed by the Company's independent auditor, such as audit and
         related services for due diligence related to mergers and acquisitions,
         accounting consultations and audits in connection with proposed or
         consummated acquisitions, internal control reviews, attest services not
         required by statute or regulation, and consultation concerning
         financial accounting and reporting standards.

     (3) Fees for tax compliance, consultation and planning services. Tax
         compliance generally involves preparation of original and amended tax
         returns, claims for refunds and tax payment planning services. Tax
         consultation and tax planning encompass a diverse range of services,
         including assistance in connection with tax audits and filing appeals,
         tax advice related to mergers and acquisitions, advice related to
         employee benefit plans and requests for rulings or technical advice
         from taxing authorities.

     (4) De minimis fees for other types of permitted services.

APPROVAL OF FEES PRIOR TO THE ACQUISITION

     Prior to the Acquisition Date, all fees charged by KPMG were reviewed and
approved by Citigroup Inc.'s audit and risk management committee. Such committee
concluded that the provision of services by KPMG was consistent with the
maintenance of the external auditors' independence in the conduct of its
auditing functions.

APPROVAL OF FEES FOLLOWING THE ACQUISITION

     The Audit Committee of MetLife (the "Audit Committee") approves the
provision of audit and non-audit services to MetLife and its subsidiaries,
including the Company, in advance as required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and SEC rules. Under procedures adopted by the Audit Committee, the Audit
Committee reviews, on an annual basis, a schedule of particular audit services
that MetLife expects to be performed in the next fiscal year for MetLife and its
subsidiaries, including the Company, and an estimated amount of fees for each
particular audit service. The Audit Committee also reviews a schedule of audit-
related, tax and other permitted non-audit services that the independent auditor
may be engaged to perform during the next fiscal year and an estimated amount of
fees for each of those services, as well as information on pre-approved services
provided by the independent auditor in the current year.

     Based on this information, the Audit Committee pre-approves the audit
services that MetLife expects to be performed by the independent auditor in
connection with the audit of MetLife's and its subsidiaries'

                                        42

financial statements for the next fiscal year, the audit-related, tax and other
permitted non-audit services that management may desire to engage the
independent auditor to perform during the next fiscal year. In addition, the
Audit Committee approves the terms of the engagement letter to be entered into
with the independent auditor with respect to such services.

     If, during the course of the year, the audit, audit-related, tax and other
permitted non-audit fees exceed the previous estimates provided to the Audit
Committee, the Audit Committee determines whether or not to approve the
additional fees. The Audit Committee or a designated member of the Audit
Committee to whom authority has been delegated may, from time to time,
pre-approve additional audit and non-audit services to be performed by the
independent auditor.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

     The following documents are filed as part of this report:

          1. Financial Statements

             The financial statements are listed in the Index to Consolidated
        Financial Statements and Schedules on page 40.

          2. Financial Statement Schedules

             The financial statement schedules are listed in the Index to
        Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules on page 40.

          3. Exhibits

             The exhibits are listed in the Exhibit Index which begins on page
        E-1.

                                        43

SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

March 31, 2006                            THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY
                                          COMPANY

                                          By: /s/ C. Robert Henrikson
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Name: C. Robert Henrikson
                                            Title: Chairman of the Board,
                                                   President
                                                   and Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

SIGNATURE                                      TITLE                       DATE
                    ---------                                      -----                       ----

/s/ C. Robert Henrikson                  Chairman of the Board, President    March 31, 2006
 ------------------------------------------------       and Chief Executive Officer
               C. Robert Henrikson                     (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Leland C. Launer, Jr.                             Director                March 31, 2006
 ------------------------------------------------
              Leland C. Launer, Jr.

/s/ Lisa M. Weber                                 Director                March 31, 2006
 ------------------------------------------------
                  Lisa M. Weber

/s/ Stanley J. Talbi                      Senior Vice-President and        March 31, 2006
 ------------------------------------------------         Chief Financial Officer
                 Stanley J. Talbi                      (Principal Financial Officer)

/s/ Joseph J. Prochaska, Jr.                  Senior Vice-President and        March 31, 2006
 ------------------------------------------------         Chief Accounting Officer
             Joseph J. Prochaska, Jr.                  (Principal Accounting Officer)

Supplemental Information to be Furnished With Reports Filed Pursuant to
Section 15(d) of the Act by Registrants Which Have Not Registered Securities
pursuant to Section 12 of the Act: NONE

     No annual report to security holders covering the registrant's last fiscal
year or proxy material with respect to any meeting of security holders has been
sent, or will be sent, to security holders.

                                        44

EXHIBIT INDEX

E-1

<EX-3.1>
 2
 y18208exv3w1.txt
 EX-3.1 CHARTER

EXHIBIT 3.1

                               COPY OF THE CHARTER

                                       OF

                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY

                              Hartford, Connecticut

                                  AS EFFECTIVE

                                 April 10, 1990

                                     CHARTER
                                       OF
                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY

Section 1. J. Doyle De Witt, Sterling T. Tooker and Millard Bartels with such
other persons as may be associated with them, their successors and assigns, are
created a body politic and corporate by the name of the The Travelers Life and
Annuity Company and under that name shall have all the powers granted by the
general statutes, as now enacted or hereafter amended, to corporations formed
under the Stock Corporation Act.

Section 2. The corporation shall have to the power to write life insurance,
endowments and annuities, and to issue policies and contracts therfor with
benefits payable and fixed or variable amounts, or both; to accept and to cede
reinsurance of any such risks or hazards; and to issue policies and contracts
either with or without participation in profits. The corporation is authorized
to exercise the powers herein granted in any state, territory or jurisdiction of
the United States or in any foreign country.

Section 3. The authorized capital of the corporation shall be ten million
dollars divided into one hundred thousand shares of common capital stock with a
par value of one hundred dollars each.

Section 4. The business, property and affairs of the corporation shall be
managed by the chief executive officer and his delegated officers under the
direction of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall be charged
with the following responsibilities and duties: selection, surveillance and
removal of the chief executive officer and, subject to the provisions of any
applicable by-laws, other corporate officers; provision of periodic statements
to the shareholders concerning the operation and financial status of the
corporation; amendment of the charted and by laws; authorization or approval of
major acquisitions and dispositions of assets; authorization or approval of
mergers, consolidations and reorganizations; the taking of action with respect
to the issuance, acquisition, retirement or cancellation, redemption or
determination of terms, limitations and relative rights and preferences of the
corporation's capital stock or any class thereof; the incurrence of major
corporate indebtedness; declaration of dividends with respect to outstanding
shares of the corporation's capital stock; action with respect to the
dissolution of the corporation; and such other responsibilities and duties as
may be required by law. The number of directorships shall be fixed in the
by-laws. The number of directorships so fixed shall be filled by an election of
directors at each annual meeting of the shareholders to serve until the next
annual meeting or until their respective successors shall be elected and shall
qualify, except as provided in the Connecticut Stock Corporation Act.

Section 5. The incorporators named in Section 1 of this act shall form the
corporation in the manner provided for specially chartered corporations in the
Stock Corporation Act.

Section 6. The personal liability to the corporation or its shareholders of a
person who is or was a director of the corporation for monetary damages for
breach of duty as a director shall be limited to the amount of the compensation
received by the director for serving the corporation during the year of the
violation if such breach did not (a) involve a knowing and capable violation of
law by the director, (b) enable the director or an associate, as defined in
subdivision (3) of Section 33-374d of the Connecticut Stock Corporation Act as
in effect on the effective date hereof or as it may be amended from time to
time, to receive an improper personal economic gain, (c) show a lack of good
faith and a conscious disregard for the duty of the director to the corporation
under circumstances in which the director was aware that his conduct or omission
created an unjustifiable risk of serious injury to the corporation, (d)
constitute a sustained and unexcused pattern of inattention that amounted to an
abdication of the director's duty to the corporation, or (e) create liability
under Section 33-321 of the Connecticut Stock Corporation Act as in effect on
the effective date hereof or as it may be amended from time to time. This
Section 6 shall not limit or preclude the liability of a person who is or was a
director for any act or omission occurring prior to the effective date hereof on
the date of filing of a Certificate of Amendment amending the Charter of the
corporation with the Secretary of the State of Connecticut. The personal
liability of a person who is or was a director to the corporation or its
shareholders for breach of duty as a director shall further be limited to the
full extent allowed by the Connecticut Stock Corporation Act as it may be
amended from time to time. Any lawful repeal or modification of this Section 6
or the adoption of any provision inconsistent herewith by the Board of Directors
and the shareholders of the corporation shall not, with respect to a person who
is or was a director, adversely affect any limitation of liability, right or
protection existing at or prior to the effective date of such repeal,
modification or adoption of a provision inconsistent herewith.

</EX-3.1>

<EX-3.2>
 3
 y18208exv3w2.txt
 EX-3.2 CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT OF THE CHARTER

Exhibit 3.2

CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT

                    OF THE CHARTER AS AMENDED AND RESTATED OF

                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY

              BY ACTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS

         We, the undersigned, C. Robert Henrikson and Gwenn L. Carr, being
respectively the President and Secretary of The Travelers Life and Annuity
Company, DO HEREBY CERTIFY that:

         1.       The name of the corporation is The Travelers Life and Annuity
Company (the "Company").

         2. The Charter of The Travelers Life and Annuity Company, as heretofore
amended and restated (the "Charter"), is hereby further amended as follows:

                  Section 1 of the Charter is hereby amended and restated in its
entirety to read as follows:

                           Section 1. The name of the corporation shall be
                           MetLife Life and Annuity Company of Connecticut.

         3.       The foregoing amendment of the Charter was approved and
adopted by the Board of Directors on October 26, 2005 and by the sole
shareholder of said corporation on November 23, 2005 in the manner required by
Conn. Gen. Stat. ss.ss.33-600 to 33-998, inclusive, and by the certificate of
incorporation.

         4.       Vote of the shareholders:

5.       The effective date of the foregoing amendment shall be May 1,
2006.

         We hereby declare that the statements made in the foregoing certificate
are true.

         Signed at Long Island City, New York this 10 day of February, 2006.

                                /s/ C. Robert Henrikson
                                -----------------------
                                C. Robert Henrikson
                                President

                                /s/ Gwenn L. Carr
                                -----------------
                                Gwenn L. Carr
                                Secretary

</EX-3.2>

<EX-3.3>
 4
 y18208exv3w3.txt
 EX-3.3 BY-LAWS

EXHIBIT 3.3

                                     BY-LAWS

                                       OF

                     THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY COMPANY

                                OCTOBER 20, 1994

ARTICLE I.
                    SHAREHOLDERS AND SHAREHOLDERS' MEETINGS.

         SECTION 1. The annual meeting of the shareholders of The Travelers Life
and Annuity Company shall be held at such time and place as the directors may
appoint.

         SECTION 2. Special meetings of the shareholders may be held at such
time and place as may be designated in the notice thereof and may be called at
any time by the Chairman of the Board or the President or by a majority of the
directors.

         SECTION 3. At each meeting of the shareholders the Chairman of the
Board, or in his absence the President, or, in the absence of both, such other
person as may be appointed by the Board of Directors, shall act as chairman of
the meeting and the Corporate Secretary shall act as clerk of the meeting, and
in his absence, an Assistant Corporate Secretary, or in the absence of the
Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary, such company officer as
the Chairman may appoint shall act as clerk of the meeting.

         SECTION 4(a). There shall be a minimum of three and a maximum of twelve
directorships and the number of directorships at any time within such minimum
and maximum shall be the number fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
At each annual meeting of the company directors shall be elected, each to hold
office until the next succeeding annual meeting of shareholders following such
election or until a successor has been elected and qualified, except as provided
hereafter. Whenever any vacancy shall occur in the Board of Directors by death,
resignation or otherwise, such vacancy may be filled by a majority of the
directors then in office whether or not they constitute a quorum.

         (b). The Board of Directors may increase the number of directorships,
within a minimum of three and a maximum of twelve, and fill any vacancy created
by reason of such increase in the number of directorships, by the concurring
vote of directors holding a majority of the directorships, which number of
directorships shall be the number prior to the vote on the increase. Directors
elected to fill such vacancies shall serve until the next annual meeting of
shareholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified.

(c). Any adult person in good standing in his/her community is eligible
to be a director of the Company provided that he/she shall not be elected for a
term commencing after he/she shall have attained age seventy. An officer of the
Company, other than a director who has been chief executive officer of the
Company, who is a member of the Board of Directors upon retirement or
resignation as an officer of the Company, shall thereafter be ineligible for
reelection to the board.

         SECTION 5. A majority of the shares of voting capital stock outstanding
of all classes shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such
meetings.

ARTICLE II.
                                   DIRECTORS.

         SECTION 1. The regular meetings of the directors shall be held at such
place and at such time as the directors may by vote designate. The directors may
authorize the Chairman of the Board or the President to change the time of any
regular meeting.

         SECTION 2. Special meetings of the directors may be called at any time
by the Chairman of the Board or the President or by any three directors.

         SECTION 3. Written notice by mail shall be given by the Corporate
Secretary of each regular and special meeting of the board and each committee
thereof to all directors or members of the committee, as the case may be, at
least two days before the time appointed therefor or notice to such directors or
committee members may be personally delivered or given by telegraph or telephone
not later than the day before the meeting.

         SECTION 4. Not less than one-third of the board shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the board, and at every
meeting the presiding officer shall have the right to vote, but at any special
meeting called by three directors not less than seven directors shall constitute
a quorum.

         SECTION 5. The Board of Directors annually at the first meeting of the
board held after the annual election of directors or at some adjourned meeting
thereof by a majority vote of the directors present shall elect from their own
number a Chairman of the Board and may elect from their own number a President
and one or more Vice Chairmen, each to hold office for one year and until his
successor is chosen, and may at any time fill any vacancy which may occur in
said offices for the unexpired term. In the absence of the Chairman of the
Board, the President, if he is a member of the Board of Directors, shall preside
when present at all meetings of the board; in the absence of the Chairman of the
Board and the President, the Board of Directors may choose from among their own
number a Chairman or a President pro tem to preside at its meetings. Any two or
more offices may be held by the same person, except the offices of President and
Corporate Secretary.

SECTION 6. By the same vote but at any time and from time to time the
Board of Directors shall appoint a President (if not elected from there own
number) and may appoint one or more Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice
Presidents, a General Counsel, a Corporate Secretary, a Treasurer, an Auditor
and such other officers under appropriate titles as the board may deem necessary
for the proper conduct of the Company's business, to hold office during the
pleasure of the chief executive officer.

ARTICLE III.
                                   COMMITTEES.

         SECTION 1. The Board of Directors by resolution adopted by the
affirmative vote of the directors holding a majority of the directorships shall
annually appoint an Investment Committee and an Audit Committee, the members of
which may be selected from the members of the Board of Directors or otherwise,
and may from time to time appoint and prescribe the duties and authority of
other committees. Appointments to any committee may be revoked and annulled and
new appointments made by the board at any time in its discretion. The Board of
Directors may appoint from among its members two directors as alternates to each
such committee to serve in the order of their appointment and the chairman of
any committee may appoint a director as an alternate to serve as a member of
such committee in the absence or disqualification of any committee member and
any alternate appointed by the Board of Directors.

         SECTION 2. The Investment Committee shall consist of not less than
three members. It shall be the duty of the Investment Committee to authorize or
approve each loan or investment transaction made by the Company and to review
the investment policy and program of the Company.

         SECTION 3. Not less than two members of the Investment Committee shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the
Committee, and at every meeting the presiding officer shall have the right to
vote.

         SECTION 4. The Investment Committee may appoint from among the officers
of the Company or an affiliated company a Management Investment Committee and
assign to the Management Investment Committee, subject to such limitations as
the Investment Committee may from time to time establish, the review and
authorization of loans and investments of the Company.

ARTICLE IV.
                                    OFFICERS.

         SECTION 1. The Chairman of the Board shall be the chief executive
officer, charged with the management of the business, property and affairs of
the Company under the direction of the

Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may appoint as the chief executive
officer the President or some other officer, provided that no such appointment
shall become effective unless notice thereof is included in a notice of the
meeting at which the change is made, or such appointment was considered at a
meeting of the board at which a majority of the directors were present held at
least twenty-four hours prior to the appointment. At his discretion, the chief
executive officer may act as Chairman of any Committee of which he is a member.
When present, the Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the
board. He shall be a member ex officio of all committees, except the Audit
Committee. The chief executive officer may at any time and from time to time
appoint such other officers, not specified in or appointed by the Board of
Directors pursuant to Section 6 of Article II, under appropriate titles as he
may deem necessary for the proper conduct of the Company's business to hold
office during his pleasure. The chief executive officer may at his discretion
delegate such power of appointment to any of the officers designated in Sections
5 and 6 of Article II.

         SECTION 2. In the absence of the chief executive officer or his
inability to act, the Board of Directors may designate the Chairman of the Board
or the President or such other officer of the Company as it may select to
perform the duties imposed upon the chief executive officer by these by-laws.

         SECTION 3. Each officer appointed by the Board of Directors shall be
subject to the direction of and shall have such authority and perform such
duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Board of Directors,
the chief executive officer and his delegated officers. Each officer appointed
pursuant to Section 1 of this Article IV shall be subject to the direction of
and shall have such authority and perform such duties as may be assigned to him
from time to time by the chief executive officer and his delegated officers.

         SECTION 4. The compensation of all officers, agents and employees of
the Company may be fixed either by the Board of Directors, by a committee
appointed by the board for that purpose or by the chief executive officer or
other officer within the limits of authority conferred upon him by the board or
by such committee.

ARTICLE V.
                                 CORPORATE SEAL.

         The corporate seal shall hereafter, as heretofore, consist of the
corporate name in a circle enclosing the word "seal." The Corporate Secretary
shall be the keeper of the corporate seal with authority in him and in each
Department Secretary or Assistant Corporate Secretary or Assistant Department
Secretary to affix the same and attest it by his signature to all sealed
instruments.

ARTICLE VI.
                                   AMENDMENTS.

         These by-laws may be altered, repealed or amended and additional
by-laws enacted at any annual or special meeting of the shareholders provided
notice be given of the action proposed in the notice of such meeting, or by vote
of a majority of the entire Board of Directors at a meeting of said board called
for the purpose upon notice to each director of the action proposed to be taken
in regard to said by-laws, provided, however, that Article I, Section 4(b),
Article II, Section 4, and Article III, Section 3 of the by-laws shall not be
amended except at a meeting of the shareholders.

STATE OF CONNECTICUT, }
                      } SS:                 HARTFORD, CONN._____________________
COUNTY OF HARTFORD.   }

THE FOREGOING IS A TRUE COPY OF THE BY-LAWS OF THE TRAVELERS LIFE AND ANNUITY
COMPANY.

ATTEST:

----------------------------
                                                SECRETARY.

</EX-3.3>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 y18208exv31w1.txt
 EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.1

                                 CERTIFICATIONS

         I, C. Robert Henrikson, Chief Executive Officer of The Travelers Life
and Annuity Company, certify that:

         1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Travelers
Life and Annuity Company;

         2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

         3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

         4. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible
for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

         a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
            disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
            supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
            registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known
            to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
            period in which this report is being prepared;

         b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
            and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
            the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of
            the end of the period covered by this report based on such
            evaluation; and

         c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
            control over financial reporting that occurred during the
            registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
            fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
            affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
            registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

         5. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):

         a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
            or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
            reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
            record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

         b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
            other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
            internal control over financial reporting.

Date:    March 31, 2006
                                         /s/ C. Robert Henrikson
                                         -------------------------------------
                                         C. Robert Henrikson
                                         Chairman of the Board, President and
                                         Chief Executive Officer

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 y18208exv31w2.txt
 EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.2

CERTIFICATIONS

         I, Stanley J. Talbi, Chief Financial Officer of The Travelers Life and
Annuity Company, certify that:

         1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Travelers
Life and Annuity Company;

         2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

         3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as
of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

         4. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible
for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

         a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
            disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
            supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
            registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known
            to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
            period in which this report is being prepared;

         b) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
            and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
            the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of
            the end of the period covered by this report based on such
            evaluation; and

         c) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
            control over financial reporting that occurred during the
            registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth
            fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
            affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
            registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

         5. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):

         a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design
            or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
            reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
            record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

         b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
            other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's
            internal control over financial reporting.

Date:    March 31, 2006

                                      /s/ Stanley J. Talbi
                                      -----------------------------------------
                                      Stanley J. Talbi
                                      Senior Vice President and Chief
                                      Financial Officer

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 y18208exv32w1.txt
 EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.1

SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED
                                  STATES CODE

         I, C. Robert Henrikson, the Chief Executive Officer of The Travelers
Life and Annuity Company (the "Company"), certify that (i) the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 (the "Form 10-K") fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.

Date:    March 31, 2006

/s/ C. Robert Henrikson
                                ------------------------------------------------
                                C. Robert Henrikson
                                Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
                                Executive Officer

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 y18208exv32w2.txt
 EX-32.2: CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 32.2

                            SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED
                                  STATES CODE

         I, Stanley J. Talbi, the Chief Financial Officer of The Travelers Life
and Annuity Company (the "Company"), certify that (i) the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 (the "Form 10-K") fully
complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.

Date:    March 31, 2006

                               /s/ Stanley J. Talbi
                               -------------------------------------------------
                               Stanley J. Talbi
                               Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

</EX-32.2>

