<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_911583_0001104659-06-021095_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3350748</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>216918</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2302896</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>72</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-06-021095.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331124251
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-06-021095
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			STEINWAY MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000911583
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS [3931]
		IRS NUMBER:				351910745
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11911
		FILM NUMBER:		06726857

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 SOUTH STREET
		STREET 2:		SUITE 305
		CITY:			WALTHAM
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02453-1472
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7818949770

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 SOUTH STREET
		STREET 2:		SUITE 305
		CITY:			WALTHAM
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02453-1472

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SELMER INDUSTRIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940209

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 KCZT6lqm7gKJtTod63VS2RwM3Dj7JBm/BzeEEzL5idNDsPBB1z8z6orrjPuT1HsX
 08eK4Ki6PfmG6SJULmi1OA==

 0001104659-06-021095.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 a06-2179_110k.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington, D.C. 
20549   

FORM 10-K   

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 001-11911   

STEINWAY MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, INC.   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)  

DELAWARE   

35-1910745   

(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or
  Organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)  

800 South Street, Suite 305,   

Waltham, Massachusetts   

02453   

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)  

(Zip Code)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code  

(781) 894-9770   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
  the Act:  

Title of each class   

Name of each exchange on which registered   

Ordinary Common Shares,
  $.001 par value  

New York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    None    

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   Yes    o   No      

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or 15(d) of the Act.   Yes    o   No      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements during the past 90 days.   Yes        No   o  

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.       

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.  

Large accelerated filer   o  

Accelerated filer      

Non-accelerated filer   o  

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).  

  Yes     o   No      

The
aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was $236,697,002 as of June 30, 2005.  

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   

Part III - Items
10-14 - Definitive Proxy Statement of the Registrant to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A, Parts I-IV - Final Prospectus of the Registrant dated August 1,
1996 filed pursuant to Rule 424(b).  

Note
Regarding Forward-Looking Statements   

Certain statements contained throughout this Annual
Report on Form 10-K are  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  These forward-looking statements represent
our present expectations or beliefs concerning future events.  We caution readers that such statements are
necessarily based on certain assumptions that are subject to risks and
uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those
indicated in this report.  These risk
factors include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A of
this report.  We encourage investors to
read Item 1A carefully.  Undue reliance
should not be placed on the forward-looking statements contained in this
report.  These statements, like all
statements contained in this report, speak only as of the date of this report
(unless another date is indicated) and we undertake no obligation to update or
revise the statements except as required by law.  

Note Regarding
Incorporation By Reference   

The Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) allows
us to disclose certain information by referring the reader to other documents
we have filed with the SEC.  The
information to which we refer is  incorporated by reference  into this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.  Please read
that information.  

PART I   

Item 1.  Business   

Company History   

Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc., through its
wholly owned subsidiaries, is a global leader in the design, manufacture,
marketing and distribution of high quality musical instruments.  We are the largest domestic manufacturer of
musical instruments.  Whenever we refer
to the  Company  or to  us,  or use the terms  we  or  our  in this annual
report, we are referring to Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and its
subsidiaries.  

Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc., formerly
Selmer Industries, Inc., was incorporated in 1993, at which time it
purchased The Selmer Company, Inc. ( Selmer ), the largest U.S.
manufacturer of band   orchestral instruments.  In May of 1995, we purchased Steinway
Musical Properties, Inc. ( Steinway ), a manufacturer and distributor of
acoustic pianos.  In August of 1996,
Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. became publicly held.  

In September of 2000, we acquired United Musical
Instruments Holdings, Inc. ( UMI ), the second largest manufacturer of
band   orchestral instruments in the United States and on January 1,
2003 Selmer and UMI merged into Conn-Selmer, Inc.  
( Conn-Selmer ).  In August of 2004,
we acquired the assets of G. Leblanc Corporation, a manufacturer of high
quality band instruments with production facilities in Wisconsin and France.  

We are a Delaware corporation with our principal executive
offices located at 800 South Street, Suite 305, Waltham, Massachusetts
02453, and our telephone number is (781) 894-9770.  Through our corporate website,
www.steinwaymusical.com, we provide access free of charge to all of our filings
with the SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.  These reports are available immediately
following filing with the SEC. 
Information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated
by reference into this Annual  

2  

Report on Form 10-K
and should not be considered part of this report or any other filing that we
make with the SEC.  Additionally, the SEC
maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and
information statements and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC.  

Financial Information by Segment and Geographic Location   

Information on business segments and geographic areas
in which we operated for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
is contained in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in
this report.  

Musical
Instrument Industry   

We operate two reportable segments within the musical
instrument industry: pianos and band   orchestral instruments.  

Pianos -    The overall piano market is comprised of two main
categories: grand pianos and upright pianos. Steinway   Sons pianos
compete in the high-end segment of the market, whereas our Boston and Essex
lines compete in the mid-priced segment of the piano market.  

During the last few years, increases in piano imports,
mainly from China and Indonesia, contributed to an increase in grand piano unit
sales in the United States, the world s largest grand piano market.  While these lower-priced imports have made it
possible for more consumers to afford a piano, we believe industry revenues are
on the decline as a result of lower average prices.  Since Steinway realizes the majority of its
profit from high-end grand piano sales, our results are generally more affected
by economic cycles, demographics, and the public s continued interest in music
than by industry trends.  The piano
market in China is growing at a rapid pace and is now the second largest grand
piano market outside the United States. 
We continue to target this region in our distribution strategies.    

Band   Orchestral Instruments -    Demand   for
band   orchestral instruments in the domestic market has traditionally
been more significantly impacted by factors such as demographic trends and
school budgeting rather than by macroeconomic cycles.  Recent studies have emphasized the importance
of music education in a child s development and many school band directors are
promoting band programs as social organizations rather than the first step of
intensive music study.  We expect this
emphasis on music education and steady demographic trends to contribute to a
relatively stable domestic market in the near-term.  

In recent years, there has been an increase in units
imported into the domestic market from offshore low-cost producers. This has
created a highly price sensitive domestic market where manufacturers have
implemented aggressive pricing programs in an attempt to maintain market share
positions.  To remain competitive in this
market, we now import some student woodwind and brass instruments, primarily
entry-level, made to our specifications. 
The impact of lower priced imported instruments has also led to consolidation
within the industry, leaving Conn-Selmer, Yamaha and Jupiter as the top three
remaining competitors.  

3  

Business and Products   

Piano Segment   

Our piano division concentrates on the high-end grand
piano market, handcrafting Steinway pianos in New York and Germany.  The Steinway   Sons grand piano is
considered to be the highest quality piano in the world and has one of the most
widely recognized and prestigious brand names. 
We also offer upright pianos as well as two mid-priced lines of pianos
under the Boston and Essex brand names.  

Steinway   Sons   - Steinway pianos differ from all
others in design specifications, materials used and the assembly process.  We offer
two premium-priced product lines under the Steinway   Sons brand:
grand pianos and upright pianos.  Grand
pianos historically have accounted for the majority of our production.  We offer seven sizes of the grand piano
ranging from the 5 1  baby grand to the largest 9  concert grand.  The smaller grands are sold to both
individual and institutional customers, while the concert grands are sold
primarily to institutions.  Steinway
grand pianos are premium pianos in terms of quality and price, with retail
prices for ebony pianos generally ranging from $40,600 to $103,400 in the
United States.  Limited edition pianos
and pianos with exotic veneers sell for retail prices of up to $158,200.  In 2005, we sold 3,145 grand pianos, of which 2,114 units were shipped
from our New York facility to dealers in the Americas.  The remaining 1,031 units were shipped from
our German facility primarily to Europe and Asia.  Our upright pianos offer dealers a complete
line of quality pianos to satisfy the needs of institutions and other customers
who are constrained by space limitations. 
We also provide services such as repair, replacement part sales, tuning
and regulation of pianos, and restoration. Restoration services range from
repairs of minor damage to complete restorations of vintage pianos. 

Boston Piano Company   - We
introduced the Boston line in the early 1990s to allow us to compete in the
mid-price category.  Today we offer two
complete lines of grand and upright pianos for the mid-priced piano market
under the Boston and Essex brand names. 
With certain limited exceptions, we allow only Steinway dealers to carry
the Boston and Essex piano lines, thereby ensuring that these pianos will be
marketed as complementary product lines to the Steinway line.  These pianos, which were designed by us and
are produced for us in Asia, provide our dealers with an opportunity to realize
better margins in this price range while capturing sales that would have
otherwise gone to a competitor.  Also,
since our research indicates that the vast majority of Steinway customers have
previously owned another piano, Boston and Essex pianos provide future Steinway
piano customers with the opportunity to join the Steinway family of owners
sooner.  The Boston and Essex product
lines also increase our business with our dealers, making us their primary
supplier in many instances.  Together,
the Boston and Essex product lines offer 13 upright and grand piano sizes, with
retail prices ranging from $3,995 to $39,990 in the United States. 

Band Segment   

We are the largest domestic producer of band  
orchestral instruments and offer a complete line of brass, woodwind, percussion
and string instruments with well-known brand names.  We have complemented our domestic
manufacturing strategy with a sourcing strategy from Asia to remain competitive
in the global marketplace.  Over the past
few years, we have established relationships with several overseas
manufacturers to produce imported entry-level student instruments to our design
specifications.  As part of this global
manufacturing strategy, we also began rationalizing our facilities to reduce
manufacturing overhead.  We have closed
two of our U.S. manufacturing plants, reducing our domestic manufacturing floor
space by 20%.  

In 2005, sales of sourced products accounted for 35%
of our band division revenue.  

4  

Approximately
25% of these sales were from our imported entry-level student woodwind and
brass instruments.  

Woodwind and Brass Instruments   -
We manufacture piccolos, flutes, clarinets, oboes, bassoons, saxophones,
trumpets, French horns, tubas, and trombones in our manufacturing facilities in
Indiana, Ohio, Wisconsin, and France.  We sell student level instruments in three
distinct product groupings:  good  entry-level imported instruments,  better 
mid-priced instruments, which are either imported or manufactured by us, and  best 
instruments, which are primarily manufactured by us.  In addition, we also manufacture intermediate
and professional level woodwind and brass instruments.  Sales of woodwind and brass instruments
accounted for 70% of our band division revenue in 2005. 

We sell our woodwind and brass products under the
brand names   Bach, Selmer, C.G. Conn, Leblanc, King, Armstrong,
Holton, Martin, Yanagisawa,Vito, Emerson, Noblet, Artley   and   Benge  .  Suggested retail prices generally range from
$300 to $2,500 for student instruments and from $1,000 to $10,000 for
intermediate and professional instruments. 
We often customize the products that we sell to professional musicians
so that the product meets requested design specifications or has certain sound
characteristics.  We believe that
specialization of products helps maintain a competitive edge in quality and
product design.  Our specialized woodwind
and brass instruments sell for up to $27,000.  

We are the exclusive U.S. distributor for   Yanagisawa   saxophones and   Selmer Paris   musical instruments. The   Selmer Paris  
saxophone is the best selling professional saxophone in the world.    Selmer Paris  , in turn, has exclusive distribution
rights to some of our brass instruments in France.    

Percussion Instruments   - We
manufacture, source, and distribute acoustical and tuned percussion
instruments, including outfit drums, marching drums, concert drums, marimbas,
xylophones, vibraphones, orchestra bells, and chimes.  We manufacture percussion products in North
Carolina and Illinois under the   Ludwig   and   Musser   brand names.    Ludwig   is considered a leading brand name in acoustical
drums and timpani and   Musser   has a
strong market position in tuned percussion products.  Suggested retail prices range from $500 to
$5,000 for acoustical drum outfits and from $2,000 to $15,000 for tuned
percussion instruments, with specialized tuned instruments purchased by
symphonies and orchestras selling for up to $20,000.  Sales of percussion instruments accounted for
14% of our band division revenue in 2005. 

String Instruments   - We assemble
and distribute violins, violas, cellos, and basses.  Products are sold under the brand names   Glaesel, Scherl   Roth,   and   W    illiam Lewis  
Son  .  Suggested retail prices
generally range from $200 to $4,000 for student instruments and from $1,400 to
$4,700 for intermediate and advanced instruments, with specialized instruments
selling for up to $13,000. Components are primarily imported from Europe and
Asia and assembled at our factory in Ohio. 
Sales of string instruments accounted for 3% of our band division
revenue in 2005. 

Accessories    - We manufacture mouthpieces and distribute
accessories such as music stands, batons, mallets, straps, mutes, reeds, pads,
chin rests, strings, bows, cases and instrument care products.  Sales of accessories accounted for 13% of our
band division revenue in 2005.  

5  

Customers   

Piano Segment   

Most Steinway grand piano sales are to individuals,
both professional artists and amateur pianists. 
Our typical customer is between 40 and 50 years old and has an
intermediate to advanced level of musical skill.  He or she holds a graduate degree and reports
an annual household income over $300,000.  

We also sell pianos to institutions such as concert
halls, conservatories, colleges, universities and music schools.  Nearly 20% of pianos sold in 2005 were to
institutional customers.  We have a
specific program focused on increasing piano sales to music schools, as this market
segment is typically less sensitive to economic cycles.  Institutions can earn the  All-Steinway
School  designation by owning primarily Steinway-designed pianos, enabling them
to provide their students and faculties with the best instruments possible for
the study of music, from the practice room to the recital hall.  To date, 57 schools and conservatories
worldwide have earned the designation  All-Steinway School.     

Market size and volume trends are difficult to
quantify for international piano markets, as there is no single source for
worldwide sales data.  Outside the United
States, our strongest market shares are in Germany, Switzerland, the United
Kingdom, and France.  We believe that we
hold an average grand piano market share of approximately 16% in these
countries.  We also continue to expand
our presence in former Eastern Bloc countries where we significantly increased
sales in 2005.  

Outside of the United States, China is currently the second
largest grand piano market in the world. 
With our three piano lines, we believe our market share of grand piano
units is currently 3% in China.  In 2004,
we opened a distribution and selection facility in Shanghai.  Our unit sales in China increased over 50% in
2005 and we expect a large portion of our long-term growth to come from this market.  

In 2005, approximately 57% of piano sales were in the
United States, 28% in Europe and the remaining 15% primarily in Asia.  Our largest piano dealer accounted for
approximately 5% of piano sales in 2005, while the top 15 accounts represented
29% of piano sales.  

Band Segment    

Band   orchestral instruments are sold to
student, amateur and professional musicians, and institutions.  The majority of our instruments are purchased
or rented from dealers by students enrolled in music education programs in the
United States.  Traditionally, students
join school bands or orchestras at age 10 or 11 and learn on beginner level
instruments, progressing to intermediate or professional level instruments in
high school or college.  We estimate that
approximately 85% of our domestic band sales are generated through educational
programs.  The remaining domestic band
sales are to amateur or professional musicians or performing groups, including
orchestras and symphonies. Student level instruments accounted for
approximately 65% of band   orchestral unit sales and approximately
40% of instrument revenues in 2005, with intermediate and professional
instruments representing the balance.  

Historically, over 80% of our band sales have been in
the United States.  We believe that the
Asian and European markets present significant opportunities for growth due to
the quality of our instruments and the strength of our brand names.  By focusing on these markets, we increased
exports by approximately 20% during 2005.  

In 2005, approximately 79% of band sales were in the
United States, 8% in Europe and the remaining 13% primarily in Canada and
Asia.  Our largest band dealer accounted
for approximately 6% of band sales in 2005, while the top 15 accounts
represented approximately 40% of band sales.  

6  

Sales and
Marketing   

Piano Segment   

We
distribute our pianos worldwide through approximately 185 independent dealers
who operate nearly 300 showrooms. We also sell our pianos through nine company
operated retail showrooms: four in the United States and five in Europe.  We have subsidiaries and dealers in both
Japan and China that provide direct access to the growing Asian piano market.
Sales to dealers accounted for approximately 75% of piano segment revenue in
2005. The remaining 25% was generated from sales made directly by us at one of
our nine company operated retail showrooms.  

We employ district sales managers whose
responsibilities include developing close working relationships with piano
dealers. These highly experienced professionals provide dealers with sales
training and technical support, and develop sales and marketing programs for
the consumer and institutional markets. 
These sales managers are also responsible for promoting the Steinway
Artist Program described below.  

Steinway Artist Program   -
Steinway Artists are world-class pianists who voluntarily endorse Steinway  
Sons by selecting the Steinway piano. 
Our Steinway Artist program is unique in that we do not pay artists to
endorse our instruments.  To become a
Steinway Artist, a pianist must not only meet certain performance and
professional criteria, he or she must also own a Steinway piano.  We use these renowned artists in our marketing
programs to help reinforce recognition of the Steinway brand name and its
association with quality.  The Steinway
Artist Program currently includes approximately 1,300 of the world s finest
pianists who perform on Steinway pianos. 
In return for their endorsements, Steinway Artists are provided with
access to the Concert and Artist Piano Bank. 

Concert and Artist Piano Bank   -
To ensure that all pianists, especially Steinway Artists, have a broad
selection of instruments to meet their individual touch and tonal preferences,
we maintain the Concert and Artist Piano Bank. 
The Piano Bank includes approximately 500 instruments worldwide.  Of these instruments, approximately 375 are located
in the United States.  In New York City
alone, the Piano Bank includes approximately 140 concert grands available for
various occasions.  The remaining
domestic-based pianos are leased to dealers around the country who actively
support the Steinway Artists program. 
The Piano Bank promotes our instruments in the music industry and provides
management with continual feedback on the quality and performance of recently
produced instruments from our most critical customer, the professional
pianist.  The Piano Bank instruments are
generally sold after five years and replaced with new pianos. 

Band Segment   

Our band   orchestral, string and percussion
instruments and related accessories are distributed worldwide through
approximately 1,700 independent musical instrument dealers and distributors.  

In North America, we market our products through
district sales managers and telemarketing representatives who are responsible
for sales within assigned geographic territories. Each district sales manager
is also responsible for developing relationships with band  
orchestral directors.  These directors
represent all levels of music educators, from those who teach elementary school
children through those involved at the college and professional levels. These
individuals are the primary influencers in the choice of an instrument brand as
they will generally refer students to designated dealers for the purchase of
instruments.  

7  

As part of our band director outreach and support
strategy, we have developed Conn-Selmer University ( CSU ).  Originally created to   help graduating
music education majors transition into teaching careers, we have expanded CSU
to include three additional tracks: one for experienced music educators,
another for music dealer representatives, and another for music business students.  We also have   an educational director who travels extensively,
lecturing and motivating students, educators and parents on the value of music
in a child s development.  We believe
that our well-established, long-standing relationships with influential music
educators are an important component of our distribution strategy and that our
CSU efforts will further enhance these relationships.  

To reach international markets, we primarily sell our
instruments through distributors.  We reorganized our international sales
staff to include regional sales directors who have more direct contact with our
customers overseas.  

We support our dealers and distributors through
incentive programs, advertising and promotional activities.  We reach our
customers through trade shows, educator conferences, print media, direct mail,
telemarketing, the Internet and personal sales calls. We also actively
advertise in educator and trade publications and provide educational materials,
catalogs and product specifications to students, educators, dealers and
distributors.    

Competition   

Piano Segment   

Steinway   Sons    - The level of
competition our pianos face depends on the market definition.    S  teinway   Sons pianos hold a unique
position at the top end of the grand piano market, both in terms of quality and
price.  While there are many makers of
pianos, only a few compete directly with our Steinway brand.  Other manufacturers of primarily higher
priced pianos include B sendorfer and Fazioli.  

Because Steinway pianos are
built to last for generations, used Steinways are the primary competition in
our market segment.  It is difficult to
estimate the significance of used piano sales, since most are conducted in the
private aftermarket.  However, we have
increased our emphasis on restoration services and the procurement,
refurbishment and sale of used Steinway pianos to help us mitigate the impact
of these aftermarket sales on our piano business.  

Boston Piano Company      While our
mid-priced pianos compete with brands such as Baldwin and Schimmel, our primary
competition has been from Japanese and Korean manufacturers such as Kawai,
Yamaha and Young Chang.  By working with
manufacturers in the same geographic areas, we have been able to enjoy labor costs
and manufacturing efficiencies similar to those of our primary competitors
while offering consumers the added benefit of pianos designed by Steinway  
Sons.  

In recent years,   p  iano manufacturing in China has been
growing at a rapid pace.  While the vast
majority of the production continues to be upright pianos, Chinese
manufacturers have begun producing low-priced, smaller grand pianos.  In 2005, we established a relationship with
Pearl River Piano Group, the largest piano manufacturer in China, to build
pianos for our Essex line.  Through this
new OEM relationship, we will be able to offer pianos priced in a considerably
more competitive price range than previously available, bringing a good measure
of Steinway design benefits to a wider reach of consumers.  We expect to introduce several new Essex
models in 2006.  

8  

Band Segment   

We are the largest domestic producer of band  
orchestral instruments.  We enjoy leading
market shares with many of our professional level instruments.  Yamaha, a Japanese corporation, is our
largest competitor.  New entrants into
the domestic market generally experience difficulty competing due to the need
for both brand recognition and an effective distribution system.   

Competition for sales of student level instruments in
the United States has intensified in recent years due to the growth of offshore
manufacturers.  These producers benefit
from low labor costs, enabling them to offer instruments at highly competitive
prices.  It is difficult to quantify the
impact of imported musical instruments since the majority of offshore
manufacturers do not report data through industry channels.  

Patents
and Trademarks   

Steinway   Sons pioneered the development of
the modern piano with over 125 patents granted since our founding.  While we have several patents effective and
pending in the United States and in several foreign countries, we do not
believe our business is materially dependent upon any single patent.  

We also have some of the most well-known brand names
in the music industry.  Our piano
trademarks include   Steinway, Steinway  
Sons,   the Lyre design,   Boston, Boston designed by
Steinway   Sons, Heirloom Collection,      Crown Jewel Collection   and   Essex  . Our band  
orchestral trademarks include   Bach, Selmer, C.G. Conn,
Leblanc, King, Armstrong, Ludwig, Musser, Holton, Vito, Glaesel, Scherl  
Roth, Emerson, William Lewis   Son, Noblet,   and   Artley.    We consider
our trademarks to be important and valuable assets.  It is possible that the termination,
expiration or infringement of one or more of our trademarks may have an adverse
affect on our business, depending on the trademark and the jurisdiction.  Accordingly, we maintain trademark
registrations in appropriate jurisdictions on an ongoing basis and vigorously
pursue any infringement by competitors.  

Raw Materials,
Component Parts, and Sourced Products   

Our raw materials consist primarily of metals and
woods.  The majority of these materials
is sourced from the Americas, with the balance coming from Europe, Asia and
Africa.  We acquired our sole domestic
piano plate manufacturer and primary piano key maker to ensure availability of
these component parts.  Component parts
for string and percussion instruments are imported from Europe and Asia.  We have had adequate supplies of raw materials
and component parts in the past and do not expect any disruption to the supply
of these items during 2006 or in the future.  

Currently, our Boston and Essex piano lines are each
sourced from a single manufacturer, as are our Selmer Paris instruments and
certain other component parts.  Although
we may experience delays in availability of product due to the lead times
required by these manufacturers, we do not anticipate any material disruptions
to the supply of these products.  Some of
our entry-level band instruments are also sourced from single
manufacturers.  We continually scrutinize
these suppliers and the quality of products that they manufacture for us and we
believe that we have a sufficient number of qualified suppliers to ensure
availability of all offered products in the upcoming year.  

9  

Labor   

As of December 31, 2005, we employed 2,443
people, consisting of 1,849 hourly production workers and 594 salaried
employees.  Of the 2,443 employees, 1,884
were employed in the United States and the remaining 559 were employed
primarily in Europe.  

Approximately 60% of our workforce in the United
States is represented by labor unions.  The
Company believes that relations with its employees and most of these unions are
generally good.  The following table
indicates the union representation and the current status of our collective
bargaining agreements in the United States:  

We are currently in labor negotiations with the union
that represents 234 employees at our brass instrument manufacturing plant in
Elkhart, Indiana.  We may not be able to
come to a new agreement before the current agreement expires on April 1,
2006.    

In Germany, the workers  council represents all
employees other than management. 
Nevertheless, most employment contract conditions are settled in
collective bargaining agreements made between various trade unions and the
employer organizations to which we belong. Generally, agreements are negotiated
on an annual basis.  The Company believes
that relations with its employees and these unions are generally good.  

10  

Item
1A.  Risk Factors   

An investment in our company involves risk. In
addition to the other information in this report, prospective investors should
carefully consider the following risks before making an investment.  The risks described below are not the only
risks we face.  There may be additional
risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know of or that we currently
consider immaterial. All of these risks could adversely affect our business,
financial condition, or results of operations.  

We operate in competitive
markets   

Our success depends upon our ability to maintain our
share of the musical instrument market by providing the best instruments at
prices equal to or below our competitors providing instruments of comparable
quality.  Increased competition could
lead to price reductions, fewer large sales to institutions, reduced operating
margins and loss of market share.  Our
piano division currently competes with companies such as Bechstein,
B sendorfer, Fazioli, Kawai and Yamaha, which also produce and market pianos at
the higher end of the market.  Because of
the potential savings associated with buying a used instrument, as well as the
durability of the Steinway piano, a relatively large market exists for used
Steinway pianos.  It is difficult to
estimate the significance of used piano sales, because most are conducted in
the private aftermarket.  However, we
believe that used Steinway pianos provide the most significant competition in
the high-end piano market.  Our band  
orchestral division competes with a number of domestic and Asian manufacturers
of musical instruments, including Jupiter and Yamaha.  Any of our competitors may concentrate their
resources upon efforts to compete in our markets.  In addition, Asian musical instrument
manufacturers have made significant strides in recent years to improve their
product quality.  They now offer a broad
range of quality products at highly competitive prices and represent a
significant competitive challenge for us. 
Our failure to compete effectively could have a negative impact on our
results of operations.  

Economic downturns and changes in consumer preferences
could adversely affect our business   

Our business is subject to a number of general
economic factors, many of which are out of our control, that may, among other
things, result in a decrease in sales and net income. Sales of musical
instruments are dependent in part upon discretionary consumer spending, which may
be affected by general economic conditions. 
For example, Steinway, which represents more than half of our net sales,
sells a relatively small number of Steinway   Sons grand pianos each
year (3,145 in 2005).  Given the small
number of pianos we sell, even a slight decrease in sales could adversely
affect our profitability.  Band  
orchestral sales are also dependent upon the continued interest of school-aged
children in playing musical instruments. 
Any decrease in consumer spending or reduction in school-aged children s
interest in music could result in decreased sales, which could adversely affect
our business and operating results. 
Furthermore, terrorist activities, war or other armed conflict involving
the United States or its interests abroad may result in a downturn in the U.S
and global economies, thus reducing spending on luxury goods and may exacerbate
the risks to our business.   

We could
be subject to work stoppages or other business interruptions as a result
of our unionized work force   

A significant portion of our hourly employees are
represented by various union locals and covered by collective bargaining
agreements.  These agreements contain
various expiration dates and must be renegotiated upon expiration.  A collective bargaining agreement covering
the employees in one of our   

11  

band manufacturing facilities in Elkhart, Indiana, expires in April 2006
and another agreement covering employees in our piano manufacturing facility in
New York expires in December 2006.   We cannot assure investors that
we will be able to reach agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, or at
all.  If we are unable to
negotiate any of our collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms
prior to expiration, we could experience disruptions in our operations.  Our most recent work stoppage occurred
at two of our band   orchestral manufacturing plants in January and
March of 2003 and lasted for approximately 13 weeks and 9 weeks,
respectively.  Any future prolonged work
stoppage or delay in renegotiating collective bargaining agreements could
have a material adverse effect on our operations.   

Any
significant disruption in our supply from key suppliers could delay production
and adversely affect our sales   

Our Boston and Essex piano lines, our Selmer Paris
instruments, and many of our student level band   orchestral
instruments are sourced from single foreign manufacturers.  We are highly dependent on the availability
of essential materials and purchased components from our suppliers, some of
which may be available only from limited resources.  Moreover, we are dependent upon the
availability of our suppliers to provide material that meets specifications,
quality standards and delivery schedules. 
Our suppliers  failure to provide expected raw materials or component
parts could adversely affect production schedules and profitability.  

Although we have had adequate supplies of raw
materials and component parts in the past, there is no assurance that we may
not experience serious interruptions in the future.  Our continued supply of materials is subject
to a number of risks including: 1) the destruction of our suppliers  facilities
or their distribution infrastructure; 2) work stoppages or strikes by our
suppliers  employees; 3) the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of
the requisite quality; 4) the failure of essential equipment at our suppliers 
plants; 5) the failure or shortage of supply of raw materials to our suppliers;
and 6) contractual amendments and disputes with our suppliers.    

We cannot assure investors that our suppliers will
continue to provide products to us at attractive prices or at all, or that we
will be able to obtain such products in the future from these or other
providers on the scale and within the time periods we require.  Furthermore, we cannot assure investors that
substitute raw materials or component parts will meet the strict specification
and quality standards we impose.  If we
are not able to obtain key materials, supplies, components or sourced
instruments on a timely basis and at affordable costs, or we experience
significant delays or interruptions of their supply, it could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

We may be
unable to successfully integrate acquisitions of related companies into our
business   

We have historically acquired other businesses whose
operations or product lines complement our existing business, including Leblanc
in August 2004.  We continually
explore new opportunities to enter into business combinations with other
companies in order to maintain and grow our revenues and market presence.  These potential transactions with other
companies create risks such as difficulty in assimilating the personnel,
customers, technology, products and operations with our personnel, customers,
technology, products and operations; disruption of our ongoing business,
including loss of management focus on existing businesses; and impairment of
relationships with existing executives, employees, customers and business
partners.  In addition, we may not be
able to identify suitable candidates for these transactions or obtain financing
or otherwise make these transactions on acceptable terms.  Furthermore, the benefits that we anticipate
from these potential transactions may not develop as expected and we cannot be
sure that we will recover our investment in any such strategic transaction.  

12  

Shifts in
our product mix may result in declines in our gross margins and profit levels   

Our gross margins vary among our product groups and
have fluctuated from quarter to quarter as a result of shifts in product mix
(that is, how much of each product type we sell in any particular quarter).  The introduction of new band products,
decreases in average selling prices and shifts in the proportion of student
level instruments to professional level instruments may cause variances in our
gross margins.  We also experience
variances in our gross margins as a result of shifts in the proportion of our
piano retail sales to wholesale sales, as well as changes in amounts of piano
sales to territories where we realize more favorable pricing.  For example, our product sales in the former
Eastern Bloc countries generally produce higher margins because most sales are
at retail prices.  We expect fluctuations
in gross margins to continue in the future.   

Failure
of our new products to gain market acceptance may adversely affect our
operating results   

New products may not achieve significant market
acceptance or generate sufficient sales to permit us to recover development,
manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products.  Achieving market acceptance for new products
may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to expand
consumer demand.  These requirements
could strain our management, financial and operational resources.  Furthermore, failure of our new products to
achieve market acceptance could prevent us from maintaining our existing
customer base, gaining new customers or expanding our markets and could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.  Additionally, price
competition among our various brand names may adversely affect our sales,
revenues and profitability.  For example,
our mid-priced Essex line of pianos may be priced lower than our Boston line,
therefore potentially diminishing sales of our Boston pianos.  

Since we
have a limited number of facilities, any loss of use of any of our facilities
could adversely affect our operations   

Our operations with respect to specific products are
concentrated in a limited number of manufacturing facilities.  Because we are heavily dependent on each of
these facilities, our operations would be adversely affected if we experience a
disruption in business at any particular facility for a prolonged period of
time because we would not have adequate substitute facilities available to us.  

Our
operations may subject us to liabilities for environmental matters, the costs
of which could be material   

Our manufacturing operations involve the use,
handling, storage, treatment and disposal of materials and waste products that
may be toxic or hazardous.  Consequently,
we are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental laws and
regulations, specifically those relating to discharges to air, water and land,
the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of
properties contaminated by hazardous substances.  Many environmental laws impose strict,
retroactive, joint and several liability broadly upon owners and operators of
properties, including with respect to environmental matters that occurred prior
to the time the party became an owner or operator.  In addition, we may have liability with
respect to third-party sites to which we sent wastes for disposal in the
past.  Our potential liability at any of
these sites is affected by many factors including, but not limited to, the
method of remediation, our portion of the hazardous substances at the site
relative to that of other responsible parties, the number of responsible
parties, the financial capabilities of other parties, and contractual rights
and obligations.  

13  

We have obligations and liability with respect to the
remediation of current and former properties and third party waste disposal
sites.  The liabilities and obligations
in some cases are covered by indemnification agreements and we have accrued liabilities
for sites where the liability is probable and can be estimated.  We cannot guarantee the indemnitors will
continue to fund the cleanup liability or that the actual costs of cleanup will
not exceed our present accruals. 
Furthermore, we may be required to fund additional remedial programs in
connection with other additional current, former or future facilities.  

Future events, such as the discovery of additional
contamination or other information concerning past releases of hazardous
substances at our manufacturing sites (or at sites to which we sent wastes for
disposal), changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation, and
more rigorous efforts by regulatory authorities, may require additional
expenditures by us to modify operations, install pollution control equipment,
clean contaminated sites or curtail our operations.  These expenditures could have a material
negative impact on our operations.  

We may
not be able to protect our proprietary information   

We rely in part on patent, trade secret, unfair
competition, trade dress and trademark laws to protect our rights to aspects of
our business and products, including product designs, proprietary manufacturing
processes and technologies.  The laws of
many foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as
laws in the United States.  In addition,
although we may have rights to a particular trademark in a given country, we
may not have similar rights to that trademark in other countries.  

Changes
in our effective tax rates could affect future results   

As an international company, we are subject to
taxation in the United States and various other foreign jurisdictions in which
we do business.  Some of these foreign
jurisdictions have higher statutory rates than those in the United States, and
certain of our international earnings are also taxable in the United States.  Accordingly, our effective tax rates will
vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to U.S. income and
absorption of foreign tax credits, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax
assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws.  In addition, we are subject to examination of
our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities.  We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse
outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our
income tax reserves and expense.  Should
actual events or results differ from our current expectations, charges or
credits to our income tax expense reserves and income tax expense may become
necessary.  Any such adjustments could
have a significant impact on our results of operations.   

Our
foreign operations are exposed to risks associated with foreign regulations,
exchange rate fluctuations, trade restrictions and political, economic and
social instability   

We manufacture, market and distribute our products
worldwide.  As a result, we are subject
to the risks normally associated with foreign operations.  For example, foreign regulations may limit
our ability to produce and sell some of our products or repatriate profits to
the United States.  In addition, a
foreign government may impose trade or foreign exchange restrictions or
increased tariffs, which could adversely affect our operations.  Our operations may also be negatively
impacted by political, economic and social instability in foreign countries in
which we operate.  We are also exposed to
risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations.  A strengthening of the U.S. dollar, the
Japanese yen, the British pound, the Chinese yuan or the euro relative to each
other or other foreign currencies could have a negative impact on us.  Although we sometimes engage in transactions
to protect against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, we
cannot be sure that these fluctuations will not have an adverse effect on
us.  Sales outside the United States
accounted for approximately 33% of our net sales in 2005.  

14  

The
requirements of complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may strain our resources
and distract management   

As a public company, we are subject to the reporting
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls
and procedures, corporate governance standards and internal controls over
financial reporting.  Although we devote
significant time and resources to ensure ongoing compliance with the reporting
requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley, we can give no assurance that we will continue
to meet these requirements in the future or that reportable conditions or
material weakness in our internal controls and procedures may not arise despite
our best efforts prevent them.  While we
have taken and continue to take all steps necessary to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley,
including internal controls, our failure to meet the requirements of
Sarbanes-Oxley could negatively impact our business, financial condition and
results of operations.  In addition, the
effort to comply with these obligations may divert management s attention from
other business concerns.  

Messrs. Kirkland
and Messina exercise significant control over us, which could adversely affect investors   

Mr. Kyle R. Kirkland, Chairman of the Board, and Mr. Dana
D. Messina, Chief Executive Officer, hold in the aggregate 100% of our Class A
common stock, representing approximately 86% of the voting power of our company s
capital stock.  So long as Messrs. Kirkland
and Messina continue to hold a majority of the voting power, they will be able,
acting together, to exercise a controlling influence over our company,
including with respect to the composition of our board of directors and,
through it, the direction and policies of the Company.  We cannot assure that Messrs. Kirkland
and Messina will not pursue other business interests that will conflict with investors 
interests.  

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff
Comments   

None.  

15  

Item
2.  Properties   

We own most of our manufacturing and warehousing
facilities, as well as the building that includes Steinway Hall in New York
City.  The remaining Steinway retail
stores are leased.  Substantially all of
the domestic real estate has been pledged to secure our debt.  

The
following table lists our significant owned and leased facilities:  

Location   

Owned/ 
  Leased   

Approximate 
  Floor Space 
  (Square Feet)   

Type of Facility and Activity Performed   

Long Island
  City, NY  

Owned  

450,000  

Piano
  manufacturing; restoration center; administrative offices  

New York, NY  

Owned  

217,000  

Piano retail
  store/showroom; office rental property  

Westport, CT  

Leased  

11,000  

Piano retail
  store/showroom  

Coral Gables, FL  

Leased  

6,000  

Piano retail
  store/showroom  

Paramus, NJ  

Leased  

4,000  

Piano retail
  store/showroom  

Springfield, OH  

Owned  

110,000  

Piano plate
  manufacturing  

Hamburg, Germany  

Owned  

221,000  

Piano
  manufacturing; executive offices  

Leased  

6,000  

Piano retail
  store/showroom  

Munich, Germany  

Leased  

15,000  

Piano retail
  store/showroom  

Berlin, Germany  

Leased  

7,000  

Piano retail store/showroom/service
  workshop  

Wuppertal,
  Germany  

Leased  

27,000  

Piano key
  manufacturing  

Wilkow, Poland  

Owned  

10,000  

Piano key
  manufacturing  

Shanghai, China  

Leased  

12,000  

Piano
  warehouse/showroom/workshop  

London, England  

Leased  

10,000  

Piano showroom  

Leased  

6,000  

Piano
  workshop/storage  

Tokyo, Japan  

Leased  

9,000  

Piano selection
  center; warehouse  

Leased  

2,000  

Administrative
  offices  

Eastlake, OH  

Owned  

160,000  

Brass instrument
  manufacturing  

Elkhart, IN  

Owned  

150,000  

Brass instrument
  manufacturing  

Owned  

88,000  

Woodwind
  manufacturing; warehouse; office  

Owned  

81,000  

Warehouse  

Owned  

25,000  

Administrative
  offices  

Elkhorn, WI  

Owned  

58,000  

Brass instrument
  manufacturing  

Kenosha, WI  

Owned  

95,000  

Woodwind
  manufacturing; warehouse  

Nogales, AZ  

Owned  

22,000  

Former woodwind
  instrument manufacturing, rental property  

LaGrange, IL  

Owned  

46,000  

Percussion
  instrument manufacturing  

Monroe, NC  

Leased  

154,000  

Drum and case
  manufacturing  

Cleveland, OH  

Leased  

62,000  

String
  instrument manufacturing  

London, England  

Leased  

8,000  

Band instrument
  office; warehouse  

LaCouture
  Boussey, France  

Owned  

32,000  

Woodwind
  manufacturing  

We
spent $5.0 million for capital improvements in 2005 consisting primarily of
machinery and equipment upgrades and replacements, facility upgrades, and
telephone and computer system enhancements. 
We expect capital spending in 2006 to be in the range of $5.0-7.0
million, relating to plant improvements, production equipment purchases, and facility
improvements.  

16  

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings   

General   

We are involved in certain legal proceedings regarding
environmental matters, which are described below.  Further, in the ordinary course of business,
we are party to various legal actions that management believes are routine in
nature and incidental to the operation of the business.  While the outcome of such actions cannot be
predicted with certainty, we believe that, based on our experience in dealing
with these matters, their ultimate resolution will not have a material adverse
impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations or
prospects.  

Environmental Matters   

We are required to comply with various federal, state,
local and foreign environmental laws, including those relating to discharges to
air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and
the cleanup of properties contaminated by hazardous substances, including
chlorinated solvents.  Our operations are
subject to environmental laws and regulations that require us to obtain and
maintain permits from regulatory authorities. 
Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or the permits we
have been issued could give rise to significant fines, penalties and other
costs.  We currently do not expect to
incur material expenditures relating to environmental compliance in 2006.  

Certain environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended ( CERCLA ),
impose strict, retroactive, joint and several liability upon persons
responsible for releases of hazardous substances, which liability is broadly
construed.  Under CERCLA and other laws,
we may have liability for investigation and cleanup costs and other damages
relating to our current or former properties, or third-party sites to which we
sent wastes for disposal.  Our potential
liability at any of these sites is affected by many factors including, but not
limited to, the method of remediation, our portion of the hazardous substances
at the site relative to that of other parties, the number of responsible
parties, the financial capabilities of other parties, and contractual rights
and obligations.  

In this regard, we operate certain manufacturing
facilities which were previously owned by Philips Electronics North America
Corporation ( Philips ).  When we
purchased these facilities, Philips agreed to indemnify us for certain
environmental matters resulting from activities of Philips occurring prior to December 29,
1988 (the  Environmental Indemnity Agreement ). 
To date, Philips has fully performed its obligations under the
Environmental Indemnity Agreement, which terminates on December 29, 2008;
however, we cannot assure investors that it will continue to do so in the
future.  Four matters covered by the
Environmental Indemnity Agreement are currently pending.  Philips has entered into Consent Orders with
the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) for one site and the North Carolina
Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources for a second site,
whereby Philips has agreed to pay required response costs.  On October 22, 1998, we were joined as
defendant in an action involving a third site formerly occupied by a business
we acquired in Illinois.  Philips has
accepted the defense of this action pursuant to the terms of the Environmental
Indemnity Agreement.  At the fourth site,
which is a third-party waste disposal site, the EPA has named over 40 persons
or entities as potentially responsible parties ( PRP ), including four
Conn-Selmer predecessor entities.  The
four entities have been involved as members of PRP group in the ongoing
negotiations with the site owners, the largest contributor, and the EPA in an
attempt to reach a settlement and release PRP group members from further
potential liability.  We expect a
decision on the proposed settlement to be reached within the next twelve
months.  For two of these predecessor
entities, which were previously owned by Philips, this matter has been tendered
to  

17  

Philips
pursuant to the Environmental Indemnity Agreement.  With respect to the other two entities, based
on current information concerning estimated cleanup costs at the site, and our
share of liability, we do not believe our liability will be material.  

In addition, we are
continuing an existing environmental remediation plan at a facility we acquired
in 2000.  We estimate our costs, which
approximate $0.9 million, over a 15 year period.  We have accrued approximately $0.7 million
for the estimated cost of this remediation program, which represents the
present value total cost using a discount rate of 4.54%.    A summary of expected payments associated with this
project is as follows:  

In 2004, we acquired two manufacturing facilities from
G. Leblanc Corporation, now Grenadilla, Inc. ( Grenadilla ), for which
environmental remediation plans had already been established.  In connection with the acquisition, we
assumed the existing accrued liability of approximately $0.8 million for the
cost of these remediation activities. 
Based on a review of past and ongoing investigatory and remedial work by
our environmental consultants, discussions with state regulatory officials, and
recent sampling, we estimate the remaining costs of such remedial plans to be
$3.1 million as of December 31, 2005. 
Pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, we have sought
indemnification from Grenadilla for anticipated costs above the original estimate
in the amount of $2.5 million.  We have
filed a claim against the escrow and recorded a corresponding receivable for
this amount. However, we cannot be assured that we will be able to recover such
costs from Grenadilla.  

Based on our past experience and currently available
information, the matters described above and our other liabilities and
compliance costs arising under environmental laws are not expected to have a
material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position
in an individual year.  However, some
risk of environmental liability is inherent in the nature of our current and former
businesses and we may, in the future, incur material costs to meet current or
more stringent compliance, cleanup, or other obligations pursuant to
environmental laws.  

Item 4.  Submission Of Matters To A Vote Of Security
Holders   

No matters were submitted to a vote of our security
holders during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2005.  

18  

PART II   

Item 5.  Markets for Registrant s Common Equity and
Related Stockholder Matters   

Our Ordinary common stock is traded on the New York
Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the  LVB  symbol. The following table sets forth,
for the periods indicated, the high and low share prices of our Ordinary common
stock as reported on the NYSE.  

We have two classes of common stock: Class A and
Ordinary.  With the exception of
disparate voting power, both classes are substantially identical.  Each share of Class A common stock
entitles the holder to 98 votes.  Holders
of Ordinary common stock are entitled to one vote per share.  Class A common stock shall automatically
convert to Ordinary common stock if, at any time, the Class A common stock
is not owned by an original Class A holder.  As of March 24, 2006, there were 3,546
beneficial shareholders of our Ordinary common stock and two holders of record
of the Class A common stock.  

We are restricted by the terms of our outstanding debt
and financing agreements from paying cash dividends on our common stock.  

We presently intend to retain earnings to reduce
outstanding indebtedness and to fund the growth of our business.  The payment of any future dividends will be
determined by the Board of Directors in light of conditions then existing,
including our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements,
restrictions in financing agreements, tax treatment of dividends, business
conditions and other factors.  

19  

Equity
Compensation Plans   

The following table sets
forth the equity compensation plan information for our Employee Stock Purchase
Plan and our Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Plan, which were approved by
security holders:  

Plan Category   

Number of securities  
  to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights 
  (a)   

Weighted-average exercise price
  of outstanding options, warrants and rights 
  (b)   

Number of securities remaining
  available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding
  securities reflected in column (a)) 
  (c)   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders  

836,249  

$  

20.39  

428,233  

Total  

836,249  

$  

20.39  

428,233  

20  

Item
6.  Selected Consolidated Financial Data   

The following table sets forth our selected
consolidated financial data as of and for each of the five years in the period
ended December 31, 2005, as derived from our audited financial
statements.  The table should be read in
conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, including the
footnotes, and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  included elsewhere in this report.  

(In thousands except
share and per share data)  

(1)      We acquired
Leblanc in August 2004. 

21  

Item 7. 
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Thousands)   

Introduction   

The following discussion provides an assessment of the
results of our operations and liquidity and capital resources together with a
brief description of certain accounting policies.  Accordingly, the following discussion should
be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report.  

Overview   

We, through our operating subsidiaries, are one of the
world s leading manufacturers of musical instruments.  Our strategy is to capitalize on our strong
brand names, leading market positions, strong distribution networks, and
quality products.  

Piano
Segment -   Sales of our pianos are influenced by general
economic conditions, demographic trends and general interest in music and the
arts.  The operating results of our piano
segment are primarily affected by Steinway   Sons grand piano
sales.  Given the total number of these
pianos that we sell in any year (3,145 sold in 2005), a slight change in units
sold can have a material impact on our business and operating results.  Our results are also influenced by sales of
Boston and Essex pianos, which together represented over 50% of total piano
units sold but less than 20% of total piano revenues in 2005.  Our Boston and Essex piano lines are
manufactured in Asia, each by a single manufacturer.  The ability of these manufacturers to produce
and ship products to us could impact our business and operating results.  In
2005, approximately 57% of piano sales were in the United States, 28% in Europe
and the remaining 15% primarily in Asia. 
For the year ended December 31, 2005, our piano segment sales were $203.5
million, representing 53% of our total revenues. 

Piano Outlook for
2006      Overall, we expect a relatively stable year for our piano segment
with respect to sales and gross profit. 
We intend to focus on reducing existing inventory levels, developing our
distribution structure in China and implementing various manufacturing
improvement initiatives in the upcoming year. 
We currently have sufficient, but not excessive, manufacturing capacity
to meet anticipated or increased demand.  

Band
Segment -   Our student band instrument sales are influenced by
trends in school enrollment, general attitudes toward music and the arts, and
our ability to provide competitively priced products to our dealer
network.  Management estimates that 85%
of our domestic band sales are generated through educational programs; the
remainder is sales to amateur or professional musicians or performing groups,
including symphonies and orchestras.   

Our sales growth has been adversely affected in recent
years by the abundance of competitively priced imported student instruments
available to our dealers and their ability to purchase these products directly
from offshore sources.  In order to
compete with these mass-merchandised offshore instruments, we restructured our
product offerings to include quality, competitively priced brand-name imported
instruments that are built to our specifications.  We now offer quality-controlled, brand-name
products at multiple price points through distribution channels which support
the music education market.  Our product
offerings are tailored to the needs of traditional school music dealers who
provide full-service rental programs to beginning band students, as well as
music retailers and e-commerce dealers selling directly to end consumers from
their stores or through the Internet.  We
believe our product offerings have helped us remain competitive at various
price points and will continue to do so in the future.  

22  

In 2005, beginner instruments accounted for
approximately 65% of band   orchestral unit shipments and
approximately 40% of band instrument revenues, with advanced and professional
instruments representing the balance. In 2005, approximately 79% of band sales
were in the United States, 8% in Europe and the remaining 13% primarily in Canada
and Asia.  For the year ended December 31,
2005, our band sales were $183.6 million, representing 47% of our total
revenues.  

Band Outlook for 2006     We are entering 2006 with increased orders
for both U.S. made and sourced products and expect to see improvement in both
revenues and gross profit in the coming year. 
Focused sales efforts have resulted in an expanding customer base in the
U.S, particularly for percussion instruments, and in our export markets.  We are working more closely with our customers
to understand their requirements so we may improve the coordination of product
availability with their needs.  We expect
continued improvement in the flow of sourced product from our suppliers as we
monitor their capacity.  Our efforts to
improve productivity at our various facilities should continue to yield more
efficient production levels.  This,
coupled with an increase in sales of sourced products, should lead to improved
margins in 2006. 

Inflation
and Foreign Currency Impact -   Although we cannot accurately
predict the precise effect of inflation on our operations, we do not believe
that inflation has had a material effect on sales or results of operations in
recent years. 

Sales to customers outside the United States
represented 33% of consolidated sales in 2005. 
We record sales in euro, Japanese yen, British pounds, and Chinese yuan.  In 2005, we generated 69% of our
international sales through our piano segment. 
Foreign exchange rate changes impacted sales by less than $1.0 million
in the current year.  Although currency
fluctuation affects international sales, it also affects cost of sales and
related operating expenses. 
Consequently, it generally has not had a material impact on operating
income.  We use financial instruments
such as forward exchange contracts and currency options to reduce the impact of
exchange rate fluctuations on firm and anticipated cash flow exposures and
certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency of the affected division. 
We do not purchase currency-related financial instruments for purposes
other than exchange rate risk management.  

Taxes
    We are subject to U.S. income taxes as well as tax in
several foreign jurisdictions in which we do business.  Some of these foreign jurisdictions have
higher statutory rates than the United States. 
In addition, certain of our operations are subject to both U.S. and
foreign taxes.  However, in such cases we
receive a credit against our U.S. taxes for foreign taxes paid equal to the
percentage that such foreign income (as adjusted for reallocated interest) represents
of the total income subject to U.S. tax. 
Accordingly, our effective tax rates will vary depending on the relative
proportion of foreign to U.S. income and the absorption of foreign tax credits
in the United States.  In 2003, we were
able to utilize foreign tax credits carried forward from prior years due to the
higher proportion of our foreign source income to overall income.  In 2004, we were able to use the majority, but
not all, of the foreign tax credits generated in that period.  However, because the American Jobs Creation
Act of 2004 (the  Act ) extended the foreign tax credit carryover period, we
were able to recognize a partial benefit for the excess foreign tax credits
generated in 2004.  In 2005, we were unable
to utilize approximately one third of the foreign tax credits generated in the
current period.  This, coupled with the
income generated in higher rate jurisdictions such as Germany, resulted in an
increase in our overall tax rate in the current year.   

The strengthening of our domestic piano and band
businesses is expected to result in less effective use of our foreign tax
credits and credit carryforwards in the upcoming year.  We also anticipate higher  

23  

pretax
income in many of the states in which we do business.  These events may have an adverse impact on
our effective tax rate for 2006.  Our
overall tax rate will also be influenced by our ability to effectively use
losses generated in certain tax jurisdictions. 

Results
of Operations   

Fiscal
Year 2005 Compared to Fiscal Year 2004  

24  

Overview     In 2005 we
continued strengthening our band business. 
Our purchase of substantially all of the assets of G. Leblanc Corporation
in August 2004 resulted in sales growth for the segment.  We merged the administrative office
operations of Leblanc into our existing operations in May 2005, thereby
eliminating duplicative administrative costs. 
 Production at our woodwind
facility, which was low in the early part of the year as we trained new
workers, had significantly improved by the end of the period, and we continue
to experience period over period improvement in our band segment margins.   

Our
domestic piano division sales decreased due to unusually high turnover in sales
personnel at the retail level, coupled with decreased demand for our Boston
Piano lines. However, overall piano segment sales remained stable, primarily
due to the revenue generated by our European divisions.  Piano margins declined slightly due to
inefficiencies at both piano manufacturing facilities.  

Net Sales     Net sales increased $12.1 million as a
result of the increase in band division sales, which was caused primarily by
incremental sales of Leblanc product through the first three quarters of
2005.  Overall band unit shipments
increased 5.9%, due to the increase in brass and woodwind unit shipments of
9.5% (the largest component of the band business).  Total piano sales remained stable at $203.5
million.  Domestically, sales declined,
in part due to attrition of retail sales staff in the early part of the year,
as well as the 11% decrease in unit shipments of our Boston piano lines.  In the U.S., mid and lower-priced piano sales
are being adversely impacted by the influx of low-priced Asian imports.  However, the shift in mix towards higher
priced units sold by our German division resulted in consistent piano segment
revenues. 

Gross Profit         Gross profit
improved $2.4 million driven by an increase in band sales and band margins.  Band margins were less affected by atypical
charges in the current period. These costs totaled $1.6 million in 2005, and
arose from the sell through of purchased Leblanc inventory, which was written
up to fair value upon acquisition.  In
the prior period, atypical charges totaled $2.6 million, comprised of $1.2
million from the sell through of purchased Leblanc inventory, and $1.4 million
from severance costs associated with plant closures.  Band margins also benefited from a large,
high margin sales transaction in the beginning of the fourth quarter.  Piano segment gross profit decreased $1.5
million despite the beneficial sales mix towards higher margin grands sold by
our German division. The adverse impact of factory inefficiencies due in part
to the disruptions caused by implementing production line improvements, as well
as a larger book-to-physical inventory adjustment at our domestic piano
manufacturing facility were the primary causes of the piano margin decrease. 

Operating Expenses     Operating expenses increased $1.8 million, despite
the decrease in external costs associated with Sarbanes-Oxley compliance
efforts, which were approximately $1.2 million less in 2005.  The incremental operating expenses are
primarily sales and marketing, $0.9 million of which resulted from commissions associated
with the large sales transaction described above.  Piano sales commissions also increased as a
result of the favorable performance by the German division.  In addition, this division had incremental
public relations and advertising costs of $0.2 million as a result of its 125 th 
anniversary celebrations. Lastly, $0.9 million in additional operating expenses
were associated with Leblanc, and were incurred in the early part of the year,
prior to the consolidation of band administrative offices. 

Non-operating
Expenses     Non-operating expenses increased $2.6 million in
2005.  Approximately $0.5 million of this
increase relates to losses on extinguishment of debt, which resulted from the
buyback of $8.2 million of our 8.75% Senior Notes at 105%, and the write off of
the corresponding deferred financing costs. 
A shift of $0.3 million from foreign exchange gains to foreign exchange
losses also contributed to the expense increase.  We incurred additional interest costs of
approximately $0.2 million 

25  

due to the increase in
interest rates during the year.   The
remainder of the expense increase primarily results from reclassification of
certain items from non-operating expenses to operating expenses.  

Results
of Operations   

Fiscal
Year 2004 Compared to Fiscal Year 2003  

Overview     2004 was a year committed to improvement of
our band business.  We continued the
facility rationalization project started in 2003, closing one of our Elkhart,
Indiana plants in April 2004 and moving production into existing
facilities.  Our redesigned distribution
policy enabled us to grow our e-commerce, catalog, music retailer,
professional, and export sales categories. 
Our expanded product line, which includes lower-priced, brand-name
sourced instruments, has been well accepted in the marketplace, and we
experienced increases in sales of these products once we worked through product
availability issues.  However, we
maintained lower-than-normal production levels for certain products in order to
manage inventory levels, which adversely impacted margins.  We were presented with the opportunity to
purchase substantially all of the assets of G. Leblanc Corporation, which
enabled us to strengthen our existing band product lines.  Leblanc faced the same excess capacity issues
we have experienced, having announced the closure of one of its manufacturing
facilities just prior to the acquisition. 
Accordingly, we expect our overall production rationalization activities
to extend beyond the timeframe originally anticipated as we factor Leblanc s
production capabilities into our analysis. 

26  

Our piano business had a very
successful year. Domestic wholesale sales remained strong, and retail sales
were bolstered by the two additional retail stores that were fully operational
for all of 2004.  Our European business
remained stable, while our Asian business improved, primarily due to our
Shanghai facility being operational since spring 2004.  Although sales and marketing expenses were
higher than expected, these costs were more than offset by margin improvements
due to improved production levels, efficiencies, and product mix.  

Net Sales     Net sales increased $37.8 million.      This resulted in part from a 9% increase in
Steinway grand unit shipments, as well as a $6.8 million benefit attributable
to foreign exchange.  The total piano
sales increase of $23.9 million also reflects the increase in higher-priced
retail unit sales resulting from our additional domestic storefronts being
operational for the full year, as well as strong wholesale shipments throughout
the year.  Band   orchestral
instrument sales increased $13.9 million on an overall unit increase of
17%.  The band sales increase includes
$9.6 million attributable to the Leblanc acquisition, with the remainder
resulting from core business growth, especially professional brass and
percussion     instruments. 

Gross Profit         Gross profit
improved $16.6 million primarily due to the piano margin improvement from 34.2%
to 37.1%.  Higher domestic production
levels, overseas production and labor efficiencies, and improved retail sales
were the primary driver of the increase. 
A shift in our international divisions  sales mix towards higher margin
grands sold also contributed to the improvement.  Although band segment gross profit improved
$2.5 million, gross margins declined slightly. Atypical charges affecting
margin in 2004 totaled $2.6 million, comprised primarily of severance and
higher costs associated with the acquisition write-up of Leblanc inventory to
fair value.  In 2003, atypical charges
totaled $6.0 million, including severance costs, strike costs, and inventory
impairment charges.  Despite the
reduction in atypical charges and improved margins on imported student
products, gross margins decreased slightly from 19.7% to 19.6%.  This was primarily due to increased freight
expenses, production inefficiencies for some woodwind products, and reduced
production levels of certain brass instruments. 
Significant increases in costs of raw materials such as silver and
copper also adversely affected band gross margins. 

Operating Expenses         Operating expenses
increased $5.2 million despite the $3.3 million decrease in impairment charges
taken in the prior year.  Over $3.1
million of this increase resulted from external costs associated with our
Sarbanes-Oxley compliance project. $2.2 million of the increase is attributable
to foreign exchange, and we incurred incremental expenses of $1.4 million
associated with Leblanc.  The remainder
of the increase resulted primarily from increased advertising and promotional
costs and increased bonus payments.   

Non-operating
Expenses     Non-operating expenses increased $1.8 million
primarily due to the additional interest expense resulting from our issuance of
$29.0 million of 8.75% Senior Notes in February 2004.      

Liquidity and Capital Resources    

We have relied primarily upon cash provided by operations,
supplemented as necessary by seasonal borrowings under our domestic working
capital line, to finance our operations, repay long-term indebtedness, finance
acquisitions, and fund our capital expenditures.  Our overseas divisions, particularly in Asia,
are normally in a borrowing position on their lines.  These borrowings are likely to be less than
$10.0 million at any given time.  In
2003, our domestic line went virtually unused for the year, in 2004, our
borrowings peaked at approximately $23.0 million, as a result of our
acquisition of the  

27  

net
assets of Leblanc, and in 2005 our borrowings peaked at approximately $11.0
million due to seasonal borrowings.  

Cash
Flows -   Our statements of cash flows are summarized as
follows: 

In 2005, cash flows from operating activities
increased $7.6 million despite the increase in cash used for accounts payable
of $1.9 million.  This improvement was largely
due to the increase in cash provided by inventory and receivables of $8.7
million, which resulted from improved management of work-in-process inventory and
receivables collections at our band division. 
In 2004, cash flows from operating activities decreased $7.0
million.  This resulted primarily from
working capital changes, as inventory increased in part to support our
expansion in Asia, and receivables increased in conjunction with band sales
increases.  Collectively, these working
capital changes used $8.4 million more than in the prior period.  Cash transferred to workers  compensation and
environmental depositary trust funds (which replaced more expensive letters of
credit previously used) also negatively impacted cash flows from operating
activities.   In 2003, cash flows from
operating activities of $30.9 million were driven by our control over
inventory, reduced manufacturing levels, and management of our accounts
receivable and payable.   

The use of cash for investing activities decreased $35.0
million, as $36.8 million was used to fund our acquisition of Leblanc in
2004.  In 2005, cash used for
acquisitions was limited to the $2.2 million final purchase price adjustment
for Leblanc.  Capital expenditures were
slightly lower than in prior periods at $5.0 million in 2005, $5.2 million in
2004, and $5.5 million in 2003.  (See
Capital Expenditures discussion below.) 
The remainder of the decrease is due to the proceeds from sales of fixed
assets, which provided an incremental $0.2 million in the period.    

In 2005, cash flows from financing activities decreased
$16.9 million due in part to the $4.0 million decrease in proceeds from
issuance of stock.  In addition, we
repaid approximately $1.5 million on our line borrowings in the current year,
whereas borrowings provided cash of $2.9 million in the prior period.  Lastly, in December 2005, we repurchased
$8.2 million of our own 8.75% Senior Notes at 105% of face value, which
resulted in a use of cash of $8.6 million. 
In 2004, cash provided by financing activities of $1.0 million resulted
from stock option exercises and employee stock purchase plan activities
totaling $5.7 million, which more than offset the $4.6 million in net
borrowings and scheduled debt repayments. 
In 2003, financing activities consisted primarily of scheduled debt repayments
of $6.5 million, counterbalanced in part by net borrowings of $2.3 million on
our foreign lines of credit.  These
borrowings were made primarily to support an increase in working capital.    

28  

Capital
Expenditures     Our capital
expenditures consist primarily of machinery and equipment upgrades and
replacements, facility upgrades, and telephone and computer system
enhancements.  We expect capital spending
in 2006 to be in the range of $5.0-7.0 million, relating to plant improvements,
production equipment purchases, and facility improvements. 

Seasonality
- -   Consistent with industry practice, we sell band instruments
almost entirely on credit utilizing the two financing programs described
below.  Due to these programs, we have large
working capital requirements during certain times of the year when band
instrument receivable balances reach highs of approximately $80-85 million in August and
September, and lesser requirements when they are at lows of approximately $70-75
million in January and February. 
The financing options, intended to assist dealers with the seasonality
inherent in the industry and facilitate the rent-to-own programs offered to
students by many retailers, also allow us to match our production and delivery
schedules.  The following forms of
financing are offered to qualified band instrument dealers: 

a)          Receivable dating    :   Payments on purchases made from October through August of
the following year are due in October.  Dealers
are offered discounts for early payment. 

b)         Note receivable financing    :   Dealers that meet certain credit qualifications may
convert open accounts to a note payable to us.  The note program is offered primarily in October and
coincides with the receivable dating program. 
The terms of the notes generally include payment over a nine to twelve
month period with interest ranging from 9-11.5%.  Interest rates are contingent upon credit
ratings and borrowing periods.  In certain
situations, long term arrangements for up to 36 months may be offered.  In most instances, the note receivable is
secured by dealer inventories and receivables. 

Off
Balance Sheet Arrangements    In 2004, certain customers of our
Leblanc subsidiary financed notes receivable with a third party, to which we have
a recourse obligation.  As of December 31,
2005, $0.5 million of these notes remain outstanding.  We have included a corresponding recourse
obligation of $0.1 million in our financial statements at period-end.  Our total maximum recourse obligation under
this arrangement includes the outstanding balance on the notes, as well as any
interest or late fees that may be incurred by our customers.  

We generally do not provide extended financing
arrangements to our piano dealers.  To
facilitate long-term financing required by some dealers, we have arranged
financing through third-party providers. 
We generally provide no guarantees with respect to these arrangements.  

Retail Financing Obligations      Certain of our retail sales overseas were
financed by our customers through a local bank under an arrangement that
included an obligation on our part to repurchase pianos seized by the bank upon
default of the customer.  The buyback
price is established as a percentage of the original sales price, starting at
80% in the first year and declining to 30% in the fifth year of the loan.  

This program ceased in the first quarter of 2003.
Nevertheless, because our obligation continues until the bank is paid in full
by the customer, our commitment can remain outstanding for up to 8 years   the
maximum term of the consumer loan.  

29  

Our maximum obligation under this arrangement is
estimated to be approximately  0.6 million ($0.7 million at the December 31,
2005 exchange rate).  To date, we have
not been required to repurchase any pianos under this program and we believe
the likelihood of such repurchases in the future is remote.  Accordingly, we have not recognized a
liability for this obligation in our financial statements.  Further, in the unlikely event of a
repurchase, we believe the proceeds received upon our resale of the piano would
exceed the amount payable to the bank.  

Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits
- -    When
determining the amounts to be recognized in the consolidated financial
statements related to our domestic pension and other postretirement benefits,
we used a long-term rate of return on plan assets of 9%, which was developed
with input from our actuaries and our investment committee, and is consistent
with prior years.  We believe that 9% is
consistent with the historical long-term return trends on our domestic pension
assets and our expectations for future returns. The discount rate utilized for
determining future pension obligations for our domestic plans is based on
long-term bonds receiving an AA- or better rating by a recognized rating
agency.  The resulting discount rate
decreased from 6.0% at December 31, 2004 to 5.75% at December 31, 2005.  

The discount rates and rates of returns on plan assets
for our foreign pension and other postretirement benefit plans were similarly
developed utilizing long-term rates of return and discount rates reasonably
expected to occur in the applicable jurisdiction.  

Borrowing Activities and Availability
- -    Our real estate
term loan, acquisition term loan, and domestic, seasonal borrowing requirements
are accommodated through a committed credit facility with a syndicate of
domestic lenders (the  Credit Facility ). 
The Credit Facility provides us with a potential borrowing capacity of
$85.0 million in revolving credit loans, and expires on September 14,
2008. Borrowings are collateralized by our domestic accounts receivable,
inventory, and fixed assets.  As of December 31,
2005, there were no revolving credit loans outstanding and availability based
on eligible accounts receivable and inventory balances was approximately $83.6
million, net of letters of credit. The real estate term loan is payable in
monthly installments of $0.2 million and includes interest at average 30-day
LIBOR (2.40% at December 31, 2005) plus 1.5%.  This term loan is secured by all of our
interests in the Steinway Hall property. 
The acquisition term loan was repayable in monthly installments of $0.4
million through August 2005 and monthly installments of $0.6 million from September 2005
through September 2008.  The
acquisition term loan and revolving credit loans bear interest at average
30-day LIBOR plus 1.75%.  Subsequent to
year end, the acquisition term loan was paid in full.  All of our borrowings under the Credit
Facility are secured by a first lien on our domestic inventory, receivables,
and fixed assets.  Open account loans
with German banks also provide for borrowings of up to  16.5 million ($19.5
million at December 31, 2005) by Steinway s foreign subsidiaries.  An additional revolving loan provides
borrowing capacity of up to  500 million ($4.2 million at the December 31,
2005 exchange rate).  

On April 19, 2001, we issued $150.0 million 8.75%
Senior Notes due 2011.  In December 2002
we repurchased $4.7 million of our Senior Notes at 99.25%.  In December 2005 we repurchased $8.2
million of our Senior Notes at 105%.  In February 2004
we purchased 1,271,450 shares of our Ordinary common stock directly from our
then largest institutional shareholder. 
In exchange, we issued $29.0 million in principal amount of our 8.75%
Senior Notes due 2011 under the existing indenture.  We issued these bonds at a premium of
106.3%.  This transaction increased our
treasury stock by $31.6 million.    

30  

At December 31,
2005, our total outstanding indebtedness amounted to $203.4 million, consisting
of $166.2 million of 8.75% Senior Notes, $15.4 million on the real estate term
loan, $16.6 million on the acquisition term loan, and $5.2 million of notes
payable to foreign banks. Cash interest paid was $19.4 million in 2005, $17.5
million in 2004, and $14.6 million in 2003. All of our debt agreements contain
covenants that place certain restrictions on us, including our ability to incur
additional indebtedness, to make investments in other entities and to pay cash
dividends. We were in compliance with all such covenants as of December 31,
2005 and do not anticipate any compliance issues in 2006.  

Our
bond indenture contains limitations, based on net income (among other things),
on the amount of discretionary repurchases we may make of our Ordinary common
stock. Our intent and ability to repurchase additional Ordinary common stock
either directly from shareholders or on the open market is directly affected by
this limitation.  

We
have reserved 721,750 shares of our existing treasury stock to be utilized for
the exercise of outstanding stock options under our Amended and Restated 1996
Stock Plan. These options have no impact on our cash flow or the number of
shares outstanding unless and until the options are exercised.  

We
experience long production and inventory turnover cycles, which we constantly
monitor since fluctuations in demand can have a significant impact on these
cycles. We were able to effectively utilize cash flow from operations to fund
our debt and capital requirements and paid off our seasonal borrowings on our
domestic line of credit. Looking forward to 2006, we anticipate that both our
piano and band divisions will perform consistently throughout the period. Our
intention is to keep our balance sheet strong by managing accounts receivable,
working to reduce inventory levels, and repaying debt.  

Other
than the restructuring of our long-term debt as described below, we do not have
any current plans or intentions that will have a material impact on our
liquidity in 2006, although we may consider acquisitions that may require
funding from operations or from our credit facilities. Other than those
described, we are not aware of any trends, demands, commitments, or costs of
resources that are expected to materially impact our liquidity or capital
resources. Accordingly, we believe that cash on hand, together with cash flows
anticipated from operations and available borrowings under the Credit Facility,
will be adequate to meet our debt service requirements, fund continuing capital
requirements and satisfy our working capital and general corporate needs
through 2006.  

Recent
Events   

On February 2,
2006, we repaid our acquisition term loan, which had an outstanding balance of
$16.6 million as of December 31, 2005. As a result of the write-off of
associated deferred financing costs, we recorded a loss of $1.0 million on
extinguishment of this debt in the first quarter of 2006.  

On February 23,
2006 we completed a $175.0 million offering of 7% Senior Notes at 99.2435% of
face value, which resulted in net proceeds to us of $170.2 million. We used
$123.6 million of the proceeds to redeem $114.6 million of our 8.75% Senior
Notes (including accrued interest and associated premiums) pursuant to our
tender offer to repurchase these notes. The early retirement of these notes
will generate a net loss on extinguishment of $5.4 million in the first
quarter. This net loss is comprised primarily of $5.5 million of tender and consent
premiums paid to bondholders, as the $1.2 million of loss on write-off of
deferred financing costs is essentially offset by the $1.3 million of gain
recorded due to our write-off of the bond premium associated with the pre-existing
8.75% Senior Notes.  

31  

We
shall use the remainder of the proceeds from issuance of the 7% Senior Notes,
supplemented by cash on hand, to pay outstanding debt issuance costs, such as
legal fees, and to redeem the remaining $51.6 million of 8.75% Senior Notes,
which we have called at 104.375% plus accrued interest. The early retirement of
these remaining notes, which will occur in April 2006, will generate a
loss on extinguishment of $3.3 million. This loss is comprised of $2.3 million
of call premiums paid to bondholders and $1.0 million due to the write-off of
the remaining deferred financing costs associated with the 8.75% Senior Notes.  

We
will record interest on both the 8.75% Senior Notes and the 7% Senior Notes for
the February   April timeframe during which both series of notes are
outstanding. This duplicate interest expense will be offset in part by interest
income on the unused debt issuance proceeds and is not expected to be material
to the financial statements. Once the duplicate interest period has passed, we
expect interest payment savings of approximately $2.3 million per year.  

Contractual
Obligations -   The following table provides a summary of our
contractual obligations at December 31, 2005. 

Notes
to Contractual Obligations:   

(1) Long-term debt represents long-term debt
obligations, the fixed interest on our Notes, and the variable interest on our
other loans. We estimated the future variable interest obligation using the
applicable December 31, 2005 rates. The nature of our long-term debt
obligations is described more fully in the  Borrowing Availability and
Activities  section of  Liquidity and Capital Resources.   Changes to our long-term debt structure which
occurred subsequent to December 31, 2005 are described in the  Recent Events 
section of  Liquidity and Capital Resources.   

(2) Approximately $255.4 million of our operating
lease obligations are attributable to the ninety-nine year land lease
associated with the purchase of Steinway Hall, which is described in Note 13 in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this filing; the
remainder is attributable to the leasing of other facilities and equipment.  

(3) Purchase obligations consist of firm purchase
commitments for raw materials, finished goods, and equipment.  

(4) Our other long-term liabilities consist
primarily of the long-term portion of our pension obligations, which are
described in Note 14 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
within this filing, and obligations under employee and consultant agreements,
which are described in Note 13 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included within this filing.  

32  

Critical
Accounting Estimates   

The
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) has issued disclosure guidance for  critical
accounting policies . The SEC defines  critical accounting policies  as those
that require application of management s most difficult, subjective or complex
judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of
matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.  

Management
is required to make certain estimates and assumptions during the preparation of
the consolidated financial statements. These estimates and assumptions impact
the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent
assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements.
Estimates and assumptions are reviewed periodically and the effects of
revisions are reflected in the consolidated financial statements in the period
they are determined to be necessary. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.  

The
significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company s 2005 Annual Report
on Form 10-K. Not all of these significant accounting policies require
management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments or estimates.
However, management considers the following estimates to be critical based on
the definition above.  

Accounts
Receivable   

We
establish reserves for accounts receivable and notes receivable (including
recourse reserves when our customers have financed notes receivable with a
third party). We review overall collectibility trends and customer
characteristics such as debt leverage, solvency, and outstanding balances in
order to develop our reserve estimates.  

Inventory   

We
establish inventory reserves for items such as lower-of-cost-or-market and
obsolescence. We review inventory levels on a detailed basis, concentrating on
the age and amounts of raw materials, work-in-process, and finished goods, as
well as recent usage and sales dates and quantities to help develop our
estimates. We also establish reserves for anticipated book-to-physical
adjustments based upon our historical level of adjustments from our annual
physical inventories. We cost our inventory using standard costs. Accordingly,
variances between actual and standard that are not abnormal in nature are
capitalized into inventory and released based on calculated inventory turns.  

Workers 
Compensation and Self-Insured Health Claims   

We
establish workers  compensation and self-insured health claims reserves based
on our trend analysis of data provided by third party administrators regarding
historical claims and anticipated future claims.  

Warranty   

We
establish reserves for warranty claims based on our analysis of historical
claims data, recent claims trends, and the various lengths of time for which we
warranty our products.  

33  

Long-lived
Assets   

We
review long-lived assets, such as property, plant, and equipment, for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability
by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the estimated future cash
flows the asset is expected to generate.  

We
test our goodwill and indefinite-lived trademark assets for impairment annually
or on an interim basis if events or circumstances indicate that the fair value
of an asset may have decreased below its carrying value. Our assessment is
based on several analyses, including multi-year cash flows and comparison of estimated
fair values to our market capitalization.  

Pensions
and Other Post Retirement Benefit Costs   

We
make certain assumptions when calculating our benefit obligations and expenses.
We base our selection of assumptions, such as discount rates and long-term
rates of return, on information provided by our actuaries and investment
committee, current rate trends, and historical trends for our pension asset
portfolio. Our benefit obligations and expenses can fluctuate significantly
based on the assumptions management selects.  

Deferred
Income Taxes   

A
valuation allowance has been recorded for certain deferred tax assets related
to foreign tax credit carryforwards and state net operating loss carryforwards.
When assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider whether it
is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized.
The ultimate realization of these assets is dependent upon many factors,
including the ratio of foreign source income to overall income and generation
of sufficient future taxable income in the states for which we have loss
carryforwards. When establishing or adjusting valuation allowances, we consider
these factors, as well as anticipated trends in foreign source income and tax
planning strategies which may impact future realizability of these assets.  

Environmental
Liabilities   

We make
certain assumptions when calculating our environmental liabilities.  We base our assumptions, such as cost and
length of time for remediation, on data provided by our environmental
consultants, as well as information provided by regulatory authorities. We also
make certain assumptions regarding the indemnifications we have received from
others, including whether costs are within the scope of the indemnification,
the indemnifier s ability to perform under the agreement, and whether past
claims have been successful.  Our
environmental obligations and expenses can fluctuate significantly based on management s
assumptions.  

34  

We
believe the assumptions made by management provide a reasonable basis for the
estimates reflected in our financial statements.  

Recent
Accounting Pronouncements   

In December 2004,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) revised Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123 and issued SFAS No. 123R,
 Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123R). This accounting standard, which is
effective beginning January 1, 2006, requires the recognition of compensation
cost related to stock options using the fair value method. We will adopt SFAS No. 123R
effective January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective application
method. Based on current outstanding awards, expected participation in the
Purchase Plan consistent with past patterns, and no significant changes in the
number of shares of outstanding stock, we anticipate an impact on basic
earnings per share of approximately $0.10 - $0.12 from additional stock
compensation expense in 2006. The actual amount will be impacted by changes in
the aforementioned factors, as well as finalization of our estimated forfeiture
rates and other assumptions.  

In November 2004,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4   
(SFAS No. 151). This accounting standard, which is effective for annual
periods beginning after June 15, 2005, requires that abnormal amounts of
idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage)
should be recognized as current period charges. The adoption of SFAS No. 151
is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position or results
of operations.  

In June 2005,
the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Issue 05-05,  Accounting
for Early Retirement Programs With Specific Features (Such as Terms specified
in Altersteilzeit Early Retirement Arrangements),  which addresses the
accounting for the transitional early retirement program in Germany. Salary
components of this plan should be recognized over the period from which the
program begins until the end of the active service period. Additionally, a
portion of the salary that is deferred under certain arrangements should be
discounted if payment is expected to be deferred for a period longer than one
year. This treatment is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2005. The application of EITF 05-05 is not expected to have a material impact
on our financial position or results of operations.  

35  

Item
7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Foreign
Currency Risk   

We are
subject to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange
rates and interest rates. We mitigate some of our cash flow exposure to foreign
currency fluctuations by holding forward foreign currency contracts. These
contracts are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes. The contracts
relate primarily to intercompany transactions and are not used for trading or
speculative purposes. The fair value of the forward foreign currency exchange
contracts is sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As of December 31,
2005, a 10% negative change in foreign currency exchange rates from market
rates would decrease the fair value of the contracts by less than $0.1 million.
Gains and losses on the foreign currency exchange contracts are defined as the
difference between the contract rate at its inception date and the current
forward rate. However, we would offset any such gains and losses by corresponding
losses and gains, respectively, on the related asset or liability.  

Interest
Risk   

Our
interest rate exposure is limited primarily to interest rate changes on our
variable rate debt. The Credit Facility and term loans bear interest at rates
that fluctuate with changes in LIBOR or similar indices. For the year ended December 31,
2005, a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would have increased our
interest expense by approximately $0.2 million.  

Our
long-term debt includes $166.4 million of Senior Notes with a fixed interest
rate. Accordingly, there would be no immediate impact on our interest expense
associated with these Notes due to fluctuations in market interest rates.
However, based on a hypothetical 10% immediate decrease in market interest
rates, the fair value of our Senior Notes, which would be sensitive to such
interest rate changes, would be increased by approximately $0.2 million as of December 31,
2005.  

Item
8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

36  

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

To the Board of Directors
and Stockholders of  

  Steinway Musical
Instruments, Inc.  

  Waltham, Massachusetts  

We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on
our audits.  

We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.  

In our opinion, such
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.   

We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria established
in   Internal Control Integrated Framework  
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated March 30, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on
management s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting.  

37  

Steinway Musical
Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

     CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF INCOME   (In Thousands Except Share and Per Share
Data) 

See notes to consolidated
financial statements.  

38  

Steinway Musical
Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

     CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS   (In Thousands Except Share and Per Share Data) 

See notes to consolidated
financial statements.  

39  

Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc.
and Subsidiaries  

     CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   (In Thousands) 

See notes to consolidated
financial statements.  

40  

Steinway Musical
Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

     CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY   (In Thousands Except Share
Data) 

See notes to consolidated
financial statements.  

41  

Steinway Musical
Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

     NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

  Years Ended December 31,
2005, 2004, AND 2003  

  (Tabular Amounts in
Thousands Except Share and Per Share Data)  

1.                   Nature of Business  

Steinway
Musical Instruments, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) is one of the
world s leading manufacturers of musical instruments. The Company, through its
wholly-owned subsidiaries, The Steinway Piano Company, Inc. ( Steinway )
and  
Conn-Selmer, Inc. ( Conn-Selmer ), manufactures and distributes products
within the musical instrument industry. Steinway produces the highest quality
piano in the world and has one of the most widely recognized and prestigious
brand names. Conn-Selmer is the leading domestic manufacturer of band  
orchestral instruments and related accessories, including complete lines of
brass, woodwind, percussion and string instruments. Selmer Paris saxophones,
Bach Stradivarius trumpets, C.G. Conn French horns, Leblanc clarinets, King
trombones and Ludwig snare drums are considered by many to be the finest such
instruments in the world.  

Throughout
these financial statements  we ,  us , and  our  refer to Steinway Musical
Instruments, Inc. and subsidiaries taken as a whole.  

2.                   Significant
Accounting Policies  

Principles
of Consolidation   - Our consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of all direct and indirect subsidiaries, all of which are
wholly-owned. All intercompany balances have been eliminated in consolidation. 

Use
of Estimates   - The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates. 

Revenue
Recognition     Generally, revenue for wholesale transactions is
recognized upon shipment following receipt of a valid dealer order. Retail
revenue is generally recognized upon delivery to the customer in accordance
with the customer s purchase agreement, and restoration revenue is recognized
based on the completed contract method. We provide for the estimated costs of
warranties, discounts and returns at the time of revenue recognition. 

Inventories  
- - Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined on a first-in,
first-out basis, or market. 

42  

Depreciation
and Amortization   - Property, plant and equipment are recorded
at cost. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized
using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
improvements or the remaining term of the respective lease, whichever is
shorter. Estimated useful lives are as follows: 

Buildings and improvements  

15   40 years  

Leasehold improvements  

5   15 years  

Machinery, equipment and tooling  

3   10 years  

Office furniture and fixtures  

3   10 years  

Concert and artist and rental pianos  

15 years  

When
impairment indicators are present, we evaluate the recoverability of our
long-lived assets by comparing the estimated future undiscounted cash flows
expected to be generated by those assets to their carrying value. Should the
assessment indicate an impairment, the affected assets are written down to fair
value. Assets held-for-sale are recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable
value.  

Goodwill,
Trademarks, and Other Intangible Assets   - Intangible assets
other than goodwill and indefinite-lived trademarks are amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Deferred financing costs
are amortized over the repayment periods of the underlying debt. We test our
goodwill and indefinite-lived trademark assets for impairment annually or on an
interim basis if events or circumstances indicate that the fair value of an
asset may have decreased below its carrying value. Should an impairment be
present, the affected asset would be adjusted to its fair value. Our annual
impairment assessment is in July. We have not recognized any impairments for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003. 

Advertising  
- - Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense was $7.6
million for the year ended December 31, 2005, $7.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004, and $7.7 million for the year ended December 31,
2003. 

Accounts,
notes and other receivables, net     Accounts, notes and other
receivables are recorded net of allowances for bad debts, discounts and
returns. 

43  

A summary of the activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts is as
follows:  

Income
Taxes   - We provide for income taxes using an asset and
liability approach. We compute deferred income tax assets and liabilities
annually for differences between the financial statement and tax bases of
assets and liabilities that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the
future based on enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which
the differences are expected to affect taxable income. When necessary, we
establish valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that
more likely than not will be realized. 

Foreign
Currency Translation and Remeasurement   - We translate assets
and liabilities of non-U.S. operations into U.S. dollars at year end rates, and
revenues and expenses at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
We report the resulting translation adjustments as a separate component of
accumulated other comprehensive loss. We recognize foreign currency transaction
gains and losses in the consolidated statements of income as incurred. 

Foreign
Currency Exchange Contracts   - We enter into foreign currency
exchange contracts to mitigate the risks from foreign currency fluctuations on
certain intercompany transactions. These contracts are not designated as
hedging instruments for accounting purposes, and are not used for trading or
speculative purposes. Gains and losses arising from fluctuations in exchange
rates are recognized at the end of each reporting period. Such gains and losses
offset the foreign currency exchange gains or losses associated with the
corresponding receivable, payable, or forecasted transaction. We have credit
risk to the extent the counterparties are unable to fulfill their obligations
on the foreign currency exchange contracts. However, we enter into these
contracts with reputable financial institutions and we believe we have no
significant credit risk. 

Stock-based
Compensation   - We have an employee stock purchase plan ( Purchase
Plan ) and a stock award plan ( Stock Plan ), which are described more fully in
Note 12. As currently permitted under accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America, we have elected to continue to follow the
intrinsic value method in accounting for our stock-based employee compensation
arrangement. 

Under
the intrinsic value method, compensation associated with stock awards to
employees is determined as the difference, if any, between the fair value of
the underlying common stock on the date compensation is measured and the price
an employee must pay to exercise the award. Under the fair value method, the
impact of which is disclosed below, compensation associated with stock awards
to employees is determined based on the estimated fair value of the award
itself, measured using either current market data or an established
option-pricing model. The measurement date for employee awards for both the
intrinsic and fair value methods is generally the date of grant. Under the
intrinsic value method, we did not recognize any stock-based compensation
expense during 2005, 2004 and 2003. (See Recent Accounting Pronouncements
below.)  

44  

The following table
illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if we had applied
the fair value method to measure stock-based employee compensation.  

The
fair value of options on their grant date, including the valuation of the option
feature implicit in our Purchase Plan, was measured using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model. Key weighted-average assumptions used to apply this
pricing model are as follows:  

The weighted-average fair
value of options on their grant date is as follows:  

It
should be noted that the Black-Scholes option-pricing model was designed to
value readily tradable options with relatively short lives and no vesting
restrictions. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly
subjective assumptions including the expected price volatility. Because the
options granted are not tradable and have contractual lives of up to ten years,
changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair
value estimate calculation.  

Earnings
per Common Share   - Basic earnings per common share is
computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during
each year. Diluted earnings per common share reflects the effect of our
outstanding options (using the treasury stock method), except when such options
would be antidilutive. 

45  

A
reconciliation of the weighted-average shares used for the basic and diluted
computations is as follows:  

All outstanding options were included in the
computation of diluted earnings per common share for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004. Options to purchase 1,130,400 shares of common stock at prices
ranging from $18.55 to $22.67 per share were outstanding during the year ended December 31,
2003 but were not included in the computation of diluted net earnings per share
because the exercise prices of the options were greater than the average market
price of the common shares.  

Environmental Matters   - Potential environmental liabilities are
recorded when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and its amount can
reasonably be estimated. (See Note 13.) 

Segment Reporting   - We have two reportable segments: the
piano segment and the band   orchestral instrument segment. We
consider these two segments reportable as they are managed separately and the
operating results of each segment are separately reviewed and evaluated by our
senior management on a regular basis. The Company s chief operating decision
maker is the Chief Executive Officer. 

Comprehensive
Income   - Comprehensive income is comprised of net income,
foreign currency translation adjustments, additional minimum pension
liabilities, and unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale (AFS)
marketable securities and is reported in the consolidated statements of
stockholders  equity for all periods presented. The components of accumulated
other comprehensive loss are as follows: 

Recent
Accounting Pronouncements        In December 2004,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) revised Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123 and issued SFAS No. 123R,
 Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123R). This accounting standard, which is
effective beginning January 1, 2006, requires the recognition of
compensation cost related to stock options using the fair value method. We will
adopt SFAS No. 123R effective January 1, 2006 using the modified
prospective application method. Based on current outstanding awards, expected
participation in the Purchase Plan consistent with past patterns, and no
significant changes in the number of shares of outstanding stock, we  

46  

anticipate an impact on basic earnings per share of
approximately $0.10 - $0.12 from additional stock compensation expense in 2006.
The actual amount will be impacted by changes in the aforementioned factors, as
well as finalization of our estimated forfeiture rates and other assumptions.  

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,
 Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4  
(SFAS No. 151). This accounting standard, which is effective for
annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005, requires that abnormal
amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials
(spoilage) should be recognized as current-period charges. The adoption of SFAS
No. 151 is not expected to have a material effect on our financial
position or results of operations.  

In June 2005, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues
Task Force ( EITF ) Issue 05-05,  Accounting for Early Retirement Programs With
Specific Features (Such as Terms specified in Altersteilzeit Early Retirement
Arrangements)  which addresses the accounting for the transitional early
retirement program in Germany. Salary components of this plan should be
recognized over the period from which the program begins until the end of the
active service period. Additionally, a portion of the salary that is deferred
under certain arrangements should be discounted if payment is expected to be
deferred for a period longer than one year. This treatment is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The application of EITF 05-05
is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position or results
of operations.  

3.                   Acquisition  

On August 12, 2004, we acquired substantially all
of the assets and assumed the operating liabilities of G. Leblanc Corporation ( Leblanc )
of Wisconsin, a high-quality band instrument manufacturer. We have included the
operating results and net assets of Leblanc in our financial statements since
the date of acquisition.  

We acquired Leblanc because its line of instruments
and accessories is complementary to our existing product lines, enabling us to
gain or strengthen market share in certain instrument categories. The Company
disbursed $37.6 million for the purchase price at closing, of which $4.0
million is being held in escrow pending resolution of outstanding claims. The
final purchase price was dependent upon a calculation derived from the closing
balance sheet, which resulted in an additional payment of $1.4 million in June 2005.
The total purchase price of $38.9 million has been allocated to acquired assets  

47  

and
assumed liabilities as of August 12, 2004 as follows:  

We acquired a manufacturing
facility via this transaction that had been scheduled for closure by the
predecessor owner. We vacated this facility in early 2005 and did not incur
significant unaccrued costs as a result of this closure. This acquired facility
and a previously closed woodwind manufacturing facility in Elkhart, Indiana
were sold in the current period for combined net proceeds of $1.0 million. The
gain on the sales was less than $0.2 million and related primarily to the closed
woodwind manufacturing facility.  

4.                   Inventories  

5.                   Property, Plant and
Equipment, Net  

48  

Depreciation expense was $10.2 million in 2005, $10.1
million in 2004 and $9.8 million in 2003.  

6.                   Goodwill,
Trademarks, and Other Intangible Assets  

The changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill and
trademarks are as follows:  

49  

The weighted-average amortization period for deferred
financing costs is nine years, and the weighted-average amortization period of
covenants not to compete is five years. The
following table summarizes amortization expense, which includes amortization of
deferred financing costs:  

The following table shows
the estimated amortization expense for intangible assets for each of the five
succeeding fiscal years:  

7.                   Other Assets  

50  

Deposits include $2.4 million of amounts set aside for
potential workers  compensation liabilities; therefore the use of these funds
is restricted unless we replace the deposits with a letter of credit of a
similar amount.  

8.                   Other
Current Liabilities  

Accrued warranty expense is recorded at the time of
sale for instruments that have a warranty period ranging from one to ten years.
The accrued expense recorded is generally based on a historical warranty costs
as a percentage of sales and is adjusted periodically following an analysis of
warranty activity.  

9.                   Other    Income, Net   

51  

10.            Income Taxes  

The
components of the income tax provision are as follows:  

The
components of income before income taxes are as follows:  

Our
income tax provision differed from that using the statutory U.S. federal rate
as follows:  

(1)             Includes the impact of foreign sales in excess of the U.S. Statutory
rate of 35% as well as foreign income also subject to U.S. tax, less the foreign
tax credit allowed in the current year. 

(2)             Represents the impact of excess foreign taxes eligible to offset U.S.
taxes over the credit taken, less an associated valuation allowance of $938 in
2005 and $865 in 2004. 

(3)             Represents the impact of state net operating losses available to offset current
and future taxable income at the state level. 

52  

At December 31, 2005, accumulated retained
earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries totaled $8.3 million. We did not provide for
U.S. income taxes or foreign withholding taxes for these subsidiaries because
our current intention is to reinvest such earnings for the foreseeable future.  

The components of net
deferred taxes are as follows:  

Valuation allowances relate to excess foreign tax
credits and net operating loss carryforwards generated in excess of amounts we
more likely than not expect to utilize. 
Gross state tax net operating loss carryforwards totaled $91.7 million
as of December 31, 2005 and expire in varying amounts from 2006 through
2025.  Our foreign tax credit
carryforwards expire in varying amounts from 2009 through 2015.  

Valuation allowances decreased $0.6 million during
2005, increased $0.4 million during 2004, and decreased $5.3 million during
2003.  Valuation allowances relating to
the acquisition of Steinway totaled $2.9 million as of December 31, 2005 and
$3.3 million as of December 31, 2004. 
The difference results primarily from exchange rate fluctuations.  If these valuation allowances are removed,
the reversal reduces goodwill.  In 2004,
we removed a portion of these valuation allowances and, as a result, we reduced
goodwill by $0.8 million.  

53  

11.            Long-Term Debt  

Scheduled payments of
long-term debt as of December 31, 2005 are as follows:  

Our real estate term loan, acquisition term loan, and
domestic, seasonal borrowing requirements are accommodated through a committed
credit facility with a syndicate of domestic lenders (the  Credit Facility ).
The Credit Facility provides us with a potential borrowing capacity of $85.0
million in revolving credit, and expires on September 14, 2008. Borrowings
are collateralized by our domestic accounts receivable, inventory and fixed
assets. As of December 31, 2005, there were no revolving credit loans
outstanding, and availability based on eligible accounts receivable and
inventory balances was approximately $83.6 million, net of outstanding letters
of credit. The real estate term loan ($15.4 million at December 31, 2005) is
payable in monthly installments of $0.2 million and includes interest at
average 30-day LIBOR (2.4% at December 31, 2005) plus 1.5%. This term loan
is secured by all of our interests in the Steinway Hall property. The
acquisition term loan ($16.6 million at December 31, 2005) was repayable
in monthly installments of $0.4 million through August 2005 and monthly
installments of $0.6 million from September 2005 through September 2008.
The acquisition term loan and revolving credit loans under the Credit Facility
bear interest at average 30-day LIBOR plus 1.75%. Subsequent to December 31,
2005, the acquisition term loan was paid in full.  (See Note 19.)  

On April 19, 2001, we issued $150.0 million 8.75%
Senior Notes due 2011. In December 2002 we repurchased $4.7 million of
these notes at 99.25%. In December 2005, we repurchased $8.2 million of
our 8.75% Senior Notes at 105%. In February 2004, we purchased 1,271,450
shares of our Ordinary common stock. In exchange, we tendered $29.0 million in
principal amount of our 8.75% Senior Notes, which we issued under our current
indenture at a premium of 106.3%. 
Subsequent to December 31, 2005, we refinanced our Senior Notes.  (See Note 19.)  

54  

We
also have certain non-domestic credit facilities originating from two German
banks that provide for borrowings by foreign subsidiaries of up to  16.5
million ($19.5 million at the December 31, 2005 exchange rate), net of
borrowing restrictions of  0.9 million ($1.1 million at the December 31,
2005 exchange rate) and are payable on demand.  These borrowings are
collateralized by most of the assets of the borrowing subsidiaries.  A
portion of the loans can be converted into a maximum of  0.5 million ($0.9
million at the December 31, 2005 exchange rate) for use by our U.K. branch
and  300 million ($2.5 million at the December 31, 2005 exchange rate) for
use by our Japanese subsidiary. Our Chinese subsidiary also has the ability to
convert the equivalent of up to  1.8 million into U.S. dollars or Chinese yuan
($2.1 million at the December 31, 2005 exchange rate). Euro loans bear
interest at rates of EURIBOR plus a margin determined at the time of borrowing.
Margins fluctuate based on the loan amount and the borrower s bank rating. The
remaining demand borrowings bear interest at fixed margins at rates of LIBOR
plus 1% for British pound loans (5.53% at December 31, 2005), LIBOR plus
1% for U.S. dollar loans of our Chinese subsidiary (5.20% to 5.57% at December 31,
2005), and TIBOR plus 0.875% for Japanese yen loans (0.965% at December 31,
2005). We had $2.6 million outstanding as of December 31, 2005 on these
credit facilities.  

In January 2005,
our Japanese subsidiary entered into a separate revolving loan agreement that
provides additional borrowing capacity of up to  500 million ($4.2 million at
the December 31, 2005 exchange rate) based on eligible inventory balances.
The revolving loan agreement bears interest at an average 30-day TIBOR rate
plus 0.865% (0.955% at December 31, 2005) and expires on January 31,
2010.  As of December 31, 2005, we had $2.5 million outstanding on
this revolving loan agreement.  

All of
our debt agreements contain certain financial and non-financial covenants
which, among other things, require the maintenance of certain financial ratios
and net worth, place certain limitations on additional borrowings and capital
expenditures, prohibit the payment of cash dividends, and require periodic
report submissions to the lending institution or trustee. We were in compliance
with all such covenants as of December 31, 2005.  

12.            Stockholders 
Equity and Stock Arrangements  

Our
common stock is comprised of two classes: Class A and Ordinary. With the
exception of disparate voting power, both classes are substantially identical.
Each share of Class A common stock entitles the holder to 98 votes.
Holders of Ordinary common stock are entitled to one vote per share. Class A
common stock shall automatically convert to Ordinary common stock if, at any
time, the Class A common stock is not owned by an original Class A
holder. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer own 100% of the Class A
common shares, representing 86% of the combined voting power of the Class A
common stock and Ordinary common stock.  

Employee Stock Purchase Plan - We have an employee
stock purchase plan under which substantially all  employees may purchase
Ordinary common stock through payroll deductions at a purchase price equal to
85% of the lower of the fair market values as of the beginning or end of each
twelve-month offering period. Stock purchases under the Purchase Plan are
limited to 5% of an employee s annual base earnings. Shares issued under the
Purchase Plan were 20,663 during 2005, 33,018 during 2004, and 35,209 during
2003. Of the 500,000 shares originally reserved for issuance under the Purchase
Plan, 222,909 shares remained available for future issuance as of December 31,
2005.  

Stock Plan - The 1996 stock plan, as amended,
provides for the granting of 1,500,000 stock options  (including
incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options), stock appreciation
rights and other stock awards to certain key employees, consultants and advisors.
Our stock options generally have five year vesting terms and ten year option
terms. As of December 31, 2005, 1,041,573 shares of Ordinary common stock
were reserved for issuance under the Stock Plan.  

55  

The
following table sets forth information regarding both the Purchase Plan and the
Stock Plan:  

The
following table sets forth information regarding outstanding and exercisable
options at December 31, 2005:  

13.            Commitments
and Contingent Liabilities  

Lease Commitments   - We lease various facilities and equipment
under non-cancelable operating lease arrangements. These leases expire
at various times through 2016. Rent expense was $5.7 million for the years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and $4.8 million for the year ended December 31,
2003. 

In March 1999,
we acquired the building that includes the Steinway Hall retail store on West
57 th  Street in New York City for approximately $30.8 million. We
entered into a ninety-nine year land lease as part of the transaction. Annual
rent payable under the land lease is $2.2 million in the first ten years, $2.8
million for the subsequent ten-year period and will be adjusted every twenty
years thereafter to the greater of the existing rent or 4% of the fair market
value of the land and building combined. Rent expense is being recognized on a
straight-line basis over the initial twenty-year fixed rent period. We also
entered into a ten-year master lease whereby all of our interest in the land
and building was leased back to the owner of the land. Rental expense and
rental income associated with these leases was included, along with other real
estate costs, in Other Income, Net (see Note 9).   

56  

Future minimum lease
payments for our non-cancelable operating leases, excluding the land lease
discussed above, and future rental income under the master lease are as
follows:  

(1) In 2008, if the
master lease is not renewed or replaced we would then directly receive the
rental income from all other tenants in the building.  

Employment
Agreements and Other Obligations   - We maintain employment
agreements with certain employees and consultants. Most of these agreements
have one-year terms and contain automatic renewal provisions. Our obligation
under these agreements at current compensation levels is approximately $1.8
million per year. 

We maintain employment
agreements that expire in 2006 with both our Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer. These individuals collectively hold 100% of the Class A common
shares, representing 86% of the combined voting power of the Class A
common stock and Ordinary common stock. Our total obligation under these
agreements at December 31, 2005 is approximately $0.7 million. Should
these agreements not be renewed in 2006, we would be obligated to pay out an
additional $3.4 million. Further, our Chairman and Chief Executive officer have
established a limited liability corporation to which we pay reimbursement of
certain rent, overhead and travel-related expenses. These expenses totaled $0.2
million in each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003. We
included less than $0.1 million in accounts payable related to these expenses
at December 31, 2005 and 2004.  

Notes
Receivable Financed with Recourse   - In 2004, certain
customers of our Leblanc subsidiary financed notes receivable with a third
party, to which we have a recourse obligation. As of December 31, 2005,
$0.5 million of these notes remain outstanding. We have included a
corresponding recourse obligation of $0.1 million in our financial statements
at December 31, 2005. Our total maximum recourse obligation under this
arrangement includes the outstanding balance on the notes, as well as any
interest or late fees that may be incurred by our customers. 

We generally do not
provide extended financing arrangements to our piano dealers. To facilitate
long-term financing required by some dealers, we have arranged financing
through third-party providers. We generally provide no guarantees with respect
to these arrangements.  

Retail Financing Obligations      Certain of our retail sales overseas
were financed by our customers through a local bank under an arrangement that
included an obligation on our part to repurchase pianos seized by the bank upon
default of the customer. The buyback price is established as a percentage of
the original sales price, starting at 80% in the first year and declining to
30% in the fifth year of the loan.  

57  

This program ceased in
the first quarter of 2003. Nevertheless, because our obligation continues until
the bank is paid in full by the customer, our commitment can remain outstanding
for up to 8 years   the maximum term of the consumer loan.  

Our maximum obligation
under this arrangement is estimated to be approximately  0.6 million ($0.7
million at the December 31, 2005 exchange rate). To date, we have not been
required to repurchase any pianos under this program and we believe the
likelihood of such repurchases in the future is remote. Accordingly, we have
not recognized a liability for this obligation in our financial statements.
Further, in the unlikely event of a repurchase, we believe the proceeds
received upon our resale of the piano would exceed the amount payable to the
bank.  

With limited exceptions,
we do not provide extended financing arrangements to our dealers. To facilitate
long-term financing required by some dealers, we have arranged financing
through third-party providers. We generally provide no guarantees with respect
to these arrangements.  

Legal and Environmental Matters   - We are involved in certain legal proceedings regarding environmental
matters, which are described below. Further, in the ordinary course of
business, we are party to various legal actions that we believe are routine in
nature and incidental to the operation of our business. While the outcome of
such actions cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that, based on our
experience in dealing with these matters, their ultimate resolution will not
have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of
operations or prospects. 

Certain environmental
laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act, as amended ( CERCLA ), impose strict, retroactive, joint and
several liability upon persons responsible for releases of hazardous
substances, which liability is broadly construed. Under CERCLA and other laws,
we may have liability for investigation and cleanup costs and other damages
relating to our current or former properties, or third-party sites to which we
sent wastes for disposal. Our potential liability at any of these sites is
affected by many factors including, but not limited to, the method of
remediation, our portion of the hazardous substances at the site relative to
that of other parties, the number of responsible parties, the financial
capabilities of other parties, and contractual rights and obligations.  

In this regard, we
operate certain manufacturing facilities which were previously owned by Philips
Electronics North America Corporation ( Philips ). When we purchased these
facilities, Philips agreed to indemnify us for certain environmental matters
resulting from activities of Philips occurring prior to December 29, 1988
(the  Environmental Indemnity Agreement ). To date, Philips has fully performed
its obligations under the Environmental Indemnity Agreement, which terminates
on December 29, 2008, however, we cannot assure investors that it will
continue to do so in the future. Four matters covered by the Environmental
Indemnity Agreement are currently pending. Philips has entered into Consent
Orders with the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) for one site and the
North Carolina Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources for a
second site, whereby Philips has agreed to pay required response costs. On October 22,
1998, we were joined as defendant in an action involving a third site formerly
occupied by a business we acquired in Illinois. Philips has accepted the
defense of this action pursuant to the terms of the Environmental Indemnity
Agreement. At the fourth site, which is a third-party waste disposal site, the
EPA has named over 40 persons or entities as potentially responsible parties ( PRP ),
including four Conn-Selmer predecessor entities. The four entities have been
involved as members of PRP group in the ongoing negotiations with the site owners,
the largest contributor, and the EPA in an attempt to reach a settlement and
release PRP group members from further potential liability. We expect a
decision on the proposed settlement to be reached within the next twelve
months. For two  

58  

of these predecessor
entities, which were previously owned by Philips, this matter has been tendered
to Philips pursuant to the Environmental Indemnity Agreement. With respect to
the other two entities, based on current information concerning estimated
cleanup costs at the site, and our share of liability, we do not believe our
liability will be material.  

In
addition, we are continuing an existing environmental remediation plan at a
facility we acquired in 2000. We estimate our costs, which approximate $0.9
million, over a 15 year period. We have accrued approximately $0.7 million for
the estimated remaining cost of this remediation program, which represents the
present value total cost using a discount rate of 4.54%.   A summary of expected payments associated
with this project is as follows:  

In 2004, we acquired two manufacturing facilities
from G. Leblanc Corporation, now Grenadilla, Inc. ( Grenadilla ), for
which environmental remediation plans had already been established. In
connection with the acquisition, we assumed the existing accrued liability of
approximately $0.8 million for the cost of these remediation activities. Based
on a review of past and ongoing investigatory and remedial work by our
environmental consultants, and discussions with state regulatory officials, as
well as recent sampling, we estimate the remaining costs of such remedial plans
at $3.1 million. Pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, we have sought
indemnification from Grenadilla for anticipated costs above the original
estimate in the amount of $2.5 million. We filed a claim against the escrow and
recorded a corresponding receivable for this amount in prepaid expenses and
other current assets in the consolidated balance sheet. However, we cannot be
assured that we will be able to recover such costs from Grenadilla.  

Based on our past experience and currently available
information, the matters described above and our other liabilities and
compliance costs arising under environmental laws are not expected to have a
material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position
in an individual year. However, some risk of environmental liability is
inherent in the nature of our current and former business and we may, in the
future, incur material costs to meet current or more stringent compliance,
cleanup, or other obligations pursuant to environmental laws.  

59  

14.            Retirement
Plans  

We
have defined benefit pension plans covering the majority of our employees,
including certain employees in foreign countries. Certain domestic hourly
employees are covered by multi-employer defined benefit pension plans to which
we make contributions. These contributions totaled $1.1 million in 2005 and
2004, and $1.0 million in 2003. The corresponding pension plan assets and
liabilities belong to third parties and, accordingly, are not reflected in this
Note.  

Our
plan assets are invested primarily in common stocks and fixed income
securities. We make contributions to our domestic plan with the objective of
maintaining a fully funded status for the accumulated benefit obligation and a
90% funded status for the projected benefit obligation. At a minimum, our
contributions equal the amounts required by federal laws and regulations.
Foreign plans are funded in accordance with the requirements of the regulatory
bodies governing each plan.  

Effective
December 31, 2003, we amended the Steinway Salaried Pension Plan (the  Steinway
Plan ) to eliminate future years of service credit. All distributions upon
termination of employment will continue in the normal course under the Steinway
Plan. Since the Steinway Plan is based on years of service and is not impacted
by salary increases, no curtailment gain or loss resulted from the amendment.  

In December 2003,
we combined all of our domestic pension plans into one plan,  The Steinway
Musical Pension Plan,  to facilitate plan monitoring and plan investment
management.  

Effective
June 1, 2005 we established a master trust for this combined plan and we
will continue to evaluate this plan s funded status and make any required
minimum contributions annually.  

60  

The following table sets forth the funded status and
amounts recognized for our defined benefit pension plans:  

61  

The
weighted-average assumptions used to determine our benefit obligations are as
follows:  

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine
our net periodic benefit cost are as follows:  

The components of net pension expense for the years
ended December 31 are as follows:  

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated
benefit obligation, and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were as follows:  

The accumulated benefit obligation for our domestic
pension plans was $52.9 million in 2005 and $48.9 million in 2004. The
accumulated benefit obligation for our foreign pension plans was $28.4 million
in 2005 and $27.3 million in 2004.  

62  

The
weighted-average asset allocations of our invested assets held in our domestic
defined benefit plans were as follows:  

Domestic plan assets include 52,631 shares of the
Company s Ordinary common stock, which was valued at $1.3 million as of December 31,
2005 and $1.5 million as of December 31, 2004. This represents less than
3% of the total plan assets.  

Our investment strategy includes the following range
of target asset allocation percentages:  

Asset category:   

Minimum   

Maximum   

Domestic equity securities  

25  

%  

65  

%  

International and other equity securities  

5  

%  

30  

%  

International debt securities  

5  

%  

15  

%  

Domestic debt securities  

20  

%  

40  

%  

The objective of our investment policy is to
maximize the return on invested assets while maintaining an appropriate level
of diversification to manage risk. Our policy sets forth specific criteria used
in the selection and ongoing evaluation of individual funds.  

Our investment committee generally meets on a
quarterly basis with an outside registered investment advisor to review actual
performance against relevant benchmarks, such as the S P 500 Index.
Consistent with our policy, changes in funds are made when a fund falls outside
of our predetermined guidelines for an extended period.  

The investment committee reviews our domestic
benefit obligations no less than annually with the objective of maintaining a
fully funded status for the accumulated benefit obligation and a 90% funded
status for the projected benefit obligation. Whenever possible, our annual
contribution is expected to cover the short-term liquidity requirements of the
plan, so as to maintain the plan s assets for long-term investment. The
performance goal set for the plan s assets is to achieve a long-term rate of
return no less than 8.5%.  

For the periods ended December 31, 2005, 2004,
and 2003 we used an assumed long-term rate of return on domestic plan assets of
9%. For the period ended December 31, 2005, we used an assumed long-term
rate of return on foreign plan assets of 6.00%. We used 6.75% as the assumed
long-term rate of return for the periods ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.
These rates were developed with input from our actuaries and our investment committee
and are based on long-term rates of return for the assets  

63  

held.
This rate is consistent with both previous rates we have used and the
historical return trends on our plan assets.  

In accordance with the requirements of local
regulations, our German plans do not hold assets and pay participant benefits
as incurred. Expected 2006 benefit payments under these plans are $1.0 million.
The domestic plan invests a small portion of its assets in a group annuity
contract. We expect benefits to be covered by this contract in 2006 to be $0.2
million.  

We made contributions to our domestic pension plan
of $1.5 million in 2005 and $2.4 million in 2004. Based on federal laws and
regulations, we are not required to make a contribution to our domestic pension
plan in 2006 due to our plan s current funded status. Nevertheless, we
anticipate contributing approximately $2.0 million in 2006.  

Contributions to our U.K. plan totaled $0.3 million
in 2005 and $0.2 million in 2004. We anticipate contributing approximately $0.2
million to this plan in 2006. Due to the unfunded status of the German plans,
2006 anticipated contributions are equal to anticipated benefit payments of
$1.0 million.  

The domestic and foreign pension plans expect to pay
benefits in each year from 2006 through 2015 as follows:  

We provide postretirement health care and life
insurance benefits to eligible hourly retirees and their dependents. The health
care plan is contributory, with retiree contributions adjusted based on the
changes in the union contract, which is negotiated every three years. The plans
are unfunded and we pay part of the health care premium and the full amount of
the life insurance cost.  

64  

The following table sets forth the funded status of
our postretirement benefit plans and accrued postretirement benefit cost
reflected in our consolidated balance sheets:  

The assumed weighted-average discount rate used to
determine benefit obligations as of December 31 was 5.75% in 2005 and
6.00% in 2004. The assumed weighted-average discount rate used to determine our
net postretirement benefit cost for the years ended December 31 was 6.0%
in 2005, 6.50% in 2004, and 6.75% in 2003. The annual assumed rate of increase
in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits was 10.0% in 2005 and is
assumed to decrease gradually to 5.50% in 2015, and remain at that level
thereafter.  

Net postretirement benefit costs are as follows:  

65  

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plan. A
one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have
the following effects:  

1% Increase   

1% Decrease   

Effect on total of service and interest
  cost components  

$  

8  

$  

(7  

)  

Effect on the postretirement benefit
  obligation  

80  

(71  

)  

The domestic postretirement health care and life
insurance plan expects to pay benefits in each year from 2006 through 2015 as
follows:  

We sponsor 401(k) retirement savings plans for
eligible employees. Discretionary employer contributions, as determined
annually by the Board of Directors, are made to two of these plans and
approximated $0.6 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003. Non-discretionary contributions
approximated $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
and $0.5 million for 2003.  

We established a supplemental executive retirement
plan ( SERP ) for a select group of our executives who constitute a  top hat 
group as defined by ERISA. Discretionary employer contributions made to this
plan, as determined annually by the Board of Directors, are held in a Rabbi
Trust ( Trust ). The SERP assets are included in our financial statements as
available-for-sale investments within other long-term assets (see Notes 7 and
16). The contributions approximated $0.2 million in 2005 and 2004, and less
than $0.1 million in 2003. We anticipate making contributions of $0.2 million
in 2006.  

15.               Foreign Currency Exchange
Contracts   

One of our German divisions, whose functional
currency is the euro, secures option and forward contracts for Japanese yen,
British pounds, and U.S. dollars to mitigate cash flow exposure to currency
fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, this division had forward and option contracts
to purchase $0.2 million, sell $3.3 million, and sell  1.4 million. These
instruments had various maturity dates through January 2007. At December 31,
2004, this division had forward contracts to purchase $1.5 million and sell
 0.9 million. These instruments had various maturity dates through July 2005.
Since we do not designate these instruments as hedges for accounting purposes,
we carry these instruments at fair value and recognize the change in fair value
in earnings. Such amounts were not material during the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004, or 2003.  

66  

16.               Fair Values of Financial
Instruments   

Estimated fair values of financial instruments have
been developed using appropriate methodologies; however, considerable judgment
is required to develop these estimates. The estimated fair value of existing
long-term debt is based on rates currently available to us for debt with
similar terms and remaining maturities. The estimated fair value of foreign
currency contracts (used to mitigate cash flow exposures) has been determined
as the difference between the current forward rate and the contract rate,
multiplied by the notional amount of the contract, or upon the estimated fair
value of purchased option contracts. The estimates presented below are not
necessarily indicative of amounts that could be realized in a current market
exchange. Use of different assumptions or methodologies could have a
significant effect on these estimates.  

The
net carrying value and estimated fair value of certain financial instruments
are as follows:  

The carrying value of accounts, notes and other
receivables, marketable equity securities, and accounts payable approximate
fair value.  

Our marketable equity securities pertain to the SERP
and are included as a component of other assets (see Notes 7 and 14).
Investments in marketable equity securities are categorized as trading,
available-for-sale, or held-to-maturity. On December 31, 2005 and 2004, we
had only available-for-sale securities, which are stated at fair value, with
unrealized gains (there were no unrealized losses), net of deferred taxes,
reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss. There were no realized gains
or losses for the periods ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003. Gross
unrealized gains on these investments were as follows:  

67  

17.               Segment Information   

As discussed in Note 2, we have identified two
reportable segments: the piano segment and the band   orchestral
instrument segment. We consider these two segments reportable as they are
managed separately and the operating results of each segment are separately
reviewed and evaluated by our senior management on a regular basis.  

Intercompany transactions are generally recorded at
a discount from comparable third-party prices. Income from operations for the
reportable segments includes intercompany profit, as well as certain corporate
costs allocated to the segments based primarily on revenue. Amounts reported as
 Other   Elim  include those corporate costs that were not allocated
to the reportable segments and the remaining intercompany profit elimination.
It also includes corporate assets, elimination of intercompany interest, and
investments in subsidiaries that do not eliminate within the segments.  

The
following tables present information about our reportable segments:  

68  

18.               Summary of Bond Guarantees   

On April 19, 2001, we completed a $150.0
million 8.75% Senior Note offering. We subsequently repurchased $4.7 million of
these notes in 2002, issued $29.0 million of these notes in 2004, and
repurchased $8.2 million of these notes in December 2005. Our payment
obligations under the 8.75% Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed on a joint and several basis by Conn-Selmer, Leblanc, Steinway, and
certain other of our direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, each a  Guarantor 
(the  Guarantor Subsidiaries ). These subsidiaries represent all of our (the  Issuer )
operations conducted in the United States.  

The following condensed consolidating supplementary
data illustrates the composition of the combined Guarantors. Separate complete
financial statements of the respective Guarantors would not provide additional
material information that would be useful in assessing the financial
composition of the Guarantors. No single Guarantor has any significant legal
restrictions on the ability of investors or creditors to obtain access to its
assets in the event of default on the Guarantee other than its subordination to
senior indebtedness.  

We record investments in subsidiaries using the cost
method for purposes of the supplemental consolidating presentation. Earnings of
subsidiaries are therefore not reflected in our investment accounts and
earnings. The principal elimination entries eliminate investments in
subsidiaries and intercompany balances and transactions.  

69  

Steinway
Musical Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

  Year
Ended December 31, 2005 (In Thousands)  

70  

Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

  Year Ended December 31, 2004 (In Thousands)  

71  

Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF INCOME   

  Year Ended December 31, 2003 (In Thousands)  

72  

Steinway
Musical Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS   

  December 31,
2005 (In Thousands)  

73  

Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS   

  December 31, 2004 (In Thousands)  

74  

Steinway
Musical Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   

  Year
Ended December 31, 2005 (In Thousands)  

75  

Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS   

  Year Ended December 31, 2004 (In Thousands)  

76  

Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS   

  Year Ended December 31, 2003 (In Thousands)  

77  

19.                                       Subsequent Events   

On February 2, 2006, we repaid our acquisition
term loan, which had an outstanding balance of $16.6 million as of December 31,
2005. As a result of the write-off of associated deferred financing costs, we
recorded a loss of $1.0 million on extinguishment of this debt in the first
quarter of 2006.  

On February 23, 2006 we completed a $175.0
million offering of 7% Senior Notes at 99.2435% of face value, which resulted
in net proceeds to us of $170.2 million. We used $123.6 million of the proceeds
to redeem $114.6 million of our 8.75% Senior Notes (including accrued interest
and associated premiums) pursuant to our tender offer to repurchase these
notes. The early retirement of these notes will generate a net loss on
extinguishment of $5.4 million in the first quarter. This net loss is comprised
primarily of $5.5 million of tender and consent premiums paid to bondholders,
as the $1.2 million of loss on write-off of deferred financing costs is
essentially offset by the $1.3 million of gain recorded due to our write-off of
the bond premium associated with the pre-existing 8.75% Senior Notes.  

We shall use the remainder of the proceeds from
issuance of the 7% Senior Notes, supplemented by cash on hand, to pay outstanding
debt issuance costs, such as legal fees, and to redeem the remaining $51.6
million of 8.75% Senior Notes, which we have called at 104.375% plus accrued
interest. The early retirement of these remaining notes, which will occur in April 2006,
will generate a loss on extinguishment of $3.3 million. This loss is comprised
of $2.3 million of call premiums paid to bondholders and $1.0 million due to
the write-off of the remaining deferred financing costs associated with the
8.75% Senior Notes.  

78  

20. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)   

The net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2005 were impacted by the
following items which varied from our results in the first three quarters.
First, we recorded a charge to cost of sales of $0.9 million based on the
results of our annual physical inventories conducted at our domestic piano and
band facilities. In addition, responding to changes in our band division s
product line we updated our estimates for certain older product categories and
increased our lower of cost or market reserve by $0.7 million. Lastly, the
fourth quarter results produced a higher than expected foreign tax credit
utilization. This resulted in a reduction in our effective tax rate from the
40% estimate in prior quarters to 37.3% for the full fiscal year.  

The
following is a summary of unaudited results of operations, in thousands except
share and per share data.  

79  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

Not
applicable.  

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures   

Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

Our principal executive officer and our principal
financial officer, after evaluating together with management, the effectiveness
of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of December 31,
2005, the end of the period covered by this report, have concluded that, as of
such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were adequate and effective
to ensure that material information relating to our Company and our
consolidated subsidiaries would be made known to them by others within those
entities.  

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

There were changes in our Company s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2005 which
resulted from control improvement and remediation efforts. These changes have
not materially affected, and are not likely to materially affect, our Company s
internal control over financial reporting.  

MANAGEMENT S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORTING   

The
management of Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the
 Company ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a - 15(f) and
15d - 15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under
the supervision of, the Company s principal executive and principal financial
officers, and effected by the Company s board of directors, management and
other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of the Company s financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies
and procedures that:  

(1)                                   pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the Company; 

(2)                                   provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(3)                                   provide reasonable assurance that receipts
and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and 

(4)                                   provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

80  

Internal
Control over financial reporting includes the controls themselves, monitoring
and internal auditing practices and actions taken to correct deficiencies as
identified.  

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

The
Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In making this
assessment, the Company s management used the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework  . Management reviewed
the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of its Board of
Directors.  

Based
on its assessment, management determined that, as of December 31, 2005,
the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective.  

Deloitte  
Touche LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the
financial statements included in this annual report, has issued an attestation
report on management s assessment of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting.  

By:  

/s/  

Dana D. Messina  

Dana D. Messina  

Chief Executive Officer  

March 30, 2006  

By:  

/s/  

Dennis M. Hanson  

Dennis M. Hanson  

Chief Financial Officer  

March 30, 2006  

81  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of  

  Steinway
Musical Instruments, Inc.  

  Waltham,
Massachusetts  

We
have audited management s assessment, included in the accompanying Management s
Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Steinway
Musical Instruments, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2005 based on criteria established in   Internal
Control Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management s assessment, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinions.  

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by,
or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by
the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness
of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject
to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.  

In
our opinion, management s assessment that the Company maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is
fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in   Internal Control Integrated Framework  
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2005, based on  

82  

the
criteria established in   Internal Control Integrated
Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.  

We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial
statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 of the Company
and our report dated March 30, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on
those financial statements.  

83  

Item 9B. Other Information   

None.  

PART III   

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant   

The information called for by this item is hereby
incorporated by reference to the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, which Proxy Statement will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after
the end of the fiscal year covered by this report.  

Item 11. Executive Compensation   

The information called for by this item is hereby
incorporated by reference to the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, which Proxy Statement will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after
the end of the fiscal year covered by this report.  

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management   

The information called for by this item is hereby
incorporated by reference to the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, which Proxy Statement will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after
the end of the fiscal year covered by this report.  

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions   

The information called for by this item is hereby
incorporated by reference to the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, which Proxy Statement will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after
the end of the fiscal year covered by this report.  

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

The information called for by this item is hereby
incorporated by reference to the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, which Proxy Statement will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after
the end of the fiscal year covered by this report.  

84  

PART IV   

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a)                                     The following documents are filed as a part
of this report: 

Exhibit 
  No.   

Description   

2.1  

Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of July 20, 2000, by and among
  Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and BIM Holding AG with respect to
  all the capital stock of United Musical Instruments Holdings, Inc. (8)  

3.1  

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant (6)  

3.2  

Bylaws of Registrant (4)  

3.3  

Amendment No. 1 to Bylaws of Registrant (4)  

4.1  

Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 14,
  2000, among The Selmer Company, Inc., Steinway, Inc., and United
  Musical Instruments USA, Inc., as borrowers; certain wholly owned
  subsidiaries of the borrowers (as may be amended from time to time), as
  guarantors; the several lenders from time to time parties thereto; and GMAC
  Commercial Credit LLC, as Administrative Agent (9)  

4.2  

First Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement,
  dated as of March 2, 2001, to the Existing Credit Agreement, by and
  among The Selmer Company, Inc., Steinway, Inc., United Musical
  Instruments USA, Inc., as borrowers; certain wholly owned subsidiaries
  of the borrowers (as may be amended from time to time), as guarantors; the
  several lenders from time to time parties thereto; and GMAC Commercial Credit
  LLC, as Administrative Agent (13)  

4.3  

Second Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
  dated as of April 19, 2001 among The Selmer Company, Inc., Steinway, Inc.
  and United Musical Instruments USA, Inc., as borrowers: certain wholly
  owned subsidiaries of the borrowers (as may be amended from time to time), as
  guarantors; the several lenders from time to time parties thereto; and GMAC
  Commercial Credit LLC, as Administrative Agent (10)  

85  

4.4  

Third Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
  dated as of August 31, 2001 among The Selmer Company, Inc.,
  Steinway, Inc. and United Musical Instruments USA, Inc., as
  borrowers; certain wholly owned subsidiaries of the borrowers (as may be
  amended from time to time), as guarantors; the several lenders from time to
  time parties thereto; and GMAC Commercial Credit LLC, as Administrative Agent
  (11)  

4.5  

Fourth Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
  dated as of July 17, 2002 by and among The Selmer Company, Inc.,
  Steinway, Inc., United Musical Instruments USA, Inc., as borrowers;
  certain wholly owned subsidiaries of the borrowers (as may be amended from
  time to time), as guarantors; the lenders from time to time party to the
  Agreement; and GMAC Commercial Credit, LLC, as Administrative Agent (14)  

4.6  

Fifth Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
  dated as of January 14, 2003 by and among Conn-Selmer, Inc. f/k/a
  The Selmer Company, Inc. and the surviving corporation of the merger of
  United Musical Instruments USA, Inc. with and into Conn-Selmer, Inc.,
  Steinway, Inc., as borrowers; certain wholly owned subsidiaries of the
  borrowers (as may be amended from time to time), as guarantors; the lenders,
  from time to time party to the Agreement; and GMAC Commercial Credit LLC, as
  Administrative Agent (14)  

4.7  

Sixth Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
  dated as of January 31, 2004 by and among Conn-Selmer, Inc. f/k/a
  The Selmer Company, Inc. and the surviving corporation of the merger of
  United Musical Instruments USA, Inc. and United Musical Instruments
  Holdings, Inc. with and into Conn-Selmer, Inc., Steinway, Inc.,
  as borrowers; those signatories identified as guarantors, the lenders, and
  GMAC Commercial Credit LLC, as administrative agent (16)  

4.8  

Seventh Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
  dated as of May 26, 2004 by and among Conn-Selmer, Inc. f/k/a The
  Selmer Company, Inc. and the surviving corporation of the merger of
  United Musical Instruments USA, Inc. and United Musical Instrument
  Holdings with and into Conn-Selmer, Inc., Steinway, Inc., as
  borrowers; those signatories identified as guarantors, the lenders, and GMAC
  Commercial Credit LLC, as administrative agent. (18)  

4.9  

Eighth Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
  dated as of August 11, 2004 by and among Conn-Selmer, Inc. f/k/a
  The Selmer Company, Inc. and the surviving corporation of the merger of
  United Musical Instruments USA, Inc. and United Musical Instruments
  Holdings, Inc. with and into Conn-Selmer, Inc., Steinway, Inc.,
  as borrowers; those signatories identified as guarantors, the lenders, and
  GMAC Commercial Credit LLC, as administrative agent.  

4.10  

Ninth Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
  dated as of February 8, 2006 by and among Conn-Selmer, Inc. f/k/a The Selmer
  Company, Inc. and the surviving corporation of the merger of United Musical
  Instruments USA, Inc. and United Musical Instruments Holdings, Inc. with and
  into Conn-Selmer, Inc., Steinway, Inc., as borrowers; those signatories
  identified as guarantors, the lenders, and GMAC Commercial Finance LLC
  (successor by merger to GMAC Commercial Credit LLC), as administrative agent.  

4.11  

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 9, 1993, among
  Selmer Industries, Inc. and the purchasers of certain equity securities
  (1)  

4.12  

Indenture, dated as of April 19, 2001, among Steinway Musical
  Instruments, Inc., the subsidiary guarantors named therein and UBS
  Warburg, LLC, as the initial purchaser (12)  

4.13  

Indenture, dated as of February 23, 2006, among Steinway Musical
  Instruments, Inc., as Issuer, the subsidiary guarantors; and the Bank of New
  York Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (22)  

4.14  

Exchange Registration Rights agreement, dated as of May 25,
  1995, by and among The Selmer Company, Inc., Selmer Industries, Inc.,
  Steinway Musical Properties, Inc., Steinway, Inc., Boston Piano
  Company, Inc. and Donaldson, Lufkin   Jenrette Corporation (2)  

10.1  

Employment Agreement, dated May 8, 1989, between Steinway
  Musical Properties, Inc. and Thomas Kurrer (3)  

10.2  

Employment Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1995, between Steinway
  Musical Properties, Inc. and Bruce Stevens (3)  

86  

10.3  

Employment Agreement Renewal and Amendment dated January 1, 1997
  by and between Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and Bruce Stevens (6)  

10.4  

Employment Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1995, between Steinway
  Musical Properties, Inc. and Dennis Hanson (3)  

10.5  

Employment Agreement Renewal and Amendment dated January 1, 1997
  by and between Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and Dennis Hanson (6)  

10.6  

Employment Agreement, dated as of January 4, 1999, between the
  Registrant and Dana Messina (7)  

10.7  

Employment Agreement, dated as of January 4, 1999, between the
  Registrant and Kyle Kirkland (7)  

10.8  

Environmental Indemnification and Non-Competition Agreement, dated as
  of August 9, 1993, between The Selmer Company, Inc. and Philips
  Electronics North American Corporation (1)  

10.9  

Distribution Agreement, dated November 1, 1952, by and between
  H.   A. Selmer, Inc. and Henri Selmer   Cie (1)  

10.10  

Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Plan of the Registrant (14)  

10.11  

Form of Non-compete Agreement dated July 1996 between
  Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. and each of Thomas Burzycki, Bruce
  Stevens, Dennis Hanson and Michael Vickrey (5)  

10.12  

Employment Agreement dated November 11, 2002 between Conn-Selmer, Inc.
  and John M. Stoner, Jr. (14)  

10.13  

Working Agreement between Conn-Selmer, Inc. and United
  Automobile, Aerospace and Agriculture Implement Workers of America, Local No. 612
  (15)  

10.14  

Working Agreement between Vincent Bach Division of Conn-Selmer, Inc.
  and United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of
  America Local No. 634 (15)  

10.15  

Agreement between Conn-Selmer, Inc. and U.A.W. Local 2359 (20)  

10.16  

Agreement between Steinway, Inc. d/b/a Steinway   Sons
  and Local 102 F.W. AFL-CIO (16)  

10.17  

Labor Contract Agreement between Musser Division and Carpenter Local
  1027 Mill-Cabinet-Industrial Division affiliate of Chicago Regional Council
  of Carpenters of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Jointers of America
  (21)  

10.18  

Labor Contract Agreement between Frank Holton Company and Local No. M94
  of the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Iron Shipbuilders,
  Blacksmiths, Forgers, and Helpers (21)  

10.19  

Asset Purchase Agreement (the  Asset Purchase Agreement ) dated July 22,2004
  by and between G. Leblanc Corporation, and Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc.
  (16)  

10.20  

The Deferred Compensation Incentive Plan for Steinway Musical
  Instruments, Inc. effective January 1, 2001 (23)  

10.21  

Summary Description of Compensation for Non-Employee Directors (24)  

14.0  

Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct (19)  

21.1  

List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant  

23.1  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm- Deloitte  
  Touche LLP  

31.1  

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302
  of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

31.2  

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302
  of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

32.1  

Certification of the Principal Executive Officer pursuant to 18
  U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
  Act of 2002  

32.2  

Certification of the Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18
  U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

___________________  

(1)  

Previously filed with the Commission on February 8, 1994 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1.  

(2)  

Previously filed with the Commission on June 7, 1995 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Current Report on  
  Form 8-K.  

87  

(3)  

Previously filed with the Commission on June 7, 1995 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-4.  

(4)  

Previously filed with the Commission on May 14, 1996 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1.  

(5)  

Previously filed with the Commission on July 25, 1996 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on
  Form S-1.  

(6)  

Previously filed with the Commission on March 27, 1997 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Annual Report on  
  Form 10-K.  

(7)  

Previously filed with the Commission on August 16, 1999 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  

(8)  

Previously filed with the Commission on July 27, 2000 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Current Report on  
  Form 8-K.  

(9)  

Previously filed with the Commission on September 29, 2000 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K.  

(10)  

Previously filed with the Commission on August 14, 2001 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  

(11)  

Previously filed with the Commission on November 13, 2001 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  

(12)  

Previously filed with the Commission on June 12, 2001 as an exhibit
  to the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-4.  

(13)  

Previously filed with the Commission on March 28, 2001 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Annual Report on  
  Form 10-K.  

(14)  

Previously filed with the Commission on March 18, 2003 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Annual Report on  
  Form 10-K.  

(15)  

Previously filed with the Commission on August 12, 2003 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  

(16)  

Previously filed with the Commission on March 16, 2004 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Annual Report on  
  Form 10-K.  

(17)  

Previously filed with the Commission on July 27, 2004 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Current Report on  
  Form 8-K.  

(18)  

Previously filed with the Commission on August 5, 2004 as an exhibit to
  the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  

(19)  

Previously filed with the Commission on March 31, 2005 as an exhibit
  to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

(20)  

Previously filed with the Commission on May 10, 2005 as an exhibit to
  the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  

(21)  

Previously filed with the Commission on November 9, 2005 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  

(22)  

Previously filed with the Commission on February 27, 2006 as an
  exhibit to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K.  

(23)  

Previously filed with the Commission on March 28, 2002 as an exhibit to
  the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

(24)  

Previously filed with the Commission on May 20, 2005 in the
  Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K.  

88  

Signatures   

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc.  

By:  

/s/ Dana D. Messina  

March 30, 2006  

Dana D. Messina  

(Date)  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities listen below on March 16, 2006:  

Signature   

Title   

/s/ Dana D. Messina  

Director and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)  

Dana D. Messina  

/s/ Dennis M. Hanson  

Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  

Dennis M. Hanson  

/s/ Kyle R. Kirkland  

Chairman of the Board  

Kyle R. Kirkland  

/s/ John M. Stoner, Jr.  

Director  

John M. Stoner, Jr.  

/s/ Bruce A. Stevens  

Director  

Bruce A. Stevens  

/s/ Peter McMillan  

Director  

Peter McMillan  

/s/ A. Clinton Allen  

Director  

A. Clinton Allen  

/s/ Rudolph K. Kluiber  

Director  

Rudolph K. Kluiber  

89  

<EX-4.10>
 2
 a06-2179_1ex4d10.htm
 INSTRUMENTS DEFINING THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS, INCLUDING INDENTURES

Exhibit 4.10   

NINTH
AMENDMENT AND CONSENT TO SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT   

This NINTH
AMENDMENT AND CONSENT TO SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as
of February 8, 2006 (this  Amendment ), to the Existing Credit Agreement (as
hereinafter defined), by and among (i) CONN-SELMER, INC., f/k/a THE SELMER
COMPANY, INC., a Delaware corporation, and the surviving corporation of
the merger of United Musical Instruments USA, Inc. and United Instruments
Holdings, Inc. with and into Conn-Selmer, Inc. ( Conn-Selmer ), (ii) STEINWAY,
INC., a Delaware corporation ( Steinway  and together with Conn-Selmer, the  Borrowers ),
(iii) those signatories hereto and identified on Schedule I (as may be amended
from time to time) as Guarantors (the  Guarantors ), (iv) the lenders (the  Lenders )
from time to time party to the Existing Credit Agreement (defined below) and
(v) GMAC COMMERCIAL FINANCE LLC (successor by merger to GMAC Commercial Credit,
LLC), a Delaware limited liability company, as administrative agent for the
Lenders hereunder (in such capacity, the  Administrative Agent ).  

RECITALS  

A.            The Borrowers, the Guarantors, the
Administrative Agent and the Lenders have entered into the Existing Credit
Agreement, pursuant to which the Lenders are providing to the Borrowers an
$85,000,000 revolving credit facility and a $22,500,000 term loan facility,
each of which is secured by certain accounts receivable, real estate, and other
collateral of Conn-Selmer and Steinway and guaranteed by the Guarantors.  

B.            Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. ( SMI )
has requested that the Lenders consent: (i) to SMI s issuance of $175,000,000 7.0%
Senior Notes due 2014 (the  New Senior Notes ) which will be guaranteed by the
Borrowers and the Guarantors and (ii) to SMI s use of the proceeds of the
issuance of the New Senior Notes to repurchase or redeem all of SMI s
outstanding 8 % Senior Notes due 2011 (the  Old Notes ) and to pay all
outstanding accrued interest thereon and any premiums, penalties, fees and
expenses incurred in connection therewith (the issuance of the New Senior Notes
and the use of proceeds described in (i) and (ii) above are referred to herein
as the  Transaction ).  

C.            The Lenders have agreed to consent
to the Transaction subject to the conditions described herein and the parties
hereto desire to amend certain provisions of the Existing Credit Agreement as
hereinafter provided to effectuate the same.  

D.            In consideration of the foregoing
and of the mutual covenants and undertakings herein contained, the parties
hereto hereby agree that the Existing Credit Agreement is amended as
hereinafter provided.  

ARTICLE I 
Definitions  

1.              Definitions . (a)  In addition to the definitions set forth in
the heading and the recitals to this Amendment, the following definitions shall
apply hereto:  

Existing
Credit Agreement  : the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated
as of  

September 14, 2000, among (i) Selmer, (ii)
Steinway, (iii) the Guarantors, (iv) the Lenders and (v) the Administrative
Agent as amended or otherwise modified from time to time prior to the effective
date of this Ninth Amendment.  

New Senior
Notes  : those certain Senior Notes issued by SMI in the aggregate principal
face amount not to exceed $175,000,000 pursuant to the New Senior Notes
Indenture.  

New Senior
Notes Holders  : the holders of the New Senior Notes.  

New Senior
Notes Indenture  : that certain Indenture relating to the New Senior Notes
to be entered into among the New Steinway Senior Notes Parties and the New
Senior Notes Trustee.  

New
Senior Notes Trustee  : The Bank of New York, as trustee for the New Senior
Notes Holders pursuant to the New Senior Notes Indenture and any successors or
assigns of such trustee.  

New
Steinway Senior Notes Parties  : SMI, Conn-Selmer, The Steinway Piano
Company, Inc., Steinway, Inc., S B Retail, Inc., Boston Piano Company and
The O.S. Kelly Company.  

(b)           Unless otherwise indicated,
capitalized terms that are used but not defined herein shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in the Existing Credit Agreement.  

ARTICLE II  

  Representations  

1.              Representations . Each of the
Borrowers and Guarantors hereby represents and warrants as follows:  

(a)           It has full power, authority and
legal right to enter into this Amendment and perform all of its respective
obligations hereunder. The execution, delivery and performance hereof is within
its powers and has been duly authorized, is not in contravention of any law(s)
which might have a material adverse effect upon it, the Collateral, its
operations, financial condition or prospects, or in contravention of the terms
of its by-laws, certificate of incorporation, declaration of trust or other
documents relating to its formation, as applicable, or to the conduct of its
business or of any material agreement or undertaking to which it is a party or
by which it is bound, and will not conflict with or result in any breach of any
of the provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation
of any Lien upon any of its assets under, the provisions of any agreement,
charter, instrument, by-law, declaration of trust or other instrument to which
it is a party or by which it or its assets may be bound.  

(b)           It is duly organized and in good
standing under the laws of its respective state of organization and it is
qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which
qualification and good standing are necessary for it to conduct its businesses
and own its properties and where the failure to so qualify would have a
Material Adverse Effect.  

(c)           This Amendment has been duly executed
and delivered on its behalf and this Amendment constitutes its legal, valid and
binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except
as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of
creditors  rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether
enforcement is sought by proceedings in equity or at law).  

(d)           The conditions contained in Article V
hereof have been satisfied.  

(e)           Each of the Loan Documents is on the
date hereof in full force and effect.  

(f)            No Default or Event of Default has
occurred and is continuing.  

(g)           It has not granted and will not grant
any Lien on any of its property or assets to the New Senior Notes Trustee or
any New Senior Notes Holder.  

ARTICLE III  

  Amendments to Existing Credit Agreement  

1.              Amendments to Section 1 . Section
1.1 of the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the following
definitions in their entirety and replacing them with the following:  

Senior Notes :
those certain Senior Notes issued by SMI from time to time in the aggregate
principal face amount not to exceed $175,000,000 pursuant to the Senior Notes
Indenture, and any guarantees of the Senior Notes and any refinancing of the
same with senior notes or subordinated notes that are issued by SMI, and any
subsequent refinancings thereof that comply with the terms hereof, provided
that (i) such refinancing is on similar and customary terms and conditions that
are no less favorable in any material respect to the Loan Parties or the
Lenders than the terms governing the Senior Notes and (ii) the amount of such
refinancing is in a principal amount not to exceed (1) the principal amount of
indebtedness so refinanced plus (2) unpaid accrued interest on such
indebtedness being refinanced plus (3) premiums, penalties, fees and expenses
actually incurred by SMI or the Guarantors in connection with the repayment and
refinancing thereof.  

Senior Notes
Indenture : that certain Indenture, dated as of April 19, 2001, among the
Steinway Senior Notes Parties and the Senior Notes Trustee, as amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, including any Indenture
executed in connection with a refinancing of the Senior Notes issued
thereunder.  

2.              Amendment to Section 6.17 . Section
6.17 of the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting in the
eleventh line thereof after the words  immediately set forth above,  the words  refinancings
permitted under Section 9.2(e) and Section 9.2(f) of this Agreement or
otherwise permitted pursuant the definition of Senior Notes, .  

3.              Amendment to Section 9.4(a) .
Section 9.4(a) of the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting
in the second line thereof after the words  Senior Subordinated Notes  the
words  and Senior Notes, .  

3.              Amendment to Section 9.20 . Section
9.20 of the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting in the
fourth line thereof after the words  or other Basic Documents  the words  ,
except in accordance with the refinancing of Senior Subordinated Notes or the
Senior Notes in accordance with Section 9.2(e) or Section 9.2(f), respectively,
or otherwise in accordance with the definition of Senior Notes .  

4.              Amendment to Section 9.21(a) .
Section 9.21(a) of the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting
in the third line thereof after the words  activity incident thereto  the words
 , (ii) incurring and refinancing Indebtedness permitted pursuant to the terms
hereof,  and replacing the words  and (ii)  with the words  and (iii) .  

5.              Amendment to Section 9.21(b) .
Section 9.21(b) of the Existing Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting
in the second line thereof after the words  activity incident thereto  the
words  , (ii) incurring and refinancing Indebtedness permitted pursuant to the
terms hereof,  and replacing the words  and (ii)  with the words  and (iii) .  

ARTICLE IV  

  Consent and Agreement  

1.             The Administrative Agent and the
Lenders hereby  consent to the execution
and delivery of the New Senior Notes Indenture (including the guarantees set
forth therein), the issuance of the New Senior Notes and the use of the
proceeds thereof to repurchase or redeem the Old Notes (including the payment
of any unpaid accrued interest thereon plus any premiums, penalties, fees and
expenses actually incurred by SMI or the Guarantors in connection with such
redemption) (notwithstanding any Lien that the Administrative Agent and the Lenders
may have in such proceeds).  

ARTICLE V  

  Conditions to Effectiveness  

This
Amendment, and the modifications to the Existing Credit Agreement provided for
herein, shall become effective on the date (the  Ninth Amendment Effective Date )
on which all of the following conditions have been (or are concurrently being)
satisfied:  

1.             This Amendment shall have been duly
executed and delivered by each party thereto.  

2.             No Default or Event of Default
shall have occurred and be continuing.  

3.             All corporate and other
proceedings, and all documents, instruments and other legal matters in
connection with the transactions contemplated by the Existing Credit Agreement
and this Amendment shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to
the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall have received such
other documents in respect of any aspect or consequence of the transactions
contemplated hereby or thereby as it shall reasonably request.  

ARTICLE VI  

  Miscellaneous  

1.              No Other Amendments; Confirmation .
Except as expressly amended, modified and supplemented hereby and by the
documents related hereto, the provisions of the Existing Credit Agreement and
the other Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect.  

2.              Affirmation by Loan Parties .
Each Loan Party hereby reaffirms its obligations under the Loan Documents
executed by such Loan Party.  

3.              Governing Law; Counterparts .
(a)  This Amendment and the rights and
obligations of the parties hereto shall be governed by, and construed and
interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.  

(b)           This Amendment may be executed by one
or more of the parties hereto on any number of separate counterparts, and all
of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the
same instrument. A set of the copies of this Amendment signed by all the
parties shall be lodged with each of the Borrowers and the Administrative
Agent, as the Administrative Agent. This Amendment may be delivered by
facsimile transmission of the relevant signature pages hereof.  

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and
delivered as of the day and year first above written.  

CONN-SELMER,
  INC  ., 

Borrower  

By:   

/s/ Dennis
  M. Hanson  

Title:
  Senior Executive Vice President  

STEINWAY,
  INC  ., 

Borrower  

By:   

/s/ Dennis
  M. Hanson  

Title:
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

GMAC
  COMMERCIAL FINANCE LLC   

(successor
  by merger to GMAC Commercial Credit, LLC),  

as Administrative
  Agent  

By:   

/s/ Harvey
  Winter  

Title:
  Senior Vice President  

GMAC
  COMMERCIAL FINANCE LLC   

(successor
  by merger to GMAC Commercial Credit, LLC),  

as Lender  

By:   

/s/ Harvey
  Winter  

Title:
  Senior Vice President  

FLEET
  CAPITAL CORPORATION  , 

as Lender  

By:  

/s/
  Christopher M. O Halloran  

Title:
  Vice President  

THE BANK
  OF NEW YORK  , 

as Lender  

By:   

/s/ John M.
  Foley, Jr.  

Title:
  Vice President  

BANKNORTH,
  N.A.  , 

as
  Lender  

By:  

N/A  

Title:  

LASALLE
  BUSINESS CREDIT, LLC  , 

as
  Lender  

By:  

/s/ Daniel
  K. Clancy  

Title:
  First Vice President  

ISRAEL
  DISCOUNT BANK OF NEW YORK  , 

as
  Lender  

By:  

N/A  

Title:  

SCHEDULE I  

GUARANTORS  

Steinway
Musical Instruments, Inc.  , 

  Guarantor  

By:   

/s/
  Dennis M. Hanson  

Title:
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

800 South
  Street  

Suite 425  

Waltham, MA
  02453  

The
  Steinway Piano Company, Inc  ., 

Guarantor  

By:   

/s/
  Dennis M. Hanson  

Title:
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

600
  Industrial Parkway  

Elkhart, IN
  46516  

S B
  Retail, Inc  ., 

Guarantor  

By:   

/s/
  Dennis M. Hanson  

Title:
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

455 Route 17
  South  

Paramus, New
  Jersey 07652  

Boston
  Piano Company, Inc  ., 

Guarantor  

By:  

/s/
  Dennis M. Hanson  

Title:
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

37-11 19 th 
  Avenue  

Long Island
  City, NY 11105  

The O.S.
  Kelly Corporation  , 

Guarantor  

By:  

/s/
  Dennis M. Hanson  

Title:
  Senior Executive Vice President  

P.O. Box
  1267  

318 E. North
  Spring Street  

Springfield,
  OH 45503  

</EX-4.10>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 a06-2179_1ex21d1.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit 21.1   

STEINWAY
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   

   SUBSIDIARIES
OF THE REGISTRANT   

Steinway Musical
  Instruments, Inc., a Delaware corporation  

Steinway
  Asia, LLC, a Delaware limited liability corporation  

Conn-Selmer,
  Inc., a Delaware corporation  

Noblet,
  LLC, a Wisconsin limited liability corporation  

Normandie,
  LLC, a Wisconsin limited liability corporation  

G. Leblanc SNC, a
  partnership organized under the laws of France  

Vincent
  Bach International, a corporation organized under the laws of the United
  Kingdom  

The
  Steinway Piano Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation  

Steinway   Sons, a
  Delaware corporation  

Steinway Piano
  (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of China  

Steinway, Inc., a New
  York corporation  

The
  O.S. Kelly Company, an Ohio corporation  

Boston
  Piano Company, a Massachusetts corporation  

Boston
  Piano GmbH, a corporation organized under the laws of Germany  

Kluge
  Klaviaturen GmbH, a corporation organized under the laws of Germany  

Kluge
  Klawiatury, Sp.z.o.o. Wilkow, Poland, a limited liability company organized
  under the laws of Poland  

Steinway
  Haus Munchen GmbH, a corporation organized under the laws of Germany  

S
    B Retail, Inc., a Delaware corporation  

Steinway
    Sons Japan, Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of Japan  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 a06-2179_1ex23d1.htm
 CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

Exhibit 23.1   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We consent to the
incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-11465 on Form S-8
of our reports dated March 30, 2006, relating to the financial statements of
Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc., and management s report on the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. for the year
ended December 31, 2005.  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 a06-2179_1ex31d1.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.1   

I, Dana D. Messina, certify that:  

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form
10-K of Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc.;  

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does
not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;  

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;  

4. The registrant s other certifying officer
and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

a) designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared;  

b) designed such internal control over
financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting
to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles;  

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report, based on such
evaluation; and  

d) disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and  

5. The registrant s other certifying officer
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control
over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee
of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

a) all significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 30, 2006  

/s/ Dana D. Messina  

Dana
  D. Messina  

Director,
  President and Chief  

Executive
  Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 a06-2179_1ex31d2.htm
 302 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 31.2   

I, Dennis M. Hanson, certify that:  

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form
10-K of Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc.;  

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does
not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;  

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;  

4. The registrant s other certifying officer
and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

a) designed such disclosure controls and
procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared;  

b) designed such internal control over
financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting
to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles;  

c) evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report, based on such
evaluation; and  

d) disclosed in this report any change in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and  

5. The registrant s other certifying officer
and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control
over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee
of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):  

a) all significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s
ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: March 30, 2006  

/s/ Dennis M. Hanson  

Dennis
  M. Hanson  

Senior
  Executive Vice President and  

Chief
  Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 a06-2179_1ex32d1.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.1   

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO   

   18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS
REQUIRED BY   

   SECTION
906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. (the  Company ) for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), I, Dana D. Messina, Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, certify that to the best of my knowledge:  

1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of
section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

2. The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.  

/s/ Dana D. Messina  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

March 30, 2006  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 a06-2179_1ex32d2.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

EXHIBIT 32.2   

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   

   18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350   

   AS
REQUIRED BY   

   SECTION
906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Steinway Musical Instruments, Inc. (the  Company ) for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), I, Dennis M. Hanson, Senior Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify that to the best of my
knowledge:  

1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of
section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  

2. The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.  

/s/ Dennis M. Hanson  

Senior Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

March 30, 2006  

</EX-32.2>

