<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_887247_0001144204-06-012628_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3877865</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>679528</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2583686</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>65</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001144204-06-012628.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331063834
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001144204-06-012628
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CELLEGY PHARMACEUTICALS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000887247
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				820429727
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-26372
		FILM NUMBER:		06725171

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1800 BYBERRY ROAD, BLDG. #13
		CITY:			HUNTINGDON VALLEY
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19006
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2159140900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1800 BYBERRY ROAD, BLDG. #13
		CITY:			HUNTINGDON VALLEY
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19006

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WZXf65Uf4I3mzqPWrHCf91X5rTtlOxd/xnRD+msXjmXeamwbDl9nbo3GDGlFXqU9
 Nk5LHSOMgmCDo6qQMILS8A==

 0001144204-06-012628.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 v038451_10k.htm

UNITED
      STATES  

       SECURITIES
      AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

       Washington,
      D.C. 20549  

FORM 10-K  

(Mark
      one)  

       x       Annual
      Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
      of 1934  

For
      the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005  

OR  

o       Transition
      Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
      of 1934  

Commission
      File Number 000-26372  

CELLEGY
      PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.  

      (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s
      telephone number, including area code:    (215)
      914-0900  

      Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

None  

None  

(Title
                of each class) 

(Name
                of each exchange on which
                registered) 

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

       Common
      Stock, $0.0001 par value  

      (Title
      of
      class) 

      Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
      in
      Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 

YES         

NO      x  

Indicate
      by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
      Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. 

YES      o  

NO      x  

Note   
      -
      Checking the box above will not relieve any registrant required to file reports
      pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act from their obligations
      under
      those sections. 

      Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
      be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
      during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
      Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
      such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 

YES      x  

NO      o  

Indicate
      by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
      Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
      of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
      amendment to this Form 10-K.    o  

      Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
      accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated
      filer and large accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
      (Check one): 

Large
                accelerated filer    o  

Accelerated
                filer        o  

Non-accelerated
                filer        x  

Indicate
      by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
      12b-2 of the Act). 

YES      o  

NO      x  

The
      aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
      Registrant as of June 30, 2005 was $43,547,000.  

      As
      of
      March 24, 2006, there were 29,831,625 shares of common stock
      outstanding. 

Documents
      Incorporated By Reference:  

The
      information called for by Part III of this Report, and certain information
      called for by Part II, Item 5 of this Report, to the extent not set forth
      herein, is incorporated by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement relating
      to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company which will be filed with
      the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after the end
      of
      the fiscal year to which this Report relates. 

This
      Annual Report includes forward-looking statements that involve substantial
      risks
      and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts,
      but are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our
      industry, our beliefs and our assumptions. Words such as  believes, 
 anticipates,   expects,   intends  and similar expressions are intended to
      identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of
      identifying such statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees
      of future performance and concern matters that could subsequently differ
      materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Actual events
      or results may also differ materially from those discussed in this Annual
      Report. These risks and uncertainties include those described in
     Risk
      Factors  and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Except as required by law, we
      undertake no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements in order to
      reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this Annual
      Report.  

CELLEGY
      PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 10-K ANNUAL REPORT   

FOR
      THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 200    5  

TABLE
      OF CONTENTS   

Page  

Part I  

Item
                1. 

BUSINESS 

4 

Item
                1A. 

RISK
                FACTORS 

15 

Item
                1B. 

UNRESOLVED
                STAFF COMMENTS 

25 

Item
                2. 

PROPERTIES 

25 

Item
                3. 

LEGAL
                PROCEEDINGS 

25 

Item
                4. 

SUBMISSION
                OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

27 

Part II  

Item
                5. 

MARKET
                FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER
                PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

28 

Item
                6. 

SELECTED
                FINANCIAL DATA 

29 

Item
                7. 

MANAGEMENT S
                DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
                OPERATIONS 

29 

Item
                7A. 

QUANTITATIVE
                AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

38 

Item
                8. 

FINANCIAL
                STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

38 

Item
                9. 

CHANGES
                IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
                DISCLOSURE 

39 

Item
                9A. 

CONTROLS
                AND PROCEDURES 

39 

Item
                9B. 

OTHER
                INFORMATION 

39 

Part III  

Item
                10. 

DIRECTORS
                AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

40 

Item
                11. 

EXECUTIVE
                COMPENSATION 

40 

Item
                12. 

SECURITY
                OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
                STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

40 

Item
                13. 

CERTAIN
                RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

41 

Item
                14. 

PRINCIPAL
                ACCOUNTANT, FEES AND SERVICES 

41 

Part IV  

Item
                15. 

EXHIBITS
                AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

42 

Unless
      the context otherwise requires, the terms  we ,  our ,  the Company , and
 Cellegy  refer to Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation,
      and its subsidiaries. Savvy , Cellegesic , Fortigel , Tostrelle , Tostrex , and
      Rectogesic  are our trademarks. We also refer to trademarks of other
      corporations and organizations in this document. 

3 

PART I   

ITEM
      1:      BUSINESS   

Cellegy
      Pharmaceuticals is a development stage specialty biopharmaceutical company
      primarily engaged in the development and commercialization of prescription
      drugs
      targeting women s health care, including the reduction in transmission of HIV,
      and gastrointestinal conditions using proprietary topical formulations and
      nitric oxide ( NO ) donor technologies. In October 2004, Cellegy completed
      the acquisition of Biosyn, Inc., a privately held Pennsylvania based
      biopharmaceutical company, with a late-stage product candidate,
      Savvy       
      (C31G
      vaginal gel), a contraceptive microbicide gel designed to reduce HIV/AIDS
      transmission in women.  

Cellegy
      is developing Cellegesic  (nitroglycerin ointment) for the treatment of anal
      fissures and hemorrhoids. In January 2004, the results of preliminary
      analysis of our third Phase 3 clinical trial for Cellegesic showed a reduction
      in anal fissure pain, compared with a placebo control, during the first three
      weeks of the trial, the primary efficacy endpoint of the study. The company
      submitted a New Drug Application ( NDA ) to the   U.S.
      Food
      and Drug Administration ( FDA  or the  Agency )   in
      June 2004. The FDA issued a Not Approvable letter for Cellegesic in
      December 2004.  

Cellegy
      submitted an amended NDA containing new analyses of data from its trials to
      the
      FDA in April 2005 and the submission has been under review at the FDA since
      then.  In January 2006, the FDA indicated that the Company s submission
      will be reviewed April 25, 2006 by the Cardiovascular and Renal Drug Products
      Advisory Committee (the  Committee ), an independent panel of external experts.
      The Committee s recommendation for approval or non-approval of Cellegesic is
      expected to be rendered at the conclusion of its review. While the FDA will
      consider the findings of the Committee, the final regulatory decision rests
      with
      the Agency. The FDA has not indicated when its final decision will be
      communicated. Cellegesic cannot be marketed in the United States unless and
      until the FDA grants marketing approval for the product.  

The
      U.K.
      Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency ( MHRA ) approved Cellegesic
      (branded Rectogesic in Europe) for sale in the United Kingdom in
      August 2004 and the product was launched by our European marketing partner,
      ProStrakan Group Limited ( ProStrakan ), in May 2005. ProStrakan is seeking
      additional approvals of Rectogesic by other member states of the European Union
      through the Mutual Recognition Procedure. The Mutual Recognition Procedure
      has
      been successfully completed, although additional national licenses will be
      sought and are expected to be issued in the 19 additional countries included
      in
      the submission. 

Cellegy
      is developing two transdermal gel testosterone products, Fortigel  (testosterone
      gel) and Tostrelle       
      (testosterone gel). Fortigel, a replacement therapy for male hypogonadism,
      was
      the subject of a Not Approvable letter by the FDA in July 2003.
      Tostrex       
      (testosterone gel), which is the brand name for Fortigel in Europe, was approved
      by the Medical Products Agency in Sweden ( MPA ) for the treatment of male
      hypogonadism in December 2004 and was launched by ProStrakan in September,
      2005. ProStrakan is currently seeking additional approvals of Tostrex by other
      member states of the European Union through the Mutual Recognition
      Procedure. 

Tostrelle
      is for the treatment of female sexual dysfunction in postmenopausal women and
      has completed Phase 2 development. In 2004, the FDA indicated that specific
      guidelines regarding the long-term safety of testosterone for the treatment
      of
      female sexual dysfunction are under internal discussion by the Division of
      Reproductive and Urologic Drug Products. The company is awaiting these
      guidelines before embarking upon a Phase 3 program. 

Biosyn
      is
      developing a portfolio of proprietary products known as microbicides. Biosyn s
      product candidates, which include both contraceptive and non-contraceptive
      microbicides, are used intravaginally to reduce transmission of sexually
      transmitted diseases ( STD s ) including HIV/AIDS. Biosyn s products include
      Savvy, which is currently undergoing Phase 3 clinical trials in Africa and
      in
      the United States; UC-781 vaginal gel, in Phase 1 trials; and Cyanovirin-N,
      in
      pre-clinical development. 

Products
      Under Development   

Cellegesic
      (nitroglycerin ointment for treatment of anal fissures and
      dyspareunia)  

Cellegesic
      is a topical, nitroglycerin-based prescription product being developed for
      the
      treatment of anal fissures and dyspareunia. Nitroglycerin is a drug that has
      safely and effectively been used for many years to treat cardiac conditions,
      primarily angina pectoris. 

4 

Anal
      fissures are painful tears in the lining of the anal canal. The condition is
      associated with increased pressure in the anal canal and a decrease in blood
      supply to the region. Many chronic cases require a surgical procedure (Lateral
      Internal Sphincterotomy) that is designed to reduce anal pressure by severing
      the inner anal sphincter muscle. This procedure, while highly effective,
      frequently leaves up to 35% of patients incontinent. 

There
      are
      currently no FDA approved drug therapies for anal fissures, although topical
      anesthetics and anti-inflammatory agents, which only partially and temporarily
      relieve the symptoms of the condition, are currently prescribed. According
      to
      2004 Verispan audits, anal fissures afflict an estimated 765,000 Americans,
      resulting in over one million physician visits each year. These data for 2004
      show about 84,000 annual uses of pharmacy-compounded nitroglycerin for the
      treatment of anal fissures. 

Dyspareunia
      is a condition that is characterized by intense vaginal pain. The condition
      can
      be recurrent and frequently causes significant impairment to normal sexual
      functioning in women. Several publications have reported that between 7% to
      15%
      of American women of sexually active age are affected by the condition. There
      are no approved treatments for dyspareunia and while many different approaches
      are used, none are completely satisfactory. In a non placebo controlled clinical
      study of nitroglycerin ointment conducted by Dr. Jennifer Berman of the
      University of California Los Angeles Medical Center, the product was reported
      to
      reduce the pain of women suffering from vulvodynia, a condition that is a major
      contributor to dyspareunia. The Company may conduct additional clinical trials
      using Cellegesic for the treatment of vulvodynia. 

Previous
      Cellegesic Clinical Trial Results.    We
      completed our initial Phase 3 clinical trial using Cellegesic for the treatment
      of anal fissures and announced the results in November 1999. The trial,
      which included 304 patients, did not demonstrate a statistically significant
      rate of healing compared with placebo, but did show significant pain reduction.
      Based on this outcome, we initiated a second Phase 3 trial in 2000 to test
      the
      drug s ability to reduce fissure pain, the primary trial endpoint, with healing
      of chronic anal fissures as a secondary endpoint. The second Phase 3 clinical
      trial, which included 229 patients, was completed in September 2001.
      Positive results were achieved in the primary endpoint, which was accelerating
      the rate of pain reduction associated with chronic anal fissures. Statistical
      significance was not achieved in healing. 

In
      June 2001, we filed a rolling NDA with the FDA for the use of Cellegesic
      for the treatment of pain associated with chronic anal fissures based on partial
      results of the second Phase 3 trial. We amended the NDA in November 2001
      upon completion of the second Phase 3 study. In April 2002, we announced
      the withdrawal of our Cellegesic NDA after it became clear that the FDA was
      not
      going to approve the NDA. After several subsequent discussions and meetings
      with
      the FDA, the FDA indicated that it would require another Phase 3 trial before
      considering approval of the product. 

In
      January 2004, Cellegy announced results of its third Cellegesic Phase 3
      clinical trial showing a statistically significant (p 0.05) reduction in anal
      fissure pain compared with a placebo control during the first three weeks of
      the
      trial, the primary efficacy endpoint of the study. As observed in two earlier
      Phase 3 trials, the most common side effect was mild to moderate headache.
      The
      double blind, placebo controlled trial was conducted according to a Special
      Protocol Assessment ( SPA ) that was agreed to by Cellegy and the FDA. Based on
      these trial results we filed an NDA with the FDA in July 2004. 

Side
      effects seen in the trial were consistent with those observed in the previous
      two Phase 3 studies, with mild to moderate headache the most common side effect.
      Five subjects dropped out of the study as a result of headache. The SPA required
      that subjects discontinuing due to nitroglycerin related headache, defined
      as
      one that occurs within 30 minutes of application, should have their last daily
      pain intensity score, as recorded on the day the subject dropped out, carried
      forward each day through day 21. Clinical judgment, based on each subject s
      entire record, was used to determine which of the five subjects discontinued
      due
      to nitroglycerin related headaches. Last daily pain intensity scores were
      carried forward for three of the five subjects. The other two subjects who
      withdrew from the trial due to headache had all of their available pain data
      prior to dropout included in the analysis. The FDA, after conducting its own
      analysis and raising other issues not covered in the SPA, issued a Not
      Approvable letter in December 2004.  

The
      Company submitted an amended NDA containing new analyses of data from its trials
      to the FDA in April 2005, and the submission has been under review at the FDA
      since then.  In January 2006, the FDA indicated that the company s
      submission will be reviewed on April 25, 2006 by the Cardiovascular and Renal
      Drug Products Advisory Committee. The Committee s recommendation for approval or
      non-approval of Cellegesic is expected to be rendered at the conclusion of
      its
      review. While the FDA will consider the findings of the Committee, the final
      regulatory decision rests with the Agency. The FDA has not indicated when its
      final decision will be communicated. Cellegesic cannot be marketed in the United
      States unless and until the FDA grants marketing approval for the product.

5 

Savvy
      (contraceptive vaginal gel for women, designed to prevent
      HIV/AIDS)  

Cellegy
      obtained rights to the late-stage product candidate, Savvy, with its
      October 2004 acquisition of Biosyn. Savvy, a microbicidal gel, is one of
      the most clinically advanced product candidates in development for the reduction
      in transmission of HIV and has also shown promising results in the prevention
      of
      other STDs, including those caused by herpes simplex virus and Chlamydia. Savvy
      has also shown activity against gonorrhea and syphilis. 

Savvy
      is
      currently undergoing a Phase 3 trial for reduction of HIV transmission in
      Nigeria in populations of women at risk for HIV infection. The primary endpoint
      of the study is a 50% reduction in the rate of transmission of HIV in the Savvy
      group compared with the placebo. The current enrollment for the Nigerian trial
      is approximately 2,000 women.  

In
      November 2005, the company discontinued its Phase 3 trial for reduction of
      HIV
      transmission in Ghana which had enrolled approximately 2,100 women. The
  Data
      Monitoring Committee reviewing interim data from the Savvy Ghana Phase 3 HIV
      prevention trial made the recommendation in November 2005 that continuing the
      trial would not allow the effect of Savvy (C31G vaginal gel) on HIV to be
      determined because of a lower than expected rate of HIV seroconversion in the
      trial. The estimated annual rate of HIV seroconversion in the Ghana study
      population was 3.7% at the time of trial initiation, but the observed annual
      rate was 1.2% eighteen months into the trial. This lower rate was possibly
      due
      in part to procedures designed to ensure ethical trial design, including
      counseling on HIV prevention and distribution of condoms. There were no safety
      issues associated with the Ghana trial. 

Consideration
      is being given to expansion of the ongoing Savvy Phase 3 HIV prevention trial
      in
      Nigeria and/or the opening of new trial sites in areas with higher HIV incidence
      as ways to determine the effectiveness of Savvy.   Additionally,
      data from the Ghana trial will be analyzed for effects on other endpoints
      including pregnancy. If the data warrant, the Ghana results will be submitted
      as
      a supplemental data package for the contraception New Drug Application.

A
      Phase 3
      trial for contraception is ongoing in the United States, with about 686 women
      enrolled out of an expected total enrollment of 1,600 by the end of
      2007. 

The
      active compound in Savvy is C31G, a broad-spectrum compound with antiviral,
      antibacterial and antifungal activity. Its mechanism of action is via immediate
      membrane disruption, and it is also spermicidal. Because of its mechanism of
      action, C31G has a low potential for resistance and is active against drug
      resistant pathogens. 

Certain
      Phase 3 trial expenses for Savvy, and certain other clinical and preclinical
      development costs for the Biosyn pipeline, are funded by grant and contract
      commitments through agencies including: the United States Agency for
      International Development; the National Institute for Child Health and
      Development; the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Disease; CONRAD
      (formerly the   Contraceptive
      Research and Development Program  );
      and
      other governmental and philanthropic organizations.    

Fortigel
      (testosterone replacement therapy for male hypogonadism)  

Fortigel
      is a transdermal gel testosterone product designed to treat male hypogonadism,
      a
      condition involving deficient levels of the sex hormone testosterone. Low levels
      of testosterone can result in lethargy, depression and a decline in libido.
      In
      severely deficient cases, loss of muscle mass and bone density can occur.
      Approximately five million men in the United States, primarily in the aging
      (over 40) male population group, have deficient levels of
      testosterone. 

Fortigel
      is a transparent, rapid-drying and non-staining gel, designed as a once-a-day
      application from a unique metered dose dispenser to relatively small areas
      of
      the skin. Based on the results of a 201-patient Phase 3 trial announced in
      November 2001, Cellegy filed an NDA in June of 2002. However, Fortigel
      was subsequently the subject of a Not Approvable letter by the FDA in
      July 2003. In its letter, the FDA stated that in its opinion the following
      deficiencies in the Fortigel NDA were found: (1) there is insufficient
      information to establish that high supraphysiologic daily Cmax serum
      testosterone levels achieved in a significant portion of participants in the
      major clinical study supporting the NDA are safe under conditions of chronic
      administration; and (2) there is insufficient information provided to
      demonstrate that the dose of the product can be adjusted to consistently
      preclude achieving these high supraphysiological testosterone levels. The
      company has no current plans to develop the product further and is seeking
      to
      either sell or out-license the technology.  

6 

Tostrex       
      (testosterone gel), which is the brand name for Fortigel in Europe, was approved
      in December 2004 by the Medical Products Agency in Sweden for the treatment
      of male hypogonadism and was launched by ProStrakan in September 2005.
      ProStrakan is currently seeking additional approvals of Tostrex by other member
      states of the European Union through the Mutual Recognition
      Procedure. 

Tostrelle
      (testosterone gel for female hormone replacement therapy)  

Normal
      blood concentrations of testosterone in women range from 10 to 20 times less
      than those of men. Nevertheless, in both sexes, testosterone plays a key role
      in
      building muscle tissue or bone and in maintaining normal sexual desire. In
      women, the ovaries and adrenal glands continue to synthesize testosterone after
      menopause, although the rate of production may diminish by as much as 50%.
      Testosterone deficiency in women frequently leads to diminished libido,
      decreased bone and muscle mass and reduced energy levels. Approximately 15
      million women in the United States suffer from symptoms of testosterone
      deficiency. At the present time, there are no approved products for the
      treatment of this condition, although it has been reported that testosterone
      treatment is frequently being prescribed off-label for women by obstetricians
      and gynecologists. 

Based
      on
      the results of pharmacokinetic studies in men receiving Fortigel, scientists
      calculated the concentration of testosterone required to achieve normal
      pre-menopausal hormone levels in postmenopausal women. The result is Cellegy s
      Tostrelle, a product designed to safely restore normal testosterone levels
      in
      hormone deficient women. 

Cellegy
      has successfully completed two Phase 1/2 pharmacokinetic studies in which the
      proper dosage was determined to restore normal testosterone levels to naturally
      menopausal and surgically induced menopausal women. In September 2004, we
      announced results of a second interim analysis of a Phase 2 study using
      Tostrelle for the treatment of female sexual dysfunction, which showed a 65%
      increase in sexual activity in women with hypoactive sexual desire disorder
      (HSDD), a 30% increase over placebo. Based on these results, the Company stopped
      enrollment in the Phase 2 clinical study. Later in 2004, the Company met with
      the FDA to review the trial results and the overall Tostrelle program. The
      FDA
      informed Cellegy that specific guidelines regarding the long-term safety of
      testosterone for the treatment of female sexual dysfunction are under internal
      discussion by the Division of Reproductive and Urologic Drug Products. Cellegy
      is awaiting these guidelines before embarking upon a Phase 3 program. If the
      new
      FDA guidelines prove to be too onerous, limiting or too costly to implement,
      the
      Phase 3 program may be significantly delayed or Cellegy may decide not to pursue
      the further development of Tostrelle. 

Marketed
      Products   

Rectogesic
      (nitroglycerin ointment for the treatment of anal fissures)  

Rectogesic       (nitroglycerin
      ointment), the brand name for Cellegesic outside of the United States, was
      approved by the MHRA for sale in the United Kingdom in September 2004 and
      was launched by ProStrakan in May 2005. Approvals by other member states of
      the
      European Union are being sought by ProStrakan through the Mutual Recognition
      Procedure.  

In
      November 2005, Cellegy renegotiated its marketing agreement with ProStrakan.
      Under the terms of the amended agreement, ProStrakan will assume responsibility
      for all manufacturing and other product support functions and will purchase
      the
      product directly from the manufacturer rather than from Cellegy. In connection
      with its revised marketing agreement, Cellegy received a payment of $2 million
      and may receive certain future milestone payments of up to $750,000 upon
      approval of the product in certain major European countries. 

7 

Rectogesic
      was approved by the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration, has been
      successfully marketed in Australia since 1999, and is now also marketed in
      New
      Zealand, Singapore and South Korea. Rectogesic is the only approved product
      for
      the treatment of anal fissures.  

On
      March
      24, 2006 Cellegy announced that its European marketing partner ProStrakan had
      successfully completed the European Union Mutual Recognition Procedure for
      Rectogesic. Following the successful conclusion of the MRP process, national
      licenses will be sought and are expected to be issued in due course in the
      19
      additional countries included in the MRP submission application. Cellegy is
      entitled to receive $250,000 for each marketing regulatory approval obtained
      in
      the first of any three countries out of France, Italy, Germany or Spain up
      to a
      maximum total amount payable of $750,000. PDI is entitled to receive one-half
      of
      these payments under its previous agreements with Cellegy.  

Tostrex
      (testosterone gel)  

Tostrex
      was approved in December 2004 by the MPA for the treatment of male
      hypogonadism and was launched by ProStrakan in September 2005. ProStrakan is
      currently seeking additional approvals of Tostrex by other member states of
      the
      European Union through the Mutual Recognition Procedure. 

Marketing
      and Commercialization Strategy   

Cellegy
      intends to become a leader in the development and commercialization of selected
      specialty biopharmaceutical products that are directed towards the treatment
      of
      HIV prevention and contraception, female sexual dysfunction and gastrointestinal
      disorders. Key elements of our business and commercialization strategy include
      the following: 

Self-Marketing
                to Specialty Physicians in the United States.    If
                economically viable, we plan to self-market our products to a targeted
                audience of key physician specialists, including Gastroenterologists
                and
                Obstetrician-Gynecologists, through the establishment of our own
                sales
                force. 

Outside
                the United States.    In
                most cases, we plan to out-license the overseas rights for the products
                we
                develop. During 2004 in two separate transactions, we out-licensed
                commercial rights to our Tostrex and Rectogesic products in Europe
                to
                ProStrakan Group Limited, a specialty pharmaceutical company located
                in
                the United Kingdom with European-wide marketing
                capability. 

Manufacturing.    Cellegy
                has manufacturing arrangements with PendoPharm Inc., an FDA approved
                contract-manufacturing company based in Canada. PendoPharm, an affiliate
                of Pharmasciences, has successfully manufactured Cellegesic, Fortigel
                and
                Tostrelle for past clinical trials and Rectogesic and Tostrex for
                European
                commercial sales. PendoPharm will be the commercial manufacturer
                of these
                products in the event of any future regulatory approvals in other
                markets.
                In 2005, the Company modified its relationship with PendoPharm concerning
                the manufacture of Rectogesic, giving control to ProStrakan. Similar
                control was given to ProStrakan in 2006 regarding the manufacture
                of
                Tostrex. We are planning to validate a domestic contract manufacturer
                to
                serve as a second manufacturing source for our product candidates.
                Our
                products sold in Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and South Korea
                are
                currently supplied by a pharmaceutical     manufacturer
                in Australia. 

Distribution.    Cellegy
                has entered into distribution agreements for Rectogesic in New Zealand,
                Singapore and South Korea. Cellegy has also entered into distribution
                agreements for Tostrex in Israel, Australia, South Korea, South Africa
                and
                approximately 10 other Far East
                markets. 

Research
      Programs   

Cellegy s
      research and development programs focus on developing products in the area
      of
      women s health, prevention of HIV transmission, sexual function, anorectal and
      peripheral vascular disorders. The acquisition of Biosyn in 2004 expanded our
      pipeline into the area of women s health. Most of our current research programs
      are now being conducted at Biosyn, in Huntingdon Valley,
      Pennsylvania. 

Biosyn   . Biosyn s
      topical microbicide technology expands our product pipeline in women s health
      care. In 2004, Biosyn s lead product, Savvy, entered three concurrent Phase 3
      clinical studies; a contraception study in the United States and two HIV studies
      Africa. In Africa, studies were being conducted in Nigeria and in Ghana testing
      Savvy s effectiveness in preventing HIV transmission in women. In November 2005,
      the company discontinued its Ghana trial due to   a
      lower
      than expected rate of HIV seroconversion in the trial. The estimated annual
      rate
      of HIV seroconversion in the Ghana study population was 3.7% at the time of
      trial initiation, but the observed annual rate was 1.2% eighteen months into
      the
      trial. This lower rate was possibly due in part to procedures designed to ensure
      ethical trial design, including counseling on HIV prevention and distribution
      of
      condoms. There were no safety issues associated with the Ghana
      trial. 

8 

If
      the
      Phase 3 trial for contraception in the United States is successful, Savvy could
      be the first product among many microbicide products in various stages of
      development to enter the commercial marketplace. There can be no assurances
      that
      Savvy will be successfully commercialized or, if commercialized, that it would
      be the first, or one of the first, such products to enter the marketplace.

A
      second-generation product, UC-781, is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase
      (RT) inhibitor that has demonstrated efficacy against a wide range of HIV-1
      isolates, including laboratory adapted strains, T cell and macrophage tropic
      isolates, and primary isolates of all major clades (A through G and isolates
      that are resistant to other RT inhibitors). Phase 1 human safety studies of
      UC-781 are currently under way. Biosyn s expanded microbicides portfolio also
      includes a naturally occurring protein, Cyanovirin-N, ( CV-N ) that may be
      effective in blocking viral fusion    in
      vitro   .
      CV-N
      has demonstrated    in
      vivo   
      efficacy
      in vaginal and rectal prevention of HIV infection in animal models. 

Nitric
      Oxide Donor Technology   . Expanded
      expertise in nitric oxide pharmacology has led to an understanding of the role
      of nitric oxide as a signaling molecule, operating at lower concentrations
      than
      is normally required for vasodilators, especially in tissue under an abnormally
      vaso-spasmatic or vaso-constrictive state. This discovery presents various
      potential approaches to treat conditions caused by vaso-constriction, such
      as
      peripheral vascular insufficiency found in Raynaud s disease and selected
      aspects of female sexual dysfunction. 

Patents
      and Trade Secrets   

Our
      policy is to protect our technology by, among other things, filing patent
      applications for technology that we consider important to our business. We
      intend to file additional patent applications, when appropriate, relating to
      our
      technology, improvements to our technology and to specific products that we
      develop. It is impossible to anticipate the breadth or degree of protection
      that
      any such patents will afford, or whether we can meaningfully protect our rights
      to our unpatented trade secrets. Cellegy also relies upon unpatented trade
      secrets and know-how, and no assurance can be given that competitors will not
      independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and
      techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such
      technology. It is our policy to require our employees to execute an invention
      assignment and confidentiality agreement upon employment. Our consultants are
      required to execute a confidentiality agreement upon the commencement of their
      consultancy. Each agreement provides that all confidential information developed
      or made known to the employee or consultant during the course of employment
      or
      consultancy will be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except
      in specific circumstances. The invention assignment generally provides that
      all
      inventions conceived by the employee shall be the exclusive property of Cellegy.
      In addition, it is our policy to require collaborators and potential
      collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. There can be no
      assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection
      of
      our trade secrets. Currently, Cellegy holds a number of issued and pending
      US
      and foreign patents pertaining to our principal products.   

Cellegesic
      and Rectogesic ointment.    Two
      issued U.S. patents and over 20 issued foreign patents relate to our topical
      nitroglycerin products, Cellegesic and Rectogesic ointments, for the treatment
      of anal disorders. While the European patent was challenged and subsequently
      revoked during opposition proceedings in December 2003, Cellegy has filed an
      appeal to the decision, and the case stands on appeal. 

Testosterone
      gel products for males and females   .
      Three
      issued U.S. patents, five issued foreign patents and over 5 pending patent
      applications relate to our topical testosterone products Fortigel, Tostrex
      and
      Tostrelle gels. 

Savvy
      Contraceptive gel.    Two
      issued U.S. patents and over 20 issued foreign patents relate to Savvy gel
      for
      contraception and the reduction in transmission of HIV infection. 

In
      addition, Cellegy also holds issued and pending patents pertaining to our
      potential back-up products for treatment of anal disorders as well as for our
      earlier pipeline products for the treatment of female sexual disorders,
      urogenital disorders, and vascular insufficiency.  

9 

Acquisitions    
      and Divestitures  

In
      October 2004, Cellegy acquired Biosyn, Inc., a privately held
      biopharmaceutical company. Under the terms of the agreement, Cellegy issued
      approximately 2,462,000 shares of Cellegy s common stock for all of Biosyn s
      issued and outstanding capital stock. In addition, outstanding Biosyn stock
      options and warrants were assumed by Cellegy and converted into options and
      warrants to purchase approximately 318,504 shares of Cellegy common stock.
      The
      options issued to acquire Cellegy common stock are fully vested and exercisable.
      The exercise prices of the options and warrants were adjusted by the exchange
      ratio in the transaction; the expiration date and other terms of the converted
      options and warrants remain the same. The purchase price does not include any
      provisions for contingent milestone payments of up to $15 million which would
      be
      payable to Biosyn shareholders on the achievement of C31G marketing approval
      in
      the United States and a portion of which would be payable earlier upon
      commercial launch in certain major overseas markets. 

In
      November 2001, Cellegy acquired Vaxis Therapeutics Corporation, a private
      Canadian company subsequently renamed Cellegy Canada. Its operations were
      discontinued in the fourth quarter of 2005 and the company s assets liquidated
      by December 31, 2005. All cancer prevention related patents and in-process
      technology were returned by action of agreement to Parteq Innovations, from
      whom
      Cellegy originally acquired the patents. 

In
      June 2000, Cellegy acquired Quay Pharmaceuticals (subsequently renamed
      Cellegy Australia), an Australian company marketing Rectogesic, for the
      treatment of anal fissures. Cellegy continues to self-market Rectogesic through
      Cellegy Australia.  

In
      December 2005, the Company divested its skin care business. 

License
      Agreements   

Cellegy  

In
      December 2002, Cellegy entered into a license agreement (the  PDI
      Agreement ), with PDI, Inc. ( PDI ) granting PDI the exclusive right to
      store, promote, sell and distribute Fortigel in North American markets. Cellegy
      received an upfront payment of $15.0 million on the effective date of
      December 31, 2002 with an additional $10.0 million payable no later than
      thirty days after Cellegy certifies to PDI that Fortigel has received all FDA
      approvals required to manufacture, sell and distribute the product in the United
      States. Cellegy recorded costs of $947,000 to selling, general and
      administrative expenses associated with an investment banking fee for the year
      ended December 31, 2002 related to the PDI Agreement. Under the PDI
      Agreement, Cellegy would also receive royalties each year until the expiration
      of the last patent right related to Fortigel of 20% - 30% of net sales and
      Cellegy would be reimbursed for 110% of burdened costs for any product supplied
      to PDI. In October 2003, Cellegy received a mediation notice from PDI. In
      December 2003, Cellegy and PDI initiated legal proceedings against each
      other.  

On
      April
      11, 2005, Cellegy entered into a settlement agreement with PDI resolving the
      lawsuits that the companies had filed against each other.  Under the terms
      of the settlement agreement, the license agreement was terminated and all
      product rights have reverted to Cellegy.  Cellegy paid $2.0 million to PDI
      upon signing the settlement agreement.  Cellegy also issued a $3.0 million
      promissory note to PDI and a $3.5 million non-negotiable senior convertible
      debenture. The settlement of the Company s lawsuit with PDI resulted in the
      recognition of the remaining $6.5 million in deferred revenue from PDI as
      license revenue during the second quarter of 2005. 

In
      July 2004, Cellegy and ProStrakan entered into to an exclusive license
      agreement for the future commercialization of Tostrex       
      (testosterone gel) in Europe. Under the terms of the agreement, ProStrakan
      will
      be responsible for regulatory filings, sales, marketing and distribution of
      Tostrex throughout the European Union and in certain nearby non-EU countries.
      Cellegy will be responsible for supplying finished product to ProStrakan through
      Cellegy s contract manufacturer.  

In
      December 2004, Cellegy and ProStrakan entered into an exclusive license
      agreement for the commercialization of Rectogesic in Europe. Under the terms
      of
      the original agreement, Cellegy received a non-refundable upfront payment of
      $1.0 million and is entitled to receive additional milestone payments, along
      with additional payments based on net sales of Rectogesic in Europe. ProStrakan
      will be responsible for additional regulatory filings, sales, marketing and
      distribution of Rectogesic throughout Europe. The agreement covers 38 European
      territories, including all EU member states. Under the original agreement,
      Cellegy was responsible for supplying finished product to ProStrakan through
      its
      contract manufacturer. 

10 

In
      November 2005, the company renegotiated its marketing agreement with ProStrakan
      relating to Rectogesic. Under the terms of the amended agreement, ProStrakan
      will assume responsibility for all manufacturing and other product support
      functions and will purchase the product directly from the manufacturer rather
      than from Cellegy. In connection with its revised marketing agreement, Cellegy
      received a payment of $2.0 million and may receive certain future milestone
      payments of up to $750,000 upon approval of the product in certain major
      European countries. 

In
      January 2006, Cellegy amended its 2004 agreement with ProStrakan concerning
      Tostrex. Under the terms of the amended agreement, ProStrakan will assume
      responsibility for all manufacturing and other product support functions and
      will purchase Tostrex directly from Cellegy s contract manufacturer rather than
      purchasing the product from Cellegy under the terms of the original agreement.
      Cellegy will continue to receive milestones and royalties as set forth in the
      original agreement. 

Biosyn  

In
      October 1996, Biosyn acquired the C31G Technology from the entity that
      originally licensed the technology to Biosyn. As part of the agreement, Biosyn
      is required to make annual royalty payments equal to the sum of 1% of net
      product sales of up to $100 million, 0.5% of the net product sales over $100
      million and 1% of any royalty payments received by Biosyn under license
      agreement. The term of the agreement lasts until December 31, 2011 or upon
      the expiration of the C31G Technology s patent protection, whichever is later.
      Biosyn s current C31G patents expire between 2011 and 2018. 

11 

In
      May 2001, Biosyn entered into an exclusive license agreement with Crompton
      Corporation under which Biosyn obtained the rights to develop and commercialize
      UC-781, a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, as a topical
      microbicide. Under the terms of the agreement, Biosyn paid Crompton a
      nonrefundable, upfront license fee that was expensed in research and
      development. Crompton also received a warrant to purchase Biosyn common stock,
      which converted into a Cellegy warrant in connection with the acquisition and
      is
      exercisable for a period of two years upon initiation of Phase 3 trials of
      UC-781. Crompton is entitled to milestone payments upon the achievement of
      certain development milestones and royalties on product sales. If UC-781 is
      successfully developed as a microbicide, then Biosyn has exclusive worldwide
      commercialization rights. 

In
      February 2003, Biosyn acquired exclusive worldwide rights from the National
      Institutes of Health, or NIH, for the development and commercialization of
      Cyanovirin-N as a vaginal gel to prevent the sexual transmission of HIV. Under
      the terms of the agreement, Biosyn paid to NIH a nonrefundable, upfront license
      fee that was charged to research and development. NIH is entitled to milestone
      payments upon the achievement of certain development milestones and royalties
      on
      product sales. 

On
      February 1, 2006 Cellegy announced that it had entered into a non-exclusive,
      developing world licensing agreement with CONRAD for collaboration on the
      development of Cellegy s entire microbicide pipeline. The agreement encompasses
      the licensing of Savvy currently in Phase 3 clinical trials in the United States
      and Africa; UC-781, currently in expanded Phase 1 trials in the United States
      and Thailand; and Cyanovirin-N, currently in pre-clinical
      development. 

Under
      the
      terms of certain of its funding agreements, Biosyn has been granted the right
      to
      commercialize products supported by the funding in developed and developing
      countries, and is obligated to make its commercialized products, if any,
      available in developing countries, as well as to public sector agencies in
      developed countries, at prices reasonably above cost or at a reasonable royalty
      rate. 

Biosyn
      has entered into various other research and technology agreements. Under these
      other agreements, Biosyn is working in collaboration with various other parties.
      Should any discoveries be made under such arrangements, Biosyn may be required
      to negotiate the licensing of the discovery for the development of the
      respective technologies. 

Government
      Regulation   

FDA
      Requirements for Human Drugs.    The
      research, development, testing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, record
      keeping, distribution, advertising, promotion and marketing of drug products
      are
      extensively regulated by numerous governmental authorities in the United States
      and other countries. In the United States, drugs are subject to rigorous FDA
      regulation pursuant to, among other laws, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or
      FD C Act. 

The
      steps
      ordinarily required before a new pharmaceutical product may be marketed in
      the
      United States include: (i) preclinical tests; (ii) the submission to
      the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, which must be
      approved before human clinical trials commence; (iii) adequate and
      well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the
      product for its proposed indication; (iv) the submission of a New Drug
      Application, or NDA, for a new drug or a Product License Application for a
      new
      biologic to the FDA; and (v) FDA review and approval of the NDA or Product
      License Application before any commercial sale or shipment of the product.
      Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product formulation and
      animal studies (if an appropriate animal model is available) to assess the
      potential safety and efficacy of the product. Formulations must be manufactured
      according to the FDA s current Good Manufacturing Practice, or GMP,
      requirements, and preclinical safety tests must be conducted by laboratories
      that comply with FDA s Good Laboratory Practice regulations. 

The
      results of preclinical testing are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND and
      are reviewed by the FDA before commencement of human clinical trials. Clinical
      trials may begin 30 days after the IND is received, unless the FDA raises
      concerns or questions about the conduct of the clinical trials. If concerns
      or
      questions are raised, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding
      concerns before clinical trials can proceed. There can be no assurance that
      submission of an IND will result in FDA authorization to commence clinical
      trials. In some instances, the IND application process can result in substantial
      delay and expense. Clinical trials are normally done in three phases, although
      the phases may overlap. Phase 1 trials are concerned primarily with the safety
      and pharmacokinetics of the product. Phase 2 trials are designed primarily
      to
      demonstrative effectiveness and safety in treating the disease or condition
      for
      which the product is indicated. These trials typically explore various dose
      and
      regimens. Phase 3 trials are expanded clinical trials intended to gather
      additional information on safety and effectiveness needed to clarify the
      product s benefit-risk relationship, discover less common side effects and
      adverse reactions, and generate information for proper labeling of the drug,
      among other things. The FDA receives reports on the progress of each phase
      of
      clinical testing and may require the modification, suspension or termination
      of
      clinical trials if an unwarranted risk is presented to patients. When data
      is
      required from long-term use of a drug following its approval and initial
      marketing, the FDA can require Phase 4 or post-marketing, studies to be
      conducted. The FDA, upon request through an SPA, can also provide specific
      written guidance on the acceptability of protocol designs for selected clinical
      trials. 

12 

After
      successful completion of the required clinical testing, generally an NDA is
      submitted. FDA approval of the NDA (as described below) is required before
      marketing may begin in the United States. The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted
      and
      may request more information before it accepts the filing. The review process
      is
      often extended significantly by FDA requests for additional information or
      clarification. The FDA may refer the application to the appropriate advisory
      committee, typically a panel of clinicians, for review, evaluation and a
      recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is
      not
      bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee. During the review process,
      the FDA generally will conduct an inspection of the relevant drug manufacturing
      facilities and clinical sites to ensure that the facilities are in compliance
      with applicable Good Manufacturing Practices requirements. If FDA evaluations
      of
      the NDA application, manufacturing facilities, and clinical sites are favorable,
      the FDA may issue either an approvable letter or a not approvable letter that
      contains a number of conditions that must be met in order to secure approval
      of
      the NDA. When and if those conditions have been met to the FDA s satisfaction,
      the FDA will issue an approvable letter, authorizing commercial marketing of
      the
      drug for certain specific indications.  

If
      the
      FDA s evaluation of the NDA submission or manufacturing facilities is not
      favorable, the FDA may refuse to approve the NDA or may issue a not approvable
      letter, outlining the deficiencies in the submission and often requiring
      additional testing or information. Notwithstanding the submission of any
      requested additional data or information in response to an approvable or not
      approvable letter, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does
      not
      satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. Even if FDA approval is obtained,
      a marketed drug product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review
      and
      inspection, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product
      or manufacturer may result in restrictions or sanctions on such product or
      manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. 

The
      process of developing and obtaining approval for a new pharmaceutical product
      within this regulatory framework requires a number of years and the expenditure
      of substantial resources. There can be no assurance that necessary approvals
      will be obtained on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in obtaining regulatory
      approvals could have a material adverse effect on us. If we fail to comply
      with
      applicable regulatory requirements for marketing drugs, we could be subject
      to
      administrative or judicially imposed sanctions such as warning letters, fines,
      product recalls or seizures, injunctions against production, distribution,
      sales, or marketing, delays in obtaining marketing authorizations or the refusal
      of the government to grant such approvals, suspensions and withdrawals of
      previously granted approvals, civil penalties and criminal prosecution of
      Cellegy, our officers or our employees. 

Manufacturing.    Each
      domestic drug manufacturing facility must be registered with the FDA. Domestic
      drug manufacturing establishments are subject to routine inspection by the
      FDA
      and other regulatory authorities and must comply with GMP requirements and
      any
      applicable state or local regulatory requirements. Foreign manufacturing
      facilities are also subject to periodic FDA inspections or inspections by
      foreign regulatory authorities. Among other things, the FDA may withhold
      approvals of NDA s or other product applications if deficiencies are found at
      the facility. Vendors that supply us finished product or components used to
      manufacture, package and label products are subject to similar regulation and
      periodic inspection. We have used and intend to continue to use contract
      manufacturers that operate in conformance with these requirements to produce
      our
      compounds and finished products in commercial quantities. Nevertheless, there
      can be no assurances that manufacturing or quality control problems will not
      arise at the manufacturing plants of our contract manufacturers or that such
      manufacturers will have the financial capabilities or management expertise
      to be
      able to adequately supply product or maintain compliance with the regulatory
      requirements necessary to continue manufacturing our products. 

13 

Foreign
      Regulation of Drugs.    Whether
      or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product by comparable
      regulatory authorities may be necessary in foreign countries before the
      commencement of marketing of the product in such countries. The approval
      procedures vary among countries, can involve additional testing, and the time
      required may differ from that required for FDA approval. Although there are
      some
      procedures for unified filings for certain European countries, in general each
      country has its own procedures and requirements, many of which are time
      consuming and expensive. Under European Union regulatory systems, a company
      may
      submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or
      decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which is available for
      medicines produced by biotechnology or which are highly innovative, provides
      for
      the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for European Union
      member states. This authorization is called a marketing authorization approval.
      The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval
      decisions. Under this procedure, the holder of a national marketing
      authorization may submit an application to the remaining member states. Each
      member state must then make its own determination regarding approval. This
      procedure is referred to as the Mutual Recognition Procedure. There can be
      substantial delays in obtaining required approvals from both the FDA and foreign
      regulatory authorities after the relevant applications are filed. We expect
      to
      rely principally on corporate partners, licensees and contract research
      organizations, along with our expertise, to obtain governmental approval in
      foreign countries of drug formulations utilizing our compounds. 

Other
      Government Regulation.    In
      addition to regulations enforced by the FDA, Cellegy is also subject to
      regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental
      Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation
      and
      Recovery Act and other similar federal and state laws regarding, among other
      things, occupational safety, the use and handling of radioisotopes,
      environmental protection and hazardous substance control. Although we believe
      that we have complied with these laws and regulations in all material respects
      and have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance,
      there can be no assurance that Cellegy will not be required to incur significant
      costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the
      future. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous
      materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe
      that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply
      with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of
      accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely
      eliminated. In the event of such an accident, Cellegy could be held liable
      for
      any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our
      resources. 

Health
      Care Reform.    In
      the
      United States, there have been, and Cellegy expects there will continue to
      be, a
      number of federal and state proposals to implement cost controls and other
      health care regulatory measures. Future legislation could result in a
      substantial restructuring of the health care delivery system. While we cannot
      predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or
      the
      effect such proposals may have on our business, the uncertainty of such
      proposals could have a negative effect on our ability to raise capital and
      to
      identify and reach agreements with potential partners, and the adoption of
      such
      proposals could have an adverse effect on Cellegy. In both domestic and foreign
      markets, sales of our therapeutic products, if any, will depend in part on
      the
      availability of reimbursement from third-party payers. There can be no assurance
      that our products will be considered cost effective or that reimbursement will
      be available. We cannot predict the outcome of any government or industry reform
      initiatives or the impact thereof on our financial position or results of
      operations. 

Competition   

The
      pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive research efforts and
      rapid
      and significant technological change. In the development and marketing of
      topical prescription drugs, Cellegy faces intense competition. Cellegy is much
      smaller in terms of size and resources than many of its competitors in the
      United States and abroad, which include, among others, major pharmaceutical,
      chemical, consumer product, and biotechnology companies, specialized firms,
      universities and other research institutions. Cellegy s competitors may succeed
      in developing technologies and products that are safer, more effective or less
      costly than any which are being developed by Cellegy, thus rendering its
      technology and potential products obsolete and noncompetitive. Many of these
      competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources,
      clinical production and marketing capabilities and regulatory experience than
      Cellegy. 

14 

In
      addition, Cellegy s products, if commercialized, are subject to competition from
      existing products. Cellegesic, which is a prescription product, is expected
      to
      compete with over-the-counter products, such as Preparation H marketed by Wyeth,
      and various other prescription products. Cellegy s Fortigel product, if approved
      for marketing, is expected to compete with several products, including a
      currently marketed transdermal patch product sold by Watson Pharmaceuticals,
      two
      transdermal testosterone gel products marketed by Unimed/Solvay and Auxilium
      Pharmaceuticals and a buccal tablet marketed by Columbia Laboratories. In
      addition, there may be generic product competition for these prescription
      products in the future. As a result, Cellegy s products under development may
      not be able to compete successfully with existing products or possible generic
      products under development by other organizations. 

Savvy
      is
      subject to competition from other microbicides that are currently undergoing
      clinical trials and which may be sold by prescription or over the counter,
      as
      well as non-microbicide products such as condoms. Additionally, if a vaccine
      for
      HIV/AIDS is made available, this could limit the potential market for Savvy
      and
      Biosyn s other products. As a result, we cannot assure you that Biosyn s
      products under development will be able to compete successfully with existing
      products or other innovative products under development. 

Therapies
      for sexual dysfunction and women s health products represent a potentially large
      market opportunity. If this market potential is realized, competition will
      expand. The approval and marketing of competitive products and other products
      that treat the indications targeted by Cellegy could adversely affect the market
      acceptance of Cellegy s products. The presence of directly competitive products
      could also result in more intense price competition than might otherwise exist.
      We are aware of other pharmaceutical companies that are developing prescription
      testosterone replacement products for women, including a female testosterone
      patch from Procter   Gamble, a testosterone gel product from BioSante
      Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and a spray product from
      VIVUS, Inc. 

Employees   

As
      of
      March 15, 2006, the Company had 18 full-time employees and 1 part-time
      employee, including 4 full-time employees at our Brisbane, California office,
      and 14 full-time employees and 1 part-time employee at our Biosyn subsidiary
      in
      Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania. 

In
      addition, we utilize the services of several professional consultants, as well
      as contract manufacturing and clinical research organizations to supplement
      our
      internal staff s activities. None of our employees are represented by a labor
      union. We have experienced no work stoppages and we believe that our
      employee relations are good. 

Available
      Information   

We
      are
      subject to the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934.
      Consequently, we are required to file reports and information with the
      Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including reports on the following
      forms: annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
      current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or
      furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934. These reports and other information concerning us may
      be
      obtained at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street,
      N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 or accessed through the SEC s website at
   http://www.sec.gov   .
      The
      SEC s Public Reference Room phone number is 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition,
      electronic copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
      Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those
      reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are posted to our website (   www.cellegy.com   ).
      Such
      filings are placed on our website as soon as reasonably possible after they
      are
      filed with the SEC. Upon written request to the Company at Cellegy
      Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 1800 Byberry Road, Building 13, Huntingdon Valley,
      Pa, 19006, Attention: Chief Financial Officer, Cellegy will provide a copy
      of
      the 10-K to any stockholder. 

ITEM
      1A:  RISK FACTORS  

We
      have a history of losses, and we expect losses to continue for at least several
      years.   

We
      have
      incurred losses since our inception and negative cash flows from operations
      that
      raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our
      deficit accumulated during the development stage as of December 31, 2005,
      was approximately $132.3 million. We have never operated profitably and, given
      our planned level of operating expenses, we expect to continue to incur losses
      through at least 2006. If we are able to obtain sufficient funding, we plan
      to
      devote significant resources to pre-clinical studies, clinical trials,
      administrative, marketing, sales and patent activities. Accordingly, without
      substantial revenues from new corporate collaborations, royalties on product
      sales or other revenue sources, we expect to incur substantial operating losses
      in the foreseeable future as our potential products move through development
      and
      as we continue to invest in research and clinical trials. As a result of our
      continuing losses, we may exhaust our resources and may be unable to complete
      the development of our products, and our accumulated deficit will continue
      to
      increase as we continue to incur losses. Our losses may increase in the future,
      and even if we achieve our revenue targets, we may not be able to sustain or
      increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The amount of future
      net
      losses, and the time required to reach profitability, are both highly uncertain.
      To achieve sustained profitable operations, we must, among other things,
      successfully discover, develop, and obtain regulatory approvals for and market
      pharmaceutical products. We cannot assure you that we will ever be able to
      achieve or sustain profitability. 

15 

We
      have received a  going concern  opinion from our independent registered public
      accounting firm, which may negatively impact our
      business.   

Our
      audit
      opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the
      consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
      2005, included an explanatory paragraph indicating that there is substantial
      doubt about the Company s ability to continue as a going concern. We have
      incurred losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception. The
      financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from
      the
      outcome of this uncertainty. Any failure to dispel any continuing doubts about
      our ability to continue as a going concern could adversely affect our ability
      to
      enter into collaborative relationships with business partners, make it more
      difficult to obtain required financing on favorable terms or at all, negatively
      affect the market price of our common stock and could otherwise have a material
      adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
      operations. 

Our
      prospects for obtaining additional financing are uncertain and failure to obtain
      needed financing could affect our ability to develop or market products or
      to
      continue operations.   

Throughout
      our history, we have consumed substantial amounts of cash. Our cash needs may
      increase during 2006 to fund our research, development and clinical trial
      programs, administrative and litigation expenses, and Biosyn s operations to the
      extent these are not covered by various government and non-government
      organizations. In addition, one or more such organizations could withdraw,
      reduce the extent of, delay or terminate their funding commitments.

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, Cellegy had approximately $2.3 million in cash and cash
      equivalents. Cellegy has no current source of significant ongoing revenues
      or
      capital beyond existing cash, product sales and grant funding. 

The
      amount of cash required to fund future expenditures and capital requirements
      will depend on numerous factors including, without limitation: 

requirements
                in support of our development
                programs; 

progress
                and results of pre-clinical and clinical
                testing; 

time
                and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals, including the
                cost
                of complying with additional FDA information and/or clinical trial
                requirements to obtain marketing approval of our product
                candidates; 

the
                commercial success of our products that are approved for
                marketing; 

the
                costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims,
                oppositions and appeals, and our other intellectual property
                rights; 

the
                cost and outcome of the current litigation with PDI, Inc., as well as
                expenses associated with any other unforeseen
                litigation; 

our
                ability to establish new collaborative arrangements;

the
                validation of a second contract manufacturing site;
                and 

the
                extent of expenses required to support Biosyn s operations.

16 

In
      order
      to complete the development, manufacturing and other pre-launch marketing
      activities necessary to commercialize our products, additional financing will
      be
      required. Cellegy may seek other alternatives such as private or public equity
      investments, partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies to co-develop
      and
      fund our research and development efforts, sales of technology or assets,
      additional out-licensing agreements with third parties, or agreements to
      monetize in the near term our future milestone and royalty payments expected
      from licenses. There is no assurance that such funding will be available for
      us
      to finance our operations on acceptable terms, if at all, and any future equity
      funding may involve significant dilution to our stockholders.  

Insufficient
      funding may require us to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of our research
      and development activities, planned clinical trials, administrative programs,
      personnel, outside services and facility costs; reduce the size and scope of
      our
      sales and marketing efforts; delay or reduce the scope of, or eliminate, one
      or
      more of our planned commercialization or expansion activities; seek
      collaborators for our product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise
      would be desirable and on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise
      be
      available; or relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to
      technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to
      develop or commercialize ourselves on terms that are less favorable than might
      otherwise be available. In addition, even if we do receive additional financing,
      we may not be able to complete planned clinical trials, development,
      manufacturing or marketing of any or all of our product candidates. 

Cellegy
      believes that available cash resources will be adequate to satisfy our capital
      needs through at least April 30, 2006 assuming no material adverse financial
      impact associated with the PDI litigation and any subsequent legal proceedings,
      although failure to obtain additional funds as described above may affect the
      timing of development, clinical trials or commercialization activities relating
      to certain products  .
        Funds
      provided from sales of subsidiaries, assets, equity or debt financing, or other
      arrangements, if obtained, would permit satisfaction of capital needs for a
      longer period of time. A favorable determination by the FDA Advisory Committee
      and the FDA following the scheduled April 2006 hearing on our Cellegesic NDA
      may
      improve the prospects for one or more such transactions. 

We
      could be forced into bankruptcy.   

There
      is
      a risk that one or more of our creditors could bring lawsuits to collect amounts
      to which they believe they are entitled. In the event of lawsuits of this type,
      if we are unable to negotiate settlements or satisfy our obligations, we could
       voluntarily
      file bankruptcy proceedings, or we could become the subject of an involuntary
      bankruptcy proceeding filed by one or more creditors against
      us.  

The
      outcome of the lawsuit with PDI is uncertain. An unfavorable outcome will have
      a
      material adverse affect on our financial position and stock
      price.   

As
      more
      fully described under Item 3,  Legal Proceedings , the Company is presently
      engaged in a lawsuit with PDI alleging that Cellegy is in material breach of
      the
 April
      2005 settlement agreement between Cellegy and PDI and related documents,
      including two promissory notes given by Cellegy to PDI,  as a result of
      Cellegy s failure to notify PDI of the receipt of certain payments and of
      Cellegy s failure to pay amounts to which PDI believes it is entitled. The
      lawsuit seeks immediate payment of the notes along with payments for         default
      interest and damages. An unfavorable outcome to this lawsuit would have a
      material adverse affect on our business and stock price. 

We    
      are subject to regulation by regulatory authorities including the FDA, which
      could delay or prevent marketing of our products. Unexpected regulatory outcomes
      could adversely affect our business and stock price.   

Cellegy s
      product candidates, Savvy, Cellegesic, Fortigel and Tostrelle and our ongoing
      research and clinical activities relating to those product candidates are
      subject to extensive regulation by governmental regulatory authorities in the
      United States and in other countries. Before we obtain regulatory approval
      for
      the commercial sale of our potential drug products, we must demonstrate through
      pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and
      efficacious for use in the clinical indication for which approval is sought.
      The
      timing of NDA submissions, the outcome of reviews by the FDA and the initiation
      and completion of other clinical trials are subject to uncertainty, change
      and
      unforeseen delays. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act ( PDUFA ), the FDA
      establishes a target date to complete its review of an NDA. Although the FDA
      attempts to respond by the relevant PDUFA date to companies that file NDAs,
      there is no obligation on the FDA s part to do so. In addition, extensive
      current pre-clinical and clinical testing requirements and the current
      regulatory approval process of the FDA in the United States and of certain
      foreign regulatory authorities, or new government regulations, could prevent
      or
      delay regulatory approval of Cellegy s products. 

17 

The
      process of developing and obtaining approval for a new pharmaceutical product
      within this regulatory framework requires a number of years and substantial
      expenditures. There can be no assurance that necessary approvals will be
      obtained on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals
      could delay receipt of revenues from product sales, increase our expenditures
      relating to obtaining approvals, jeopardize corporate partnership arrangements
      that we might enter into with third parties regarding particular products,
      or
      cause a decline in our stock price. If we fail to comply with applicable
      regulatory requirements, we could be subject to a wide variety of serious
      administrative or judicially imposed sanctions and penalties, any of which
      could
      result in significant financial penalties that could reduce our available cash,
      delay introduction of products resulting in deferral or elimination of revenues
      from product sales, and could result in a decline in our stock
      price. 

One
      or
      more of our ongoing or planned clinical trials could be delayed, or the FDA
      could issue a Not Approvable letter with respect to our current or future
      product candidates, as it did with our Fortigel NDA in July 2003 and our
      Cellegesic NDA in December 2004. Such actions could result in further
      clinical trials or necessitate other time consuming or costly actions to satisfy
      regulatory requirements. For example, in January 2004, Cellegy reported
      positive results from its confirmatory Phase 3 study using Cellegesic for the
      treatment of chronic anal fissure pain, and we submitted an NDA to the FDA
      in
      June 2004. In December 2004, the FDA concluded that the trial data did
      not satisfy the standards specified in the SPA and did not grant marketing
      approval for Cellegesic.  

The
      Company submitted an amended NDA containing new analyses of data from its trials
      to the FDA in April 2005 and has been under review at the FDA since then. 
In January, 2006 the FDA indicated that the Company s submission will be
      reviewed April 25, 2006 by the Cardiovascular and Renal Drug Products Advisory
      Committee. The Committee s recommendation for approval or non-approval of
      Cellegesic is expected to be rendered at the conclusion of its review. While
      the
      FDA will consider the findings of the Committee, the final regulatory decision
      rests with the Agency. The FDA has not indicated when its final decision will
      be
      communicated. Cellegesic cannot be marketed in the United States unless and
      until the FDA grants marketing approval for the product.  

Similarly,
      since there is still no definitive agreement with the FDA regarding requirements
      for approval of Fortigel, the FDA will require an additional Phase 3
      clinical trial. The FDA may also decide to have an Advisory Panel review the
      submission of our product candidates with an uncertain outcome of such panel s
      recommendation, or take other actions having the effect of delaying or
      preventing commercial introduction of our products. The FDA or other regulatory
      agencies could impose requirements on future trials that could delay the
      regulatory approval process for our products. Similarly, there are risks and
      uncertainties associated with our female clinical trial programs for Tostrelle
      and Savvy in that sufficient resources for clinical development of these product
      candidates may not be available or one or both drugs may not prove to be safe
      and effective by standards established by worldwide regulatory authorities.
      There can be no assurance that the FDA, or other regulatory agencies, will
      find
      any of our trial data or other sections of our regulatory submissions sufficient
      to approve any of our product candidates for marketing in the United States
      or
      in other overseas markets. 

Sales
      of
      Cellegy s products outside the United States are subject to different regulatory
      requirements governing clinical trials and marketing approval. These
      requirements vary widely from country to country and could delay introduction
      of
      Cellegy s products in those countries. Cellegy may not be able to obtain
      marketing approval for one or more of its products in any countries in addition
      to those countries where approvals have already been obtained. 

Our
      clinical trial results are very difficult to predict in advance, and the
      clinical trial process is subject to delays. Failure of one or more clinical
      trials or delays in trial completion could adversely affect our business and
      our
      stock price.   

Results
      of pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not be good predictors
      of
      results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials. We cannot provide
      any assurances that Cellegy s present or future clinical trials will demonstrate
      the results required to continue advanced trial development and allow us to
      seek
      marketing approval for these or our other product candidates. Because of the
      independent and blind nature of certain human clinical testing, there will
      be
      extended periods during the testing process when we will have only limited,
      or
      no, access to information about the status or results of the tests. Cellegy
      and
      other pharmaceutical companies have believed that their products performed
      satisfactorily in early tests, only to find their performance in later tests,
      including Phase 3 clinical trials, to be inadequate or unsatisfactory, or that
      FDA Advisory Committees have declined to recommend approval of the drugs, or
      that the FDA itself refused approval, with the result that stock prices have
      fallen precipitously. 

18 

Clinical
      trials can be extremely costly. Certain costs relating to the Phase 3 trials
      for
      the Savvy product for contraception and reduction in the transmission of HIV,
      and other clinical and preclinical development costs for the Biosyn pipeline
      products acquired by Cellegy, are funded directly by certain grant and contract
      commitments from several governmental and non-governmental organizations
      ( NGOs ). Nevertheless, these Phase 3 trials and Cellegy s other planned
      clinical trials could require Cellegy to provide substantial funding in 2006.
      There can be no assurance that funding from governmental agencies and NGOs
      will
      continue to be available at previous levels or at all, and any other Phase
      3
      trials that Cellegy may commence in the future relating to its products could
      involve the expenditure of several million dollars through the completion of
      the
      clinical trials. In addition, delays in the clinical trial process can be
      extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased clinical
      trial costs. The speed with which we complete our clinical trials and our
      regulatory submissions, including NDAs, will depend on several factors,
      including the following: 

the
                rate of patient enrollment, which is affected by the size of the
                patient
                population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the difficulty
                of
                the entry criteria for the study and the nature of the protocol;

the
                timely completion of clinical site protocol approval and obtaining
                informed consent from subjects;  

analysis
                of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities;

changes
                in policies or staff personnel at regulatory agencies during the
                lengthy
                drug application review; and  

the
                availability of experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical
                studies,
                internally or through contract research organizations.

Adverse
      events in our clinical trials may force us to stop development of our product
      candidates or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, which
      could
      materially harm our business.   

Patients
      participating in the clinical trials of our product candidates may experience
      serious adverse health events. A serious adverse health event includes death,
      a
      life-threatening condition, hospitalization, disability, congenital anomaly,
      or
      a condition requiring intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage.
      The occurrence of any of these events could interrupt, delay or halt clinical
      trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA, or other
      regulatory authorities, denying approval of our product candidates for any
      or
      all targeted indications. An institutional review board or independent data
      safety monitoring board, the FDA, other regulatory authorities or we may suspend
      or terminate clinical trials at any time. Our product candidates may prove
      not
      to be safe for human use. Any delay in the regulatory approval of our product
      candidates could increase our product development costs and allow our
      competitors additional time to develop or market competing
      products. 

Due
      to our reliance on contract research organizations or other third-parties to
      assist us in conducting clinical trials, we are unable to directly control
      all
      aspects of our clinical trials.   

Currently,
      we rely on contract research organizations, or CROs, and other third parties
      to
      conduct our clinical trials. As a result, we have had and will continue to
      have
      less control over the conduct of the clinical trials, the timing and completion
      of the trials and the management of data developed through the trial than would
      be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with
      CROs can also be challenging, potentially leading to difficulties in
      coordinating activities. CROs may: 

have
                staffing difficulties;  

experience
                regulatory compliance issues;  

undergo
                changes in priorities or may become financially distressed;
                or 

not
                be able to properly control payments to government agencies or clinical
                sites, particularly in less developed
                countries. 

These
      factors may adversely affect their ability to conduct our trials. We may
      experience unexpected cost increases or experience problems with the timeliness
      or quality of the work of the CRO. If we must replace these CROs or any other
      third party contractor, our trials may have to be suspended until we find
      another contract research organization that offers comparable services. The
      time
      that it takes us to find alternative organizations may cause a delay in the
      commercialization of our product candidates or may cause us to incur significant
      expenses. Although we do not now intend to replace our CROs, such a change
      would
      make it difficult to find a replacement organization to conduct our trials
      in an
      acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. Any delay in or inability to
      complete our clinical trials could significantly compromise our ability to
      secure regulatory approval of our product candidates, thereby limiting our
      ability to generate product revenue resulting in a decrease in our stock
      price. 

19 

The
      type and scope of patent coverage we have may limit the commercial success
      of
      our products.   

Cellegy s
      success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for our
      products and methods, both in the United States and in other countries. Several
      of Cellegy s products and product candidates, such as Cellegesic, Savvy and
      Tostrelle, are based on existing molecules with a history of use in humans
      but
      which are being developed by us for new therapeutic uses or in novel delivery
      systems which enhance therapeutic utility. We cannot obtain composition patent
      claims on the compounds themselves, and instead rely on patent claims, if any,
      directed to use of the compound to treat certain conditions or to specific
      formulations. This is the case, for example, with our United States patents
      relating to Cellegesic and Fortigel products. Such method-of-use patents may
      provide less protection than a composition-of-matter patent, because of the
      possibility of  off-label  use of the composition. Cellegy may not be able to
      prevent a competitor from using a different formulation or compound for a
      different purpose. 

No
      assurance can be given that any additional patents will be issued to us, that
      the protection of any patents that may be issued in the future will be
      significant, or that current or future patents will be held valid if
      subsequently challenged. For example, oppositions have been filed with the
      European Patent Office regarding our European patent protecting the manufacture
      and use of nitroglycerin ointment and related compounds for the treatment of
      anal disorders, including fissures and various hemorrhoidal conditions. In
      December 2003, we reported that the Board of Opposition of the European
      Patent Office had rendered a verbal decision revoking Cellegy s European patent
      relating to its Cellegesic product and related compounds for the treatment
      of
      anal disorders, including fissures and various hemorrhoidal conditions. Although
      Cellegy has appealed this decision, an additional adverse outcome in the appeal
      process could have a negative effect on Cellegy, impacting the commercial
      success of our partner s marketing and corporate licensing efforts in Europe and
      adversely affecting our royalty revenues and stock price. 

The
      patent position of companies engaged in businesses such as Cellegy s business
      generally is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. There
      is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the United States Patent
      and
      Trademark Office, or USPTO. Patents in the United States are issued to the
      party
      that is first to invent the claimed invention. There can be no assurance that
      any patent applications relating to Cellegy s products or methods will issue as
      patents, or, if issued, that the patents will not be challenged, invalidated
      or
      circumvented or that the rights granted there under will provide us a
      competitive advantage. 

In
      addition, many other organizations are engaged in research and product
      development efforts in drug delivery and topical formulations that may overlap
      with Cellegy s products. Such organizations may currently have, or may obtain in
      the future, legally blocking proprietary rights, including patent rights, in
      one
      or more products or methods under development or consideration by Cellegy.
      These
      rights may prevent us from commercializing technology, or may require Cellegy
      to
      obtain a license from the organizations to use the technology. Cellegy may
      not
      be able to obtain any such licenses that may be required on reasonable financial
      terms, if at all, and cannot be sure that the patents underlying any such
      licenses will be valid or enforceable. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign
      countries do not protect intellectual property rights relating to United States
      patents as extensively as those rights are protected in the United States.
      The
      issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a patent
      with similar claims in another country, and claim interpretation and
      infringement laws vary among countries, so the extent of any patent protection
      is uncertain and may vary in different countries. As with other companies in
      the
      pharmaceutical industry, we are subject to the risk that persons located in
      other countries will engage in development, marketing or sales activities of
      products that would infringe our patent rights if such activities were in the
      United States. 

Our
      product sales strategy involving corporate partners is highly
      uncertain.   

Cellegy
      is seeking to enter into agreements with corporate partners regarding
      commercialization of our lead product candidates. Cellegy currently has a
      limited number of agreements with third parties to commercialize our product
      candidates. Cellegy may not be able to establish other future collaborative
      arrangements and we may not have the resources or the experience to successfully
      commercialize any such products on our own. Failure to enter into other
      arrangements could prevent, delay or otherwise jeopardize our ability to develop
      and market products in the United States and in markets outside of North
      America, reducing our revenues and profitability. 

20 

With
      the
      current and future planned corporate partner arrangements, we may rely on our
      partners to conduct clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and, if
      approved, manufacture, distribute, market or co-promote these products. Reliance
      on third party partners can create risks to our product commercialization
      efforts. Once agreements are completed, particularly if they are completed
      at a relatively early stage of product development, Cellegy may have little
      or
      no control over the development or marketing of these potential products and
      little or no opportunity to review clinical data before or after public
      announcement of results. Further, any arrangements that may be established
      may
      not be successful or may be subject to dispute or litigation between the
      parties. 

We
      do not have any history of manufacturing products on a large scale, and we
      have
      a limited number of critical suppliers.   

Cellegy
      has no direct experience in manufacturing commercial quantities of products
      and
      currently does not have any capacity to manufacture products on a large
      commercial scale. We currently rely on a limited number of contract
      manufacturers, primarily PendoPharm, Inc. and certain of Biosyn s suppliers, to
      manufacture our formulations. Although we are developing other contract
      manufacturers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into
      acceptable agreements with them or validate facilities successfully on a timely
      basis. This is an expensive and time-consuming process and there may be delays
      and additional costs relating to the technical transfer and validation of
      alternate suppliers. In the future, we may not be able to obtain contract
      manufacturing on commercially acceptable terms for compounds or product
      formulations in the quantities we need. Manufacturing or quality control
      problems, lack of financial resources or qualified personnel could occur with
      our contract manufacturers causing product shipment delays, inadequate supply,
      or causing the contractor not to be able to maintain compliance with the FDA s
      current Good Manufacturing Practice ( GMP ) requirements necessary to continue
      manufacturing. Such problems could limit our ability to produce clinical or
      commercial product, cause us to be in breach of contract obligations with our
      distributors to supply product to them, reduce our revenues from product sales,
      and otherwise adversely affect our business and stock price.  

PendoPharm, Inc.
      is Cellegy s contract manufacturer for our North American and European clinical
      and commercial supply of prescription products in those territories, while
      the
      Australian and South Korean product sales are sourced by a pharmaceutical
      manufacturer in Australia. In July 2003, PanGeo Pharma, our former contract
      manufacturer, filed for bankruptcy protection under Canadian law. Under a
      reorganization plan, PanGeo sold its facilities to an affiliate of
      Pharmascience, another Canadian manufacturer, and was renamed PendoPharm, Inc.
      Cellegy has not experienced any material adverse impact to date from the
      previous bankruptcy filing. The manufacturing facility was inspected and
      re-certified by Canadian regulatory authorities after its acquisition by
      PendoPharm, and PendoPharm has continued to supply product from the
      manufacturing facility without interruption. Nevertheless, uncertainty exists
      concerning the future operations of PendoPharm manufacturing plant and whether
      PendoPharm will be able to meet Cellegy s clinical and product requirements on a
      timely basis, if at all, in the future. In addition, there can be no assurances
      relating to PendoPharm s ability to produce product under GMP as required by the
      FDA or by other regulatory agencies. There could be difficulty or delays in
      importing raw materials or exporting product into or out of Canada resulting
      in
      delays in our clinical trials or commercial product sale 

We
      have limited sales and marketing experience.   

We
      may
      market some of our products, if successfully developed and approved and if
      we
      obtain sufficient funding, through a direct sales force in the United States.
      Cellegy has very limited experience in sales, marketing or distribution. To
      market these products directly, we may seek to establish a direct sales force
      in
      the United States or obtain the assistance of a marketing partner. However,
      Cellegy may not have the financial capability or the experience to successfully
      establish a direct sales force, marketing or distribution operations, which
      could delay or prevent the successful commercialization of our products and
      could reduce the ultimate profitability to Cellegy of such products if we needed
      to rely on a third party marketing partner to commercialize the
      products. 

21 

If
      medical doctors do not prescribe our products or the medical profession does
      not
      accept our products, our product sales and business would be adversely
      affected.   

Our
      business is dependent on market acceptance of our products by physicians,
      healthcare payers, patients and the medical community. Medical doctors 
willingness to prescribe our products depends on many factors,
      including: 

perceived
                efficacy of our products;  

convenience
                and ease of administration;  

prevalence
                and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and
                commercial use;  

availability
                of alternative treatments;  

cost
                effectiveness;  

effectiveness
                of our marketing strategy and the pricing of our products;

publicity
                concerning our products or competing products; and

our
                ability to obtain third-party coverage or reimbursement.

Even
      if
      we receive regulatory approval and satisfy the above criteria, physicians may
      not prescribe our products if we do not promote our products effectively.
      Factors that could affect our success in marketing our products
      include: 

the
                experience, skill and effectiveness of the sales force and our sales
                managers;  

the
                effectiveness of our production, distribution and marketing capabilities;

the
                success of competing products; and  

the
                availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers.

Failure
      of our products or product candidates to achieve market acceptance would limit
      our ability to generate revenue and could harm our business. 

If
      testosterone replacement therapies are perceived to create health risks, our
      testosterone gel product candidates may be
      jeopardized.   

Past
      studies of female hormone replacement therapy products have reported an increase
      in certain health risks with long-term use. As a result of such studies, some
      companies that sell or develop female hormone replacement products have
      experienced decreased sales of these products, and in some cases, a decline
      in
      the value of their stock. Publications have, from time to time, suggested
      potential health risks associated with testosterone replacement therapy ( TRT ).
      It is possible that further studies on the effects of TRT could demonstrate
      other health risks. This, as well as negative publicity about the risks of
      hormone replacement therapy, including TRT, could adversely affect patient
      or
      prescriber attitudes and impact the development and successful commercialization
      of our Fortigel, Tostrex and Tostrelle product candidates. In addition, in
      a
      meeting with the FDA, the FDA informed Cellegy that specific guidelines
      regarding the long-term safety of testosterone for the treatment of female
      sexual dysfunction are under internal discussion by the Division of Reproductive
      and Urologic Drug Products. Cellegy is awaiting these guidelines before
      embarking on a Phase 3 program. If the new FDA guidelines prove to be too
      onerous or too costly to implement, the Phase 3 program may be significantly
      delayed or we may decide not to pursue further development of Tostrelle product.
      The above factors could adversely affect investor attitudes and the price of
      our
      common stock. 

We
      have very limited staffing and will continue to be dependent upon key
      personnel.   

Our
      success is dependent upon the efforts of a small management team and staff.
      We
      have compensation or employment arrangements and a severance/retention plan
      in
      place with all of our executive officers, but none of our executive officers
      is
      legally bound to remain employed for any specific term. These arrangements
      may
      be terminated by either Cellegy or the officer at any time upon notice. We
      do
      not have key man life insurance policies covering any of our executive officers
      or key employees. If key individuals leave Cellegy, we could be adversely
      affected if suitable replacement personnel are not quickly recruited. There
      is
      competition for qualified personnel in all functional areas, which makes it
      difficult to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the
      development and growth of our business. Our future success depends upon our
      ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientific, clinical and
      administrative personnel. 

22 

Our
      corporate compliance programs cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with
      all potentially applicable regulations.   

The
      development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, and reimbursement of our products,
      together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by
      federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous
      entities outside of the United States. We are a relatively small company and
      we
      rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. We also
      have
      significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have the same
      or
      fewer product candidates in late stage clinical development. In addition, as
      a
      publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including
      the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, some of which have either only recently been adopted
      or are currently proposals subject to change. While we have developed and
      instituted a corporate compliance program and continue to update the program
      in
      response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot
      assure you that we are now or will be in compliance with all such applicable
      laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we
      could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or
      termination of clinical trials, restrictions on our products or manufacturing
      processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, or other
      sanctions or litigation. Failure to comply with potentially applicable laws
      and
      regulations could also lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of
      our
      common stock to decline, and impede our ability to raise capital or lead to
      the
      de-listing of our stock. 

We
      are
      evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management
      to
      report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest
      to,
      our internal controls, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We will be
      performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary
      remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor
      attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ( Section
      404 ). As a result, we expect to incur significant additional expenses and
      diversion of management s time. Cellegy is considered a non-accelerated filer,
      and as such is required to comply with the Section 404 requirements for its
      fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. While we anticipate being able to fully
      implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects
      of Section 404 by our compliance deadline, we cannot be certain as to the
      timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or
      the
      impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the
      requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance,
      we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities,
      including the SEC. In addition, we may be required to incur a substantial
      financial investment to improve our internal systems and the hiring of
      additional personnel or consultants. 

Risks
      Relating to Our Industry  

We
      face intense competition from larger companies, and in the future Cellegy may
      not have the resources required to develop innovative products. Cellegy s
      products are subject to competition from existing
      products.  

The
      pharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid and significant technological
      change. In the development and marketing of prescription drugs, Cellegy faces
      intense competition. Cellegy is much smaller in terms of size and resources
      than
      many of its competitors in the United States and abroad, which include, among
      others, major pharmaceutical, chemical, consumer product, specialty
      pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research
      institutions. Cellegy s competitors may succeed in developing technologies and
      products that are safer and more effective than any that we are developing
      and
      could render Cellegy s technology and potential products obsolete and
      noncompetitive. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial
      and technical resources, clinical production and marketing capabilities and
      regulatory experience. In addition, Cellegy s products are subject to
      competition from existing products. Cellegesic, if ever commercialized, is
      expected to compete with over-the-counter products, such as Preparation H
      marketed by Wyeth, and various prescription products. As a result, we cannot
      assure you that Cellegy s products under development may not be able to compete
      successfully with existing products or with innovative products under
      development by other organizations. 

Savvy
      is
      subject to competition from other microbicides that are currently undergoing
      clinical trials and which may be sold by prescription or over the counter,
      as
      well as non-microbicide products such as condoms. Additionally, if a vaccine
      for
      HIV/AIDS is successfully developed and made available, this could limit the
      potential market for Savvy and Biosyn s other products. As a result, Biosyn s
      products under development may not be able to compete successfully with existing
      products or other innovative products under development. 

23 

We
      are subject to the risk of clinical trial and product liability
      lawsuits.   

The
      testing of human health care product candidates entails an inherent risk of
      allegations of clinical trial liability, while the marketing and sale of
      approved products entails an inherent risk of allegations of product liability.
      We are subject to the risk that substantial liability claims from the testing
      or
      marketing of pharmaceutical products could be asserted against us in the future.
      Cellegy has obtained clinical trials insurance coverage relating to our clinical
      trials in an aggregate amount of $3 million. If any of our product candidates
      are approved for marketing, we may seek additional coverage.  

There
      can
      be no assurance that Cellegy will be able to obtain or maintain insurance on
      acceptable terms, particularly in overseas locations, for clinical and
      commercial activities or that any insurance obtained will provide adequate
      protection against potential liabilities. Moreover, our current and future
      coverages may not be adequate to protect us from all of the liabilities that
      we
      may incur. If losses from liability claims exceed our insurance coverage, we
      may
      incur substantial liabilities that exceed our financial resources. In addition,
      a product or clinical trial liability action against us would be expensive
      and
      time-consuming to defend, even if we ultimately prevailed. If we are required
      to
      pay a claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources and our business
      and
      results of operations may be harmed. 

Our
      stock price could be volatile.  

Our
      stock
      price has from time to time experienced significant price and volume
      fluctuations. Since becoming a public company, our stock price has fluctuated
      due to overall market conditions and due to matters or events more specific
      to
      Cellegy. Events or announcements that could significantly impact our stock
      price
      include: 

Publicity
                or announcements regarding regulatory developments relating to our
                products;  

Clinical
                trial results, particularly the outcome of our more advanced studies;
                or
                negative responses from both domestic and foreign regulatory authorities
                with regard to the approvability of our
                products; 

Period-to-period
                fluctuations in our financial results, including our cash and investment
                balance, operating expenses, cash burn rate or revenue levels;

Negative
                public announcements, additional legal proceeding or financial problems
                of
                our key suppliers, particularly relating to our Canadian manufacturer
                and
                our service providers;  

Common
                stock sales in the public market by one or more of our larger
                stockholders, officers or
                directors; 

A
                negative outcome in existing litigation or other potential legal
                proceedings; or  

Other
                  potentially negative financial announcements, including delisting
                  from the
                  OTCBB, a review of any of our filings by the SEC, changes in accounting
                  treatment or restatement of previously reported financial results
                  or
                  delays in our filings with the
                  SEC. 

The
      Kingsbridge Structured Secondary Offering ( Kingsbridge SSO ) financing
      arrangement may have a dilutive impact on our stockholders. The SSO arrangement
      imposes certain limitations on our ability to issue equity or equity-linked
      securities.   

There
      are
      4,000,000 shares of our common stock that are reserved for issuance under the
      structured secondary offering facility arrangement, or Kingsbridge SSO, that
      we
      entered into in January 2004 with Kingsbridge Capital Limited, or
      Kingsbridge, 260,000 shares of which are related to a warrant that we issued
      to
      Kingsbridge. In certain circumstances where the registration statement covering
      those shares is not effective or available to Kingsbridge, additional shares
      may
      be issuable to Kingsbridge under the agreement. Such circumstances could
      include, for example, suspending Kingsbridge s ability to sell shares pursuant
      to the registration statement because of the existence of material undisclosed
      developments relating to Cellegy. If within 15 trading days following any
      settlement date on which Cellegy issues shares under the Kingsbridge SSO,
      Cellegy suspends Kingsbridge s ability to sell shares by delivering a notice to
      Kingsbridge, referred to as a blackout notice, then if the volume weighted
      average market price ( VWAP ) of our common stock, is higher on the trading day
      immediately before the blackout notice is delivered than it is on the first
      trading date after the blackout trading period is lifted, Cellegy is obligated
      to pay to Kingsbridge an amount based on a percentage, ranging from 75% to
      25%
      depending on when the blackout notice is delivered, of the difference between
      the two VWAP prices multiplied by the number of shares purchased by Kingsbridge
      under the most recent drawn down and held by Kingsbridge immediately before
      the
      suspension was imposed. Cellegy may, in its discretion, pay this amount either
      in cash or in shares, the value of which is based on the market price of the
      common stock on the first trading date after the registration statement became
      available again.  

24 

The
      issuance of shares under the Kingsbridge SSO at a discount to the market
      price of the common stock, and upon exercise of the warrant, will have a
      dilutive impact on other stockholders, and the issuance or even potential
      issuance of such shares, if any, could have a negative effect on the market
      price of our common stock. If we sell stock to Kingsbridge when our share price
      is decreasing, such issuance will have a more dilutive effect and may further
      decrease our stock price. A decrease in our stock price or other consequences
      of
      issuing shares under the Kingsbridge SSO could potentially cause us not to
      satisfy one or more requirements for the continued listing of our common stock
      on the OTCBB, or could impair or prevent our ability to obtain additional
      required financing, resulting in a damaged capital structure. 

To
      the
      extent that Kingsbridge sells shares of our common stock issued under the
      Kingsbridge SSO to third parties, our stock price may decrease due to the
      additional selling pressure in the market. The perceived risk of dilution from
      sales of stock to or by Kingsbridge may cause holders of our common stock to
      sell their shares or encourage short sales. This could contribute to decline
      in
      our stock price. 

During
      the two-year term of the Kingsbridge SSO, we are subject to certain restrictions
      on our ability to engage in certain equity or equity-linked financings without
      the consent of Kingsbridge. These restrictions primarily relate to non-fixed
      future-priced securities. We may not issue securities that are, or may become,
      convertible or exchangeable into shares of common stock where the purchase,
      conversion or exchange price for such common stock is determined using a
      floating or otherwise adjustable discount to the market price of the common
      stock during the two year term of our agreement with Kingsbridge. However,
      the
      agreement does not prohibit us from conducting most kinds of additional debt
      or
      equity financings, including Private Investments in Public Equity ( PIPE ),
      shelf offerings, and secondary offerings. 

Under
      the
      terms of the Kingsbridge SSO, if we fail to issue and sell common stock to
      Kingsbridge pursuant to draw downs at least equal to $2.66 million, then we
      have
      agreed to pay $266,000 to Kingsbridge. We have made draw-downs of less than
      this
      amount. As a result, unless these provisions are amended or waived, we owe
      Kingsbridge $266,000.  

Future
      sales of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock
      price.   

A
      substantial portion of our shares is held by a relatively small number of
      stockholders. Sales of a significant number of shares into the public markets,
      particularly in light of our relatively small trading volume, may negatively
      affect our stock price. We also have outstanding warrants and vested stock
      options that can be exercised by the holders to acquire shares of our common
      stock. The exercise of these options or warrants could result in significant
      dilution to our stockholders at the time of exercise. 

In
      the
      future, we will likely issue additional shares of common stock or other equity
      securities, including but not limited to options, warrants or other derivative
      securities convertible into our common stock, which could result in significant
      dilution to our stockholders and adversely affect our stock price 

Changes
      in the expensing of stock options could result in unfavorable accounting charges
      or require us to change our compensation practices.   

For
      Cellegy, stock options are a significant component of compensation for existing
      employees and to attract new employees. We currently are not required to record
      stock-based compensation charges if the employee s stock option exercise price
      equals or exceeds the fair value of our common stock at the date of grant.
      The
      Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued a new accounting standard
      requiring recording of expense for the fair value of stock options granted.
      During 2006, when we change our accounting policy to record expense for the
      fair
      value of stock options granted our net loss may increase. We intend to continue
      to include various forms of equity in our compensation plans, such as stock
      options and other forms of equity compensation allowed under our plans. If
      we
      continue our reliance on stock options, our reported losses could
      increase. 

25 

ITEM
      1B:  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None. 

ITEM
      2    :         PROPERTIES   

In
      March
      of 2005, Cellegy relocated its South San Francisco offices to the nearby city
      of
      Brisbane where it is subleasing approximately 5,800 square feet of office space
      with an expiration date of May 31, 2007. The company relocated its headquarters
      to Biosyn s Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania facilities in September 2005 and
      expects to close the Brisbane office during the second quarter of 2006. Biosyn s
      facilities consist of approximately 10,000 square feet of leased laboratory
      and
      office space with an expiration date of October 31, 2008. The company
      believes its current facilities to be adequate for its anticipated
      needs. 

ITEM
      3    :        LEGAL
      PROCEEDINGS   

Except
      as
      described below, Cellegy is not a party to any material legal
      proceedings.  

In
      October 2003, the Company received a communication from PDI invoking
      mediation procedures under its exclusive license agreement with PDI relating
      to
      Fortigel. After mediation was completed in December 2003, both PDI and
      Cellegy initiated litigation proceedings against each other. Cellegy filed
      a
      declaratory judgment action in federal district court in San Francisco against
      PDI, and PDI initiated an action in federal district court in New York against
      Cellegy.  

On
      April
      11, 2005, Cellegy entered into a settlement agreement with PDI resolving the
      lawsuits that the companies had filed against each other.  Under the terms
      of the settlement agreement, the license agreement was terminated and all
      product rights reverted to Cellegy.    Under
      the
      settlement agreement, the previous license agreement was terminated and all
      product rights reverted to Cellegy. Cellegy paid $2 million to PDI upon signing
      the settlement agreement. 

Cellegy
      also issued a $3.0 million Secured Promissory Note to PDI, payable in 18 months,
      with earlier payments of amounts owed under the note required to be made to
      the
      extent of  50% of licensing fees, royalties or milestone payments (or, in
      each case, other payments in the nature thereof) received by Cellegy under
      Cellegy s agreements or arrangements with respect to Cellegy s Tostrex 
(testosterone gel) and Rectogesic  (nitroglycerin ointment) products in
      territories outside of North America, and 50% of licensing fees, royalties
      or
      milestone payments (or, in each case, other payments in the nature thereof)
      received by Cellegy under Cellegy s agreements or arrangements with respect to
      Fortigel licensees in North American markets. These payments are required
      to be made to PDI within two business days after Cellegy receives the
      payments.  These various payments will be made until the amount owed
      under the note is paid in full.  Cellegy s obligations under the note are
      secured by a security interest in favor of PDI, which is reflected in a security
      agreement between Cellegy and PDI, in Cellegy s interests in the payments
      described above and any proceeds there from (and certain related
      collateral).  In addition, Cellegy is required to make payments on the $3.0
      million note with respect to 10% of proceeds received by Cellegy in excess
      of $5
      million from financing transactions.  Payments made in 2005 totaled
      $200,000. Amounts owed under the note may be accelerated upon an event of
      default, which include (but are not limited to) certain kinds of bankruptcy
      filings or certain related actions or proceedings, an   uncured
      material breach of Cellegy s obligations under the note, the security interest
      no longer being a valid, perfected, first priority security interest, and a
      default in indebtedness of Cellegy with an aggregate principal amount in excess
      of $2 million that results in the maturity of such indebtedness being
      accelerated before its stated maturity. Cellegy made a $100,000 payment to
      PDI
      in October 2005 shortly after the due date specified in the secured note and
      has
      paid interest to PDI on that amount. Cellegy also issued to PDI a $3.5 million
      principal amount Convertible Senior Note due April 11, 2008.  Cellegy may
      redeem the note at any time before the maturity date upon not less than 30
      or
      more than 60 days notice to PDI, at a redemption price equal to the principal
      amount; if Cellegy delivers such a redemption notice, PDI may convert the note
      into shares of Cellegy common stock at a price of $1.65 per share.   In
      addition, after the 18 month anniversary of the debenture, PDI may convert
      the
      note into Cellegy common stock at a price of $1.65 per share.   If Cellegy
      does redeem the note within the first 18 months; then Cellegy has agreed to
      file
      a registration statement relating to possible resale of any shares issued to
      PDI
      after 18 months. 2,121,212 shares would be issuable upon
      such conversion.  As long as amounts are owed under the note, Cellegy
      has agreed not to incur or become responsible for any indebtedness that ranks
      contractually senior or pari passu in right of payment to amounts outstanding
      under the note.  Events of default under the senior note are generally
      similar to events of default under the secured note. 

26 

On
      December 1, 2005, the Company received a notice from PDI notifying the Company
      that PDI considers that Cellegy to be in default of the Secured Promissory
      Note
      and the Nonnegotiable Convertible Senior Note which were part of the settlement
      agreement. PDI s notice states that PDI believes that Cellegy is in material
      breach of the Secured Promissory Note as a result of Cellegy s failure to notify
      PDI of the receipt of certain payments and of Cellegy s failure to pay amounts
      to which PDI believes it is entitled. PDI also notified Cellegy that PDI
      believes that an outstanding principal amount of $2.8 million, plus default
      interest, of the Secured Promissory Note and outstanding principal amount of
      $3.5 million, plus default interest, of the Nonnegotiable Convertible Senior
      Note are immediately due and payable in cash pursuant to the  Event of Default 
provisions of the settlement agreement. Cellegy had previously made certain
      payments pursuant to the provisions of the settlement agreement. Among other
      things, PDI claimed that it was entitled to $1.0 million of the $2.0 million
      payment that Strakan paid to Cellegy in connection with the November 2005
      negotiation of the license agreement relating to Rectogesic.  

On
      December 2, 2005, PDI filed suit in United States District Court for the
      Southern District of New York requesting that the court declare that Cellegy
      has
      breached its obligations under the settlement agreement, order Cellegy to
      specifically perform its obligations under the settlement agreement, and awarded
      PDI damages in the amount of $6.4 million plus default interest as well as
      certain other amounts. Cellegy does not agree that the payments made by Strakan
      under the renegotiated agreement fall within the definition of "Pledged
      Collateral" in the settlement documents and does not believe that any amount
      is
      owed to PDI as a result of such payments. The proceedings are in the discovery
      stage and no trial date has been set. The Company intends to vigorously defend
      itself in the litigation.  

ITEM
      4    :   
          SUBMISSION
      OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

Not
      applicable. 

27 

PART II  

ITEM
      5:       MARKET
      FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER
      PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

Price
      Range of Common Stock   

Cellegy s
      common stock currently trades on the OTC Bulletin Board ( OTCBB ) exchange under
      the symbol  CLGY.OB . Cellegy s common stock was traded on the Nasdaq National
      Market until September 14, 2005, when its listing was transferred to the Nasdaq
      Small Cap Market. On December 29, 2005, the common stock was delisted from
      the
      Nasdaq Small Cap Market, and shortly thereafter the common stock began trading
      on the OTCBB. The following table sets forth the range of high and low closing
      sales prices for the common stock as reported on The NASDAQ Stock Market Small
      Cap Market and OTCBB for the periods indicated below. 

On
      September 14, 2005 the Company received a determination letter from the Nasdaq
      Listing Qualifications Panel transferring its stock listing to the Nasdaq Small
      Cap Market. On December 29, 2005 Cellegy was delisted from the Nasdaq Small
      Cap
      Market. The delisting resulted from the Company not satisfying the $35 million
      market capitalization requirement under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule
      4310(c)(2)(B)(ii). The Company also d  id
      not
      comply with alternative standards for continued listing on the Nasdaq Small
      Cap
      Market.  

Holders  

As
      of
      March 9, 2006 there were approximately 154 stockholders of record,
      excluding beneficial holders of stock held in street name. 

Dividend
      Policy   

We
      have
      never paid cash or declared dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate
      that we will declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock in the
      foreseeable future. Future dividends on our common stock or other securities,
      if
      any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on,
      among     other
      things, our operations, capital requirements and surplus, general financial
      condition, contractual restrictions and such other factors as our board of
      directors may deem relevant. 

Information
      with respect to equity compensation plans that is required by this Item will
      be
      included in our Proxy Statement for the 2006 annual meeting of
      stockholders. 

Recent
      Sales of Unregistered Securities   

Sales
      of
      unregistered securities during the past year have previously been reported
      in
      quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K that we
      have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

28 

ITEM
      6:        SELECTED
      FINANCIAL DATA   

The
      following unaudited selected historical information has been derived from the
      audited consolidated financial statements of Cellegy. The consolidated financial
      information as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and for each of the three
      years in the period ended December 31, 2005 are derived from our audited
      consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The
      information set forth below should be read in conjunction with the financial
      statements, related Notes thereto, and the section entitled  Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 

Statements
      of Operations Data: (In thousands except per share
      data)   

Balance
      Sheet Data: (In thousands)   

ITEM
          7:         MANAGEMENT S
          DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
          OPERATIONS  

General  

Cellegy
      Pharmaceuticals is a development stage specialty biopharmaceutical company
      engaged in the development and commercialization primarily of prescription
      drugs
      targeting women s health care conditions, including HIV prevention and sexual
      dysfunction, as well as gastrointestinal conditions using proprietary topical
      formulations and nitric oxide donor technologies. 

Major
      Events  

In
      January 2004, we entered into a Structured Secondary Offering, or SSO,
      agreement with Kingsbridge Capital Limited. The agreement requires Kingsbridge
      to purchase up to 3.74 million shares of newly issued common stock at times
      and
      in amounts selected by us over a period of up to two years, subject to certain
      restrictions. We filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
      Commission relating to shares assumable under the SSO, which was subsequently
      declared effective on June 1, 2004. We completed two draw downs in 2004,
      issuing a total of 246,399 common shares resulting in net proceeds of
      approximately $0.8 million. 

29 

In
      July 2004, Cellegy announced that the United Kingdom s Committee on Safety
      of Medicines, or MHRA, recommended that marketing authorization be granted
      by
      the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency for Cellegesic , branded
      Rectogesic  outside the United States. In August 2004, the MHRA issued an
      approvable letter for Rectogesic. 

In
      July 2004, Cellegy and ProStrakan entered into an exclusive license
      agreement for the future commercialization of Tostrex  (testosterone gel) in
      Europe and received a $500,000 non-refundable upfront payment. Under the terms
      of the agreement, ProStrakan will be responsible for regulatory filings, sales,
      marketing and distribution of Tostrex throughout the European Union and in
      certain nearby non-EU countries, and Cellegy was responsible for supplying
      finished product to ProStrakan through Cellegy s contract manufacturer. Cellegy
      could receive future milestone payments and royalties on net sales of Tostrex.
      In January 2006, Cellegy amended its 2004 agreement with ProStrakan concerning
      Tostrex. Under the terms of the amended agreement, ProStrakan will assume
      responsibility for all manufacturing and other product support functions and
      will purchase Tostrex directly from Cellegy s contract manufacturer rather than
      purchasing the product from Cellegy under the terms of the original agreement.
      Cellegy will continue to be eligible to receive milestones and royalties as
      set
      forth in the original agreement. 

In
      July 2004, Cellegy completed a private placement financing, primarily with
      a number of existing institutional stockholders, issuing 3,020,000 common shares
      and warrants to purchase 604,000 shares of common stock, resulting in net
      proceeds of $10.2 million. The offering price of the common shares sold was
      $3.42 per share and the exercise price of the warrants is $4.62 per
      share. 

In
      October 2004, Cellegy acquired Biosyn, Inc., a privately held
      biopharmaceutical company. Under the terms of the agreement, Cellegy issued
      approximately 2,462,000 shares of Cellegy s common stock for all of Biosyn s
      issued and outstanding capital stock. In addition, outstanding Biosyn stock
      options and warrants were assumed by Cellegy and converted into options and
      warrants to purchase approximately 318,504 shares of Cellegy common stock.
      The
      options issued to acquire Cellegy common stock are fully vested and exercisable.
      The exercise prices of the options and warrants were adjusted by the exchange
      ratio in the transaction; the expiration date and other terms of the converted
      options and warrants remained the same. The purchase price does not include
      any
      provisions for contingent milestone payments of up to $15.0 million, which
      would
      be payable to Biosyn shareholders on the achievement of C31G marketing approval
      in the United States and a portion of which would be payable earlier upon
      commercial launch in certain major overseas markets. 

In
      December 2004, Cellegy and ProStrakan entered into an exclusive license
      agreement for the commercialization of Cellegesic, branded Rectogesic outside
      of
      the United States, in Europe. In connection therewith, Cellegy received a
      non-refundable upfront payment of $1.0 million and was entitled to receive
      additional milestone payments and payments for products sold to ProStrakan.
      ProStrakan will be responsible for additional regulatory filings, sales,
      marketing and distribution of Rectogesic throughout Europe. Under the original
      agreement, Cellegy was responsible for supplying finished product to ProStrakan
      through its contract manufacturer. 

On
        April
        11, 2005, Cellegy entered into a settlement agreement with PDI resolving
        the
        lawsuits that the companies had filed against each other.  Under the terms
        of the settlement agreement, the license agreement was terminated and all
        product rights have reverted to Cellegy. Cellegy paid $2.0 million to PDI
        upon signing the settlement agreement. Cellegy also issued a $3.0 million
        promissory note to PDI, due in October 2006, and a $3.5 million non-negotiable
        senior convertible debenture. The settlement of the Company s lawsuit with PDI
        resulted in the recognition of the remaining $6.5 million in deferred revenue
        from PDI as license revenue during the quarter ended June 30,
        2005. 

In
      November 2005, Cellegy renegotiated its marketing agreement with ProStrakan.
      Under the terms of the amended agreement, ProStrakan will assume responsibility
      for all manufacturing and other product support functions and will purchase
      the
      product directly from the manufacturer rather than from Cellegy. In connection
      with its revised marketing agreement, Cellegy received a payment of $2.0 million
      and may receive certain future milestone payments of up to $750,000 upon
      approval of the product in certain major European countries. 

On
      January 16, 2006, Cellegy entered into an amendment of its Exclusive License
      and
      Distribution Agreement dated July 9, 2004, with ProStrakan Group plc, whereby
      ProStrakan will assume responsibility for all of the manufacturing and other
      product support functions for Tostrex in Europe. In December 2004, the product
      was approved by the MPA for sale in Sweden. 

30 

On
      February 1, 2006, Cellegy announced that it had entered into a non-exclusive,
      developing world licensing agreement with CONRAD for the collaboration on the
      development of Cellegy s entire microbicide pipeline. The agreement encompasses
      the licensing of Savvy currently in Phase 3 clinical trials in the United States
      and Africa; UC-781, currently in expanded Phase 1 trials in the United States
      and Thailand; and Cyanovirin-N, currently in pre-clinical
      development. 

On
      March
      24, 2006, the Company announced that its European marketing partner, ProStrakan
      had successfully completed the European Union Mutual Recognition Procedure
      for
      Rectogesic. Following the successful conclusion of the MRP process, national
      licenses will be sought and are expected to be issued in due course in the
      19
      additional countries (in addition to the United Kingdom where approvals have
      been previously obtained) included in the MRP submission application. Cellegy
      is
      entitled to receive $250,000 for each marketing regulatory approval obtained
      in
      the first of any three countries out of France, Italy, Germany or Spain up
      to a
      maximum total amount payable of $750,000. Under its previous agreement with
      PDI,
      Inc, PDI is entitled to receive one-half of these payments.  

Critical
      Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Use
      of Estimates.    The
      preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the United States, requires management to
      make
      estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the
      financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from
      those estimates. We have identified below some of our more significant
      accounting policies. For further discussion of our accounting policies, see
      Note
      1 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Revenue
      Recognition   . Revenues
      related to cost reimbursement provisions under development contracts are
      recognized as the costs associated with the projects are incurred. Revenues
      related to substantive and at risk non-refundable milestone payments specified
      under development contracts are recognized as the milestones are achieved.
      We
      receive certain government and non-government grants that support our research
      effort in defined research projects. These grants generally provide for
      reimbursement of approved costs incurred as defined in the various grants.
      Revenues associated with these grants are recognized as costs under each grant
      are incurred. Advanced payments received under these agreements prior to
      completion of the related work are recorded as deferred revenue until earned.
      Should the research funded by federal grants result in patented technologies,
      the federal government would be entitled to a nonexclusive, nontransferable,
      irrevocable, paid-up license to utilize such technologies. 

At
      December 31, 2005, $759,906 of expenses covered under research and development
      agreements were earned and recorded as grant revenue but were
      unbilled. 

Revenues
      related to product sales are recognized when title has been transferred to
      the
      customer and when all of the following criteria are met: a persuasive evidence
      of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or service has been rendered,
      the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.
      There is no right of return for our products. 

Revenues
      under license and royalty agreements are recognized in the period the earnings
      process is completed based on the terms of the specific agreement. Advanced
      payments received under these agreements are recorded as deferred revenue at
      the
      time the payment is received and are subsequently recognized as revenue on
      a
      straight-line basis over the longer of the life of the agreement or the life
      of
      the underlying patent. 

Royalties
      payable to Cellegy under these license agreements will be recognized as earned
      when the royalties are no longer refundable under certain minimum royalty terms
      defined in the agreement. 

Goodwill
      and Intangible Assets.    Goodwill
      and intangible assets consist primarily of goodwill recorded in connection
      with
      Cellegy s acquisition of Biosyn. In accordance with SFAS No. 142  Goodwill
      and Other Intangible Assets , goodwill and other intangible assets are no longer
      systematically amortized, but rather Cellegy performs an annual assessment
      for
      impairment by applying a fair-value based test. This test is generally performed
      each year in the fourth quarter. Additionally, goodwill and intangible assets
      are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that
      the
      carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would
      be
      recognized based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset
      and
      its estimated fair value, which would be determined based on either discounted
      future cash flows or other appropriate fair value methods. The evaluation of
      goodwill and other intangibles for impairment requires management to use
      significant judgments and estimates including, but not limited to, projected
      future revenue, operating results and cash flows. An impairment would require
      Cellegy to charge to earnings the write-down in value of such
      assets. 

Impairment
      of Long Lived Assets.   
      Cellegy
      reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business
      conditions indicate that these carrying values may not be recoverable in the
      ordinary course of business. When such an event occurs, management determines
      whether there has been an impairment by comparing the anticipated undiscounted
      future net cash flows to the related asset s carrying value. If an asset is
      considered impaired, the asset is written down to fair value, which is
      determined based either on discounted cash flows or appraised value, depending
      on the nature of the asset. 

31 

Notes
      Payable   .
      Notes
      payable include non-interest bearing notes issued by Cellegy to PDI pursuant
      to
      a lawsuit settlement, and a note issued to the Ben Franklin Institute.  The
      notes have been recorded at their net present value at the time of
      issuance. 

Research
      and Development Expenses.    Research
      and development expenses, which include clinical study payments made to clinical
      sites and clinical research organizations, consulting fees, expenses associated
      with regulatory filings and internally allocated expenses such as rent, supplies
      and utilities, are charged to expense as they are incurred. Clinical study
      expenses are accrued based upon such factors as the number of subjects enrolled
      and number of subjects that have completed treatment for each
      trial. 

Milestone
      payments that are made upon the occurrence of future contractual events prior
      to
      receipt of applicable regulatory approvals are charged to research and
      development expense. Cellegy may capitalize and amortize certain future
      milestone and other payments subsequent to the receipt of applicable regulatory
      approvals, if any. 

Derivative
      Instruments   . Cellegy
      accounts for certain warrants issued in conjunction with its financings as
      derivative financial instruments. As a derivative, the fair value of the warrant
      is recorded as a liability in the balance sheet and changes in the fair value
      of
      the warrant are recognized as other income or expense during each period. The
      fair value of the warrant is expected to change primarily in response to changes
      in Cellegy s stock price. Significant increases in the fair value of our stock
      could give rise to significant expense in the period of the change. Likewise,
      a
      reduction in our stock price could give rise to significant income in the period
      of the change. 

Results
      of Operations  

Biosyn
      was acquired on October 22, 2004 and its results were included in consolidation
      from its date of acquisition. Cellegy believes that there is no significant
      impact from inflation and changing prices on its sales, revenues and net losses
      for the periods presented. 

Years
      Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003   

Revenues.    Cellegy
      had revenues of $12,835,000, $2,596,000 and $1,620,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
      respectively. Revenues in each of the three years presented consist of
      licensing, milestone and product sales revenues. Revenues in 2004 and 2005
      include grant revenue generated primarily by Biosyn s operations. 

Licensing
      revenues.    Licensing
      revenues were $7,268,000, $844,000 and $833,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
      respectively. The $6,424,000 increase in licensing revenue in 2005 as compared
      to 2004 was primarily attributable to the settlement of Cellegy s lawsuit with
      PDI in April 2005 which resulted in the recognition of the remaining $6.5
      million of deferred revenues from PDI. In 2004 and 2003, Cellegy recorded
      licensing revenue of $833,000 from PDI, reflecting the amortization over the
      expected commercial life of Fortigel, of the initial $15.0 million received
      from
      PDI on the agreement date in December 2002. The balance of licensing
      revenues in each of the three years presented arose from the amortization to
      income of deferred revenue recorded in connection with agreements relating
      to
      Rectogesic and Tostrex. We expect licensing revenues to decline significantly
      in
      the future. 

In
      November 2005, we amended our 2004 agreement with ProStrakan concerning
      Rectogesic.       Under
      the
      terms of the amended agreement, ProStrakan will assume responsibility for all
      manufacturing and other product support functions and will purchase Rectogesic
      directly from Cellegy s contract manufacturer rather than purchasing the product
      from Cellegy under the terms of the original agreement. In return, Cellegy
      received a non-refundable payment of $2.0 million and may receive future
      milestone payments of up to $750,000 upon approval of the product in certain
      major European countries. The $2.0 million non-refundable payment is being
      amortized to income over the remaining estimated life of the underlying patent.
      Approximately $22,000 was amortized to income in 2005. 

Product
      sales.    Product
      sales were $1,157,000, $745,000 and $768,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
      respectively. Pacific rim sales of Rectogesic through our Australian subsidiary
      were $637,000, $563,000 and $385,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
      The
      revenue growth in 2004 was due primarily to effective advertising and selling
      programs for Rectogesic throughout Australia. We expect that the growth in
      sales
      revenues through our Australian subsidiary will continue to increase in 2006
      but
      at a lower annual rate and activities concerning the research of new
      markets and new uses for Rectogesic have been undertaken.  

32 

Product
      sales in 2004 and 2003 included $181,000 and $316,000 in skin care product
      sales. There were no skin care product sales in 2005 and, in December 2005,
      Cellegy divested this business for approximately $25,000. 

Rectogesic
      was launched in the United Kingdom in May 2005. Product sales in 2005 included
      approximately $471,000 of sales of Rectogesic to ProStrakan in connection with
      ProStrakan s marketing of Rectogesic in the U.K. Due to the renegotiation of its
      agreement with ProStrakan mentioned above, Cellegy will no longer record sales
      of Rectogesic to ProStrakan. 

Tostrex
      was launched in Sweden in September 2005. Tostrex sales were not significant
      in
      2005 and unless additional jurisdictions approve the marketing of Tostrex,
      Cellegy does not expect a significant level of sales from this product.
      ProStrakan is presently pursuing additional marketing approvals for Tostrex
      in
      mainland Europe through the Mutual Recognition Procedure. 

In
      January 2006, Cellegy amended its 2004 agreement with ProStrakan concerning
      Tostrex. Under the terms of the amended agreement, ProStrakan will assume
      responsibility for all manufacturing and other product support functions and
      will purchase Tostrex directly from Cellegy s contract manufacturer rather than
      purchasing the product from Cellegy under the terms of the original agreement.
      Cellegy will continue to be eligible to receive milestones and royalties as
      set
      forth in the original agreement. 

Grant
      revenues.    Grant
      revenues for 2005 were $4,410,000 and were $1,008,000 for the period of
      October 22 to December 31, 2004. Grant revenue was not significant in
      2003.  

Grant
      revenues for 2005 were generated by funding from several agencies in support
      of
      the following development programs: $3,146,000 for Cyanovirin-N, $451,000 for
      Savvy, $424,000 for UC-781 and $387,000 for a UC-781/C31G combination product.
      2004 grant revenues for the period of October 22 to December 31, 2004
      were as follows: $562,000 for Cyanovirin-N, $273,000 for Savvy, $76,000 for
      UC-781 and $94,000 for a UC-781/C31G combination product. The level of grant
      funding under the various grant arrangements is generally dependent upon the
      amount of direct labor (primarily laboratory personnel) and direct expenses
      such
      as supplies, testing services and other direct costs expected to be incurred
      in
      connection with the given program over its duration. The grant agreements
      generally provide for an overhead percentage that is applied to the direct
      labor
      costs. These amounts, along with the amounts billed to the grantor for direct
      costs comprise the total amount billed and recorded as grant revenue. Grant
      agreements undergo periodic renegotiation and it is the prerogative of granting
      agency or foundation to determine the level and duration of future funding
      of
      Cellegy s programs. There can be no assurance that Cellegy will be able to
      maintain grant funding at current levels or at levels necessary to properly
      fund
      its research programs. 

In
      addition to the grants funding above, Biosyn benefits indirectly from agency
      funding paid to third party contractors in support of its ongoing Phase 3
      clinical trials. These payments from the funding agencies are made directly
      to
      the service providers, not to Biosyn. Under the terms of certain of its funding
      agreements, Biosyn has been granted the right to commercialize products
      supported by the funding in developed and developing countries, and is obligated
      to make its commercialized products, if any, available in developing countries,
      as well as to public sector agencies in developed countries at prices reasonably
      above cost or at a reasonable royalty rate. 

Cost
      of Product Sales   .
      Cost of
      product sales is comprised primarily of direct labor and raw material
      manufacturing costs for commercialized products and also includes shipping
      costs
      and those costs associated with stability and validation testing of finished
      goods prior to shipment. The stability and validation testing components of
      cost
      of product sales comprise a significant percentage of gross sales since these
      costs are substantially fixed in nature. Cost of product sales were $385,000,
      $148,000 and $186,000   in
      2005,
      2004 and 2003, respectively. The increase of $237,000 in 2005 as compared to
      2004 is due to increased sales volume generated by Pacific Rim sales and due
      to
      the launch of Rectogesic and Tostrex in 2005.   Due
      to
      the renegotiation of our agreements with ProStrakan mentioned above, we expect
      cost of product sales to decline in 2006. 

Research
      and Development Expenses.    Research
      and development expenses were $8,481,000, $9,599,000 and $10,558,000 in 2005,
      2004 and 2003, respectively. Research and development expenses, which are
      primarily related to the costs of clinical trials and regulatory filings,
      represented 48%, 31% and 68% of our total operating expenses in 2005, 2004
      and
      2003, respectively. 

33 

On
      a
      consolidated basis, 2005 research and development expenses decreased
      approximately $1.1 million compared to 2004. 

Cellegy
      research and development expenses at the parent level decreased $4.8 million
      in
      2005 as compared to 2004. $2.2 million of this decrease was predominantly due
      to
      the cessation of clinical testing activities for Cellegesic in the U.S., and
      a
      $1.0 million decrease in clinical material manufacturing costs. The balance
      of
      the decrease was comprised primarily of decreases in salary costs of $800,000
      due to the termination of Cellegesic and Fortigel trials and the termination
      of
      associated personnel, and reductions in related professional, consulting and
      CRO
      fees. 

Biosyn
      research and development expenses are included in our operations for a full
      year
      for 2005 and for the period of October 22 to December 31, 2004 in
      2004. Biosyn s research expenses increased $4.7 million in 2005 as compared to
      the short period in 2004 and offset the 2005 decrease in Cellegy research and
      development expenses noted above. Savvy Phase 3 trials were being conducted
      in
      three major locations in 2005: Ghana and Nigeria for HIV clinical testing and
      in
      the United States for contraception clinical trials. In late 2005, Cellegy
      announced that the first interim analysis had taken place for the Ghana trial
      and that while the trial s Data Monitoring Committee found no reason to
      interrupt or stop the trial based on a review of safety, the number of
      sero-conversions were   approximately
      one-third of the expected rate  .
      As a
      result of this finding, Cellegy decided to terminate the Ghana trial. At the
      time of the termination, the Ghana HIV trial reached full enrollment. Spending
      for major programs in 2005 consisted of $1.6 million in spending related to
      Savvy HIV and contraception trial programs, $3.1 million in spending relating
      to
      Cyanovirin-N and $426,000 on UC-781 programs. Savvy related study costs are
      comprised primarily of $1.4 million in clinical material manufacturing of active
      and placebo compounds and applicators and related shipping costs to African
      trial sites. Cyanovirin-N program costs are comprised of $2.5 million in direct
      expenses and UC-781 programs costs are comprised of $343,000 in direct expenses.

Total
      research and development in 2004 as compared with 2003 decreased $959,000 due
      primarily to a reduction in clinical and regulatory costs in 2004 of $2,865,000
      primarily relating to Cellegesic Phase 3 clinical trial expenses and various
      Fortigel clinical costs. These were offset somewhat in 2004 by higher research
      and development expenses of $860,000 incurred by Biosyn primarily for the
      development of Savvy included in the consolidated results during the fourth
      quarter of 2004, other Cellegy research expenditures of $635,000, primarily
      relating to the validation of Cellegesic and Fortigel manufacturing processes
      at
      a second contract manufacturer and non-cash expenses of $750,000 relating to
      common stock issued to Neptune Pharmaceuticals for a milestone achieved during
      2004. 

Research
      and development expenses consist primarily of internal salaries and allocated
      costs as well as external clinical costs, including: clinical site payments,
      costs of manufacturing, testing and shipping clinical supplies and service
      fees
      to clinical research organizations, or CROs, that monitor the clinical sites
      and
      perform other related trial support services. Additionally, research expenses
      consist of regulatory costs, including the cost of filing product approval
      applications around the world, and the costs of various consultants to support
      the filings.  

Selling,
      General and Administrative Expenses   . Selling,
      general and administrative expenses were $9,249,000 in 2005, $6,641,000 in
      2004,
      and $4,768,000 in 2003. Biosyn selling, general and administrative expenses
      are
      included in Cellegy s operations for a full year for 2005 and for the period of
      October 22 to December 31, 2004 in 2004. California personnel
      previously engaged in research or development are now being reported under
      selling, general and administrative, as the parent s efforts in the latter part
      of 2005 have shifted substantially towards the management of its manufacturing
      activities or towards other administrative functions.  

In
      2005,
      selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $2.7 million in 2005
      as compared to 2004. Approximately $1.6 million of this increase is due to
      the
      inclusion of Biosyn for a full year in 2005 operations. The balance of this
      increase was due to: increase in salary expense at the parent level due to
      increased severance and retention expenses of $570,000, increase in professional
      fees of $515,000 due to accounting and audit fees related to the 2004
      reincorporation, legal fees incurred in connection with the PDI litigation
      and
      patent fees. The overall increase in selling, general and administrative
      expenses was partly offset by income of $1,090,000 recognized upon the receipt
      of the sublease termination fee. Cellegy announced in the third quarter of
      2005
      the relocation of its headquarters to its Biosyn facility in Pennsylvania and
      it
      is expected that the Brisbane, California office will be closed during the
      second quarter of 2006. 

34 

Selling,
      general and administrative expenses in 2004 increased by $1,873,000, compared
      with 2003 resulting primarily from higher PDI litigation costs in 2004 of
      $1,215,000, accounting expenses of approximately $315,000 related to additional
      registration statement filings and to consulting cost associated with the
      Company s Sarbanes-Oxley compliance programs, pre-launch Cellegesic marketing
      expenses of $540,000, and the inclusion of Biosyn expenses of $266,000.

We
      expect
      selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006 to decline somewhat due
      to
      the 2005 reductions in staffing and related expenses such as benefits, and
      due
      to expected reductions in consulting and accounting fees. These reductions,
      however, may be partially offset by PDI litigation expenses expected in
      2006. 

Acquired-In-Process
      Technology.    Results
      for       2004
      included an in-process technology charge or $15.0 million incurred in connection
      with the acquisition of Biosyn on October 22, 2004. The in-process programs
      include the Phase 3 development of Savvy microbicide vaginal gel. Other
      development programs include UC-781 and Cyanovirin-N microbicides which are
      in
      much earlier stages of testing. 

Based
      on
      a risk assessment of the technology, its stage of development and the estimated
      level of effort required to complete the clinical testing to facilitate
      regulatory review, management concluded that the technological feasibility
      of
      the in-process research and development purchased from Biosyn had not yet been
      reached and that the technology had no alternative future use. Accordingly,
      the
      amount allocated to purchase research and development of approximately $15.0
      million was charged to income in 2004. Substantial additional manufacturing
      optimization and development expenses associated with completing the clinical
      trials, as well as legal and regulatory expenses relating to the drug approval
      process will be required to gain marketing approval. 

Other
      Income (Expense)   .       Cellegy
      recognized net interest and other income of $208,000 in 2005, $259,000 for
      2004,
      and $360,000 for 2003. Net interest and other income for 2005 consisted of
      $174,000 in interest income, $626,000 in interest expense primarily from the
      PDI
      notes, $690,000 derivative revaluation income associated with the Kingsbridge
      and PIPE warrants and $93,000 primarily consisting of rental income. Net
      interest and other income for 2004 was comprised primarily of $110,000 in
      interest income, $149,000 in rental income and derivative revaluation income
      associated with the Kingsbridge warrants of $390,000. The net interest and
      other
      income in 2003 consisted of $212,000 in interest income from cash and
      investments and $148,000 in rental and other income. Reductions in interest
      income over the last three years were due to lower average investment balances
      and interest rates. 

Liquidity
      and Capital Resources  

Our
      cash
      and cash equivalents were $2.3 million, $8.7 million and $7.6 million at
      December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 

Cash
      and
      cash equivalents decreased $6.5 million during 2005 due primarily to the
      inclusion of a full year of Biosyn operations in Cellegy s 2005 consolidated
      results, the cash payment of $2.0 million made in connection with settlement
      of
      PDI s lawsuit and its associated legal costs, and severance and retention
      payments of $521,000.  The settlement with PDI included the issuance of two
      non-interest bearing long-term notes with an aggregate face value of $6.5
      million which Cellegy recorded at their net present value of approximately
      $4.7
      million. The use of cash from operating activities during 2005 was partially
      offset by $5.7 million in net proceeds provided by financing activities from
      the
      May 2005 sale of common stock, $1.1 million received from Vaxgen as part of
      the
      sublease termination agreement, $2.0 million from ProStrakan in connection
      with
      the amendment of the Rectogesic agreement.  Restricted cash proceeds of
      $227,000 were received as part of the termination of the lease on the Company s
      South San Francisco facility. 

Non
      cash
      events during 2005 include the recognition of $6.5 million in licensing revenue
      from PDI recorded in conjunction with the litigation settlement, $1.2 million
      in
      fixed asset and leasehold improvement write offs due to the Company s move to
      the Brisbane facility, additional fixed asset write offs of certain
      manufacturing equipment and modifications of $374,000 and interest expense
      of
      $532,000 arising from the accretion of the PDI and Ben Franklin notes payable.
      Accrued expenses and other current liabilities decreased $690,000 due to the
      lower accruals for legal, clinical and consulting fees, offset by increases
      in
      retention and severance accruals in 2005.  

35 

Cash
      and
      cash equivalents increased $1.1 million during 2004. Cash used in operations
      of
      $13.6 million was somewhat offset primarily by net proceeds of the
      2004 private placement financing and Kingsbridge SSO draw downs of
      approximately $11.2 million and $1.5 million in payments received pursuant
      to
      the ProStrakan licenses. Additionally, maturing short term investments of $3.7
      million were added to cash and cash equivalents during 2004. 

Net
      cash
      used in operating activities was $13.6 million and $12.8 million in 2004 and
      2003, respectively. The $14.6 increase in net loss and the $0.8 million decrease
      in cash used in operations during 2004, compared with 2003, was primarily due
      to
      the $15.0 million non-cash purchased research and development charge associated
      with the Biosyn acquisition. This charge was included in the 2004 net loss.
      Other major changes in operating cash in 2004 included a non-cash milestone
      payment of $750,000 to Neptune, a net decrease in accrued expenses and accounts
      payable of $1.4 million due to the extinguishment of certain Biosyn liabilities
      by Cellegy after the acquisition, partially offset by higher accrual of legal
      and consulting expenses, and an increase in deferred revenue of $1.3 million
      related primarily to the ProStrakan license agreements and the Biosyn
      acquisition. These were partially offset by a reduction in the loss on fixed
      assets of about $600,000 primarily due to the write-off of tenant improvements
      at our South San Francisco corporate facility in 2003, lower equity compensation
      expense of $0.5 million relating to non-cash bonuses paid in stock in 2003
      and a
      $0.5 million increase in accounts receivable. 

We
      prepared the financial statements assuming that we will continue as a going
      concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of
      liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. At
      December 31, 2005, we had a deficit accumulated during the development
      stage of $132.3 million, negative cash flows from operations of $96.2 million,
      and cash and cash equivalents of $2.3 million. We expect negative cash flow
      from
      operations to continue for the foreseeable future, with the need to continue
      or
      expand development programs and to commercialize products once regulatory
      approvals have been obtained. We believe we do not have enough financial
      resources to continue operations beyond April 2006. These factors raise
      substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plans,
      with regard to these matters, include raising additional required funds through
      one or more of the following options, among others: sales of assets, seeking
      partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies or private foundations to
      co-develop and fund our research and development efforts, pursuing additional
      out-licensing arrangements with third parties, re-licensing and monetizing
      in
      the near term our future milestone and royalty payments expected from existing
      licensees and seeking equity or debt financing. In addition, we will continue
      to
      implement further cost reduction programs and reduce discretionary spending,
      if
      necessary. 

There
      is
      no assurance that any of the above options will be implemented on a timely
      basis
      or that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms,
      if
      at all. Alternatively, we may be required to accept less than favorable
      commercial terms in any such future arrangements. If adequate funds are not
      available on acceptable terms, we could be required to delay development or
      commercialization of certain products, to license to third parties the rights
      to
      commercialize certain products that we would otherwise seek to commercialize
      internally or to reduce resources devoted to product development. In addition,
      if we do not receive all, or a portion, of the planned Biosyn grant funding,
      or
      if such funding is delayed, this could impact our ability to complete our Biosyn
      development programs on a timely basis, if at all. The financial statements
      do
      not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this
      uncertainty. Any failure to dispel any continuing doubts about our ability
      to
      continue as a going concern could adversely affect out ability to enter into
      collaborative relationships with business partners, make it more difficult
      to
      obtain required financing on favorable terms or at all, negatively affect the
      market price of our common stock and could otherwise have a material adverse
      effect on our business, financial condition and results of
      operations. 

36 

Future
      expenditures and capital requirements depend on numerous factors including,
      without limitation, the progress and focus of our research and development
      programs, the progress of pre-clinical and clinical testing, the time and costs
      involved in obtaining regulatory approvals, the progress and outcome of the
      PDI
      litigation, the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent
      claims, oppositions and appeals, the timing and level of grant funding to
      support Biosyn s clinical programs and operations and our ability to establish
      new collaborative arrangements. 

Cellegy
      believes that available cash resources will be adequate to satisfy our capital
      needs through at least April 30, 2006 assuming no material adverse financial
      impact associated with the PDI litigation and any subsequent legal proceedings.
      At present, our revenues from existing licensing arrangements, funding
      agreements and other sources are not sufficient to offset our ongoing operating
      expenses or to pay in full our current obligations. Funds provided from sales
      of
      subsidiaries, assets, equity or debt financing, or other arrangements, if
      obtained, would permit satisfaction of capital needs for a longer period of
      time. A favorable determination by the FDA Advisory Committee and the FDA
      following the scheduled April 2006 hearing on our Cellegesic NDA may improve
      the
      prospects for one or more such transactions although there can be no assurances
      that this will be the case. The existence and extent of our obligations could
      adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. Failure
      to
      obtain additional funds as described above may affect the timing of development,
      clinical trials or commercialization activities relating to certain products
      and
      could require us to curtail our operations, reduce personnel, sell part or
      all
      of our assets or seek protection under bankruptcy laws. There is a risk that
      one
      or more of our creditors could bring lawsuits to collect amounts to which they
      believe they are entitled. In the event of lawsuits of this type, if we are
      unable to negotiate settlements or satisfy our obligations, we could  voluntarily
      file bankruptcy proceedings, or we could become the subject of an involuntary
      bankruptcy proceeding filed by one or more creditors against
      us.  

Contractual
      Obligations  

The
      table
      below summarizes certain of our future contractual obligations, which include
      obligations under our current facilities leases in Brisbane, California and
      Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania along with capital equipment lease obligations
      at December 31, 2005 (in thousands): 

In
      March
      2005, we relocated our principal office from South San Francisco to Brisbane,
      California. Our sublease for the office in Brisbane has a term that expires
      February 28, 2006. In March, 2006, Cellegy extended its sublease agreement
      with
      Vaxgen. Under the terms of the new agreement, the Company will lease its
      existing facilities in Brisbane for $6,000 per month beginning March 1, 2006
      through June 30, 2006 and for $13,000 per month until May 31, 2007.

Other
      obligations not reflected in the table are comprised primarily of employment
      agreements, employee retention agreements,  and severance payments of
      $129,000 to a former executive officer.  License agreements and notes
      payable. The above table also excludes milestone, royalty payments and the
      repayment obligation, as such amounts are not probable or estimable at this
      time. License agreements generally provide for payment by us of annual license
      fees, milestone payments and royalties upon successful commercialization of
      products. 

Under
      the
      Kingsbridge SSO, we have not issued and sold common stock pursuant to the draw
      down provisions equal to at least $2.66 million during the term of the agreement
      which expires in January 2006. As a result, unless these provisions are
      amended or waived we owe  $266,000 to Kingsbridge. In addition, our
      December 1997 agreement with Neptune Pharmaceuticals Corporation pursuant
      to which we acquired the rights relating to Cellegesic calls for a series of
      payments, which may be paid in shares of common stock, upon successful
      completion of various development milestones. We issued shares to Neptune in
      2001 and 2004 upon completion of certain milestones, valued at $750,000 for
      each
      milestone. The remaining milestone payments are contingent and become payable
      upon certain product development or commercialization milestones, the
      achievement and timing of which are subject to material
      uncertainties. 

Off
      Balance Sheet Arrangements  

As
        more
        fully described in Note 8,  Notes Payable , Cellegy issued a $3.5 million senior
        convertible debenture to PDI in 2005 in connection with the settlement of
        its
        lawsuit with PDI. Cellegy may redeem the note at anytime before the maturity
        date upon prior notice to PDI, at a redemption price equal to the principal
        amount. If Cellegy delivers such a redemption notice, PDI may convert the
        note
        into shares of Cellegy common stock at a price of $1.65 per share. In addition,
        after the 18th month anniversary of the debenture, PDI may convert the note
        into
        Cellegy common stock at a price of $1.65 per share. If Cellegy does not redeem
        the note within the first 18 months, then Cellegy has agreed to file a
        registration statement relating to the possible resale of any shares issued
        to
        PDI after 18 months. 2,121,212 shares would be issuable upon such
        conversion. 

37 

Recent
      Accounting Pronouncements  

In
      December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based
      Payment , which replaces SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 123R requires public
      companies to recognize an expense for share-based payment arrangements including
      stock options and employee stock purchase plans. The statement eliminates a
      company s ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using APB
      25, and generally requires instead that such transactions be accounted for
      using
      a fair value based method. SFAS No. 123R requires an entity to measure the
      cost of employee services received in exchanged for an award of equity
      instruments based on the fair value of the award on the date of the grant,
      and
      to recognize the cost over the period during which the employee is to provide
      service in exchange for the award. SFAS No. 123R is effective for public
      companies with a fiscal year that begins after June 15, 2005. The cumulative
      effect of this pronouncement applied on a modified prospective basis will be
      measured and recognized starting the first quarter of 2006. We anticipate that
      the impact of Adopting SFAS No. 123R will result in an annual expense of
      approximately $292,000 based on known grants. Upon adoption of SFAS
      No. 123R, companies are allowed to select one of three alternative
      transition methods. Management is currently evaluating the transition methods,
      as well as valuation methodologies and assumptions for employee stock options
      in
      light of SFAS No. 123R. Current estimates of option values using the
      Black-Scholes method (as shown under  Stock Based Compensation ) may not be
      indicative of results from valuation methodologies ultimately implemented by
      the
      Company upon adoption of SFAS No. 123R. 

In
      May
      2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a
      replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 . The statement
      requires retrospective application of changes in accounting principle to prior
      periods  financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either
      the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. When it
      is
      impracticable to determine the period specific effects of an accounting change
      on one or more individual prior periods presented, this statement requires
      that
      the new accounting principle be applied to the balances of assets and
      liabilities as of the beginning of the earliest period for which retrospective
      application is practicable, and that a corresponding adjustment be made to
      the
      opening balance of the retained earnings for that period rather than being
      reported in the income statement. The statement also requires that a change
      in
      depreciation, amortization, or depletion method for long-lived, non-financial
      assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate affected by a change
      in accounting principle. This pronouncement is effective for accounting changes
      made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not
      believe adoption of SFAS 154 will have a material effect on its consolidated
      financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

ITEM
      7A:        QUANTITATIVE
      AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Cellegy
      invests its excess cash in short-term, investment grade, fixed income securities
      under an investment policy. All of our investments are classified as
      available-for-sale. All of our securities owned as of December 31, 2005 were
      in
      money market funds and are classified as cash equivalents. We believe that
      potential near-term losses in future earnings, fair values or cash flows related
      to our investment portfolio are not significant. We currently do not hedge
      interest rate exposure. If market interest rates were to increase or decrease,
      the fair value of our portfolio would not be affected.  

We
      are
      incurring market risk associated with the issuance of warrants to Kingsbridge
      to
      purchase 260,000 shares of our common stock and to the May 2005 investors to
      purchase approximately 1.4 million shares of our common stock. We will continue
      to calculate the fair value at the end of each quarter and record the difference
      to other income or expense until the warrants are exercised. We are incurring
      risk associated with increases or decreases in the market price of our common
      stock, which will directly impact the fair value calculation and the non-cash
      charge or credit recorded to the income statement in future
      quarters. 

38 

ITEM
      8:        FINANCIAL
      STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

The
      financial statements and financial information required by Item 8 are set forth
      below on   pages F-1
      through F-38 of this report. 

Index
                to Financial Statements 

F-1 

Report
                of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
                Firm 

F-2 

Consolidated
                Balance Sheets 

F-3 

Consolidated
                Statements of Operations 

F-4 

Consolidated
                Statements of Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) 

F-5 

Consolidated
                Statements of Cash Flows 

F-10 

Notes
                to Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-12 

Quarterly
                Financial Results 

F-38 

ITEM
      9:        CHANGES
      IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
      DISCLOSURES   

None. 

ITEM
      9A:      CONTROLS
      AND PROCEDURES   

Evaluation
      of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Under
      the
      supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief
      Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of
      our
      disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under
      Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ) as of the end of the
      period covered by this form 10K. Based on their evaluation, our principal
      executive officer and principal accounting officer concluded that our disclosure
      controls and procedures were effective in timely providing them with material
      information relating to the Company, as required to be disclosed in the reports
      the Company files under the Exchange Act. 

Changes
      in Internal Controls  

There
      were no changes in the Company s internal controls over financial reporting
      identified in connection with the evaluation by the Chief Executive Officer
      and
      Chief Financial Officer that occurred during the Company s last fiscal quarter
      that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect
      the
      Company s internal controls over financial reporting. 

ITEM
      9B:       OTHER
      INFORMATION   

None. 

39 

PART III   

ITEM
      10:        DIRECTORS
      AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

Information
      required by this Item with respect to directors and compliance with
      Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 may be found in
      the sections captioned  Election of Cellegy Directors  and  Compliance under
      Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  appearing in the
      definitive Proxy Statement to be filed no later than 120 days after the end
      of
      the 2005 fiscal year and to be delivered to stockholders in connection with
      the
      Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held in June 2006 (the  2006
      Proxy Statement ). Such information is incorporated herein by reference.
      Information required by this Item with respect to executive officers is set
      forth below: 

Richard
                C. Williams 

62 

Chairman
                and Interim Chief Executive Officer, Director 

John
                J. Chandler 

64 

Vice
                President, Corporate Development 

Robert
                J. Caso 

50 

Vice
                President, Finance and Chief Financial
                Officer 

Richard
      C. Williams.        Mr. Williams
      became Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer in January 2005. He
      first joined Cellegy as Chairman of the Board in November 2003. He is
      President and Founder of Conner-Thoele Ltd., a consulting and financial advisory
      firm specializing in health care acquisition analysis, strategy formulation
      and
      post-merger consolidation and restructuring. Mr. Williams served as Vice
      Chairman, Strategic Planning of King Pharmaceuticals following the acquisition
      by King of Medco Research where he was Chairman. He has held a number of
      executive level positions with other pharmaceutical companies. Mr. Williams
      is a director of EP Med Systems, a public electrophysiology diagnostic company
      and is Chairman and a director of ISTA Pharmaceuticals, a public emerging
      ophthalmology company. Mr. Williams received a B.A. degree in economics
      from DePauw University and an M.B.A. from the Wharton School of
      Finance. 

John
      J. Chandler.        Mr. Chandler
      became Vice President, Corporate Development in May 1998. From
      January 1995 to March 1998, he served as Vice President, Europe for
      the Medical Device Division of American Home Products, now Wyeth. During 1994,
      he was Area Director, Europe/Latin America for Wyeth. From 1968 to 1993, he
      held
      a series of management and senior management positions with American Cyanamid
      Company. Mr. Chandler holds an M.B.A. in Marketing from Seton Hall
      University and a B.S. in Biology from the Queens College of the City University
      of New York. 

Robert
      J. Caso.        Mr. Caso
      became Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in March 2005. From
      January 2003 through 2004, he headed a multinational team in connection with
      the
      implementation of an SAP application for Johnson   Johnson s Worldwide
      Pharmaceutical Group. Subsequent to Johnson   Johnson s acquisition of
      Centocor in 1999, Mr. Caso held the Financial Controller position at Centocor.
      From 1988 through 1995 he held various finance positions at Centocor and held
      the Corporate Controller position from 1996 to 1999. Mr. Caso has substantial
      experience in finance operations, accounting systems, business financing and
      domestic and international taxation. Mr. Caso is a Certified Public Accountant
      and holds a BS in Accounting from Villanova University and an MBA in Finance
      from Lehigh University. 

Executive
      officers are chosen by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors,
      subject to any written employment agreements with Cellegy. 

ITEM
      11:        EXECUTIVE
      COMPENSATION   

Information
      with respect to this Item may be found in the section captioned  Executive
      Compensation  appearing in the forthcoming 2006 Proxy Statement and is
      incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM
      12:        SECURITY
      OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
      MATTERS   

Information
      with respect to this Item may be found in the section captioned  Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  appearing in the
      forthcoming 2006 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by
      reference. 

40 

ITEM
      13:        CERTAIN
      RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   

Information
      with respect to this Item may be found in the section captioned  Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions  appearing in the 2006 Proxy Statement
      and is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM
      14:        PRINCIPAL
      ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   

Information
      with respect to this Item may be found in the section captioned  Principal
      Accountant Fees and Services  appearing in the 2006 Proxy Statement and is
      incorporated herein by reference. 

41 

PART IV   

ITEM
      15:        EXHIBITS
      AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

Exhibits  

The
      following exhibits are attached hereto or incorporated herein by
      reference  :

42 

*10.14 

Letter
                agreement dated November 6, 2003 between Cellegy
                Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Richard C. Williams. (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the 2003
                Form 10-K.) 

*10.15 

Stock
                option agreement dated November 6, 2003 between Cellegy
                Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Richard C. Williams. (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the 2003
                Form 10-K.) 

*10.16 

Form of
                Indemnity Agreement between the Company and its directors and executive
                officers. (Incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the Registrant s
                definitive proxy statement filed with the Commission on April 28,
                2004.) 

10.17 

Registration
                Rights Agreement dated as of October 1, 2004 between the Company and
                certain former stockholders of Biosyn, Inc. (Incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K filed October 26,
                2004.) 

*10.18 

Employment
                agreement dated as of October 7, 2004, between the Company and
                Anne-Marie Corner. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to
                the 2004
                Form 10-K.) 

10.19 

Exclusive
                License Agreement for Tostrex dated as of July 9, 2004, by and
                between ProStrakan International Limited and the Company. (Incorporated
                by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004.) (Confidential treatment
                has been requested for portions of this agreement.) 

10.20 

Exclusive
                License and Distribution Agreement for Rectogesic dated as of
                December 9, 2004, by and between ProStrakan International Limited and
                the Company. (Confidential treatment has been requested for portions
                of
                this agreement.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the
                2004
                Form 10-K.) 

10.21 

Agreement
                dated as of October 8, 1996 by and among Biosyn, Inc., Edwin B.
                Michaels and E.B. Michaels Research Associates, Inc.
                (Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to portions
                of
                this agreement.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the
                2004
                Form 10-K.) 

10.22 

Patent
                License Agreement by and among Biosyn, Inc., and certain agencies of
                the United States Public Health Service. (Confidential treatment
                has been
                requested with respect to portions of this agreement.) (Incorporated
                by
                reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the 2004 Form 10-K.) 

10.23 

License
                Agreement dated as of May 22, 2001, by and between Crompton
                Corporation and Biosyn, Inc. (Confidential treatment has been
                requested for portions of this agreement.) Incorporated by reference
                to
                Exhibit 10.23 to the 2004 Form 10-K.) 

10.24 

2005
                Equity Incentive Plan. 

10.25 

Forms
                of Option Agreements under the 2005 Equity Incentive
                Plan. 

10.30 

First
                Amended and Restated Exclusive Equity Agreement dated as of November
                9, 2005, between Cellegy and ProStrakan International Limited.
                (Confidential treatment has been requested for portions of this
                exhibit.) 

10.31 

First
                Amended and Restated Exclusive License Agreement dated as of January
                16,
                2006, between Cellegy and ProStrakan International Limited. (Confidential
                treatment has been requested for portions of this
                exhibit.) 

21.1 

Subsidiaries
                of the Registrant. 

23.1 

Consent
                of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
                Firm. 

24.1 

Power
                of Attorney (See signature page.) 

31.1 

Certification
                of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the
                Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

31.2 

Certification
                of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the
                Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

32.1 

Certification
                of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the
                Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

32.2 

Certification
                of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the
                Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

* 

Represents
                a management contract or compensatory plan or
                arrangement. 

43 

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
      on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of
      Huntingdon Valley, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, on March 30, 2006. 

Cellegy
                Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

By: 

/s/
                  Richard
                C. Williams 

Richard
                C. Williams 

Chairman
                and Interim Chief Executive
                Officer  

Power
      of Attorney  

Each
      person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints each of Richard
      C.
      Williams and Robert J. Caso, true and lawful attorney-in-fact, with the power
      of
      substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign amendments to this
      Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and
      other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange
      Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact,
      or
      his substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue
      thereof. 

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this
      report has been signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the
      dates indicated. 

Name  

Title  

Date  

Principal
                Executive Officer:  

/s/
                  RICHARD
                C. WILLIAMS 

Chairman,
                Interim Chief Executive Officer 

March
                30, 2006 

Richard
                C. Williams 

and
                Director 

Principal
                Financial Officer  

and
                Principal Accounting Officer:  

/s/ROBERT
                J. CASO 

Vice
                President, Finance, Chief Financial 

March
                30, 2006 

Robert
                J. Caso 

Officer
                and Secretary 

Directors:  

/s/
                  JOHN
                Q. ADAMS 

Director 

March
                30, 2006 

John
                Q. Adams, Sr. 

/s/
                  TOBI
                B.KLAR, M.D. 

Director 

March
                30, 2006 

Tobi
                B. Klar, M.D. 

/s/
                  ROBERT
                B. ROTHERMEL 

Director 

March
                30, 2006 

Robert
                B. Rothermel 

/s/
                  THOMAS
                M. STEINBERG 

Director 

March
                30, 2006 

Thomas
                M. Steinberg 

44 

Index
      to Financial Statements    

Page  

Report
                of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

F-2 

Consolidated
                Balance Sheets 

F-3 

Consolidated
                Statements of Operations 

F-4 

Consolidated
                Statements of Stockholders  Deficit 

F-5 

Consolidated
                Statements of Cash Flows 

F-10 

Notes
                to Consolidated Financial Statements 

F-12 

F-1 

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

To
      the
      Board of Directors and Stockholders  

      of
      Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  : 

In
      our
      opinion  ,
        the
        accompanying
      consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statement of
      operations, stockholders' equity (deficit) and comprehensive loss, and cash
      flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
      Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its subsidiaries (a development stage company)
      at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their
      cash  
      flows
      for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, and
      cumulatively, for the period from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2005 in
      conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
      of
      America. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of
      the
      Company's management, our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
      financial statements based on our audits. We did not audit the cumulative totals
      of the Company for the period from June 26, 1989 (date of inception) to December
      31, 2002, which totals reflect a   deficit
      of 64.7 percent  
      of the
      related total cumulative deficit accumulated during the development stage.
      Those
      cumulative totals were audited by other auditors whose report dated February
      13,
      2003, expressed an unqualified opinion on the cumulative amounts. We conducted
      our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
      Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
      that
      we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
      the
      financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
      examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
      in
      the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
      significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
      statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
      for our opinion. 

As
      discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has
      incurred losses from operations since its inception and negative cash flows
      from
      operations that raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a
      going
      concern. Management s plans in regard to these matters are also described in
      Note 1. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments
      that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 

PricewaterhouseCoopers
      LLP 

      March
      30,
      2006 

F-2 

Cellegy
      Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   

       (a
      development stage company)  

Consolidated
      Balance Sheets   

The
        accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
        statements. 

F-3 

Cellegy  Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   

      ( a
      development stage company)  

Consolidated
      Statements of Operations   

The
        accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
        statements. 

F-4 

Cellegy
      Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

       (a
      development stage company)  

Consolidated
      Statements of Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) and Comprehensive
      Loss  

The
        accompanying notes are an integral part of these
        financial statements. 

F-5 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Consolidated
          Statements of Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) and Comprehensive Loss
          (Continued)  

The
        accompanying notes are an integral part of these
        financial statements. 

F-6 

Cellegy
        Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

(a
          development stage company)  

Consolidated
          Statements of Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) and Comprehensive Loss
          (Continued)  

The
        accompanying notes are an integral part of these
        financial statements. 

F-7 

Cellegy
        Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

(a
          development stage company)  

Consolidated
          Statements of Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) and Comprehensive Loss
          (Continued)  

The
        accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
        statements. 

F-8 

Cellegy
            Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

(a
              development stage company)  

Consolidated
              Statements of Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) and Comprehensive Loss
              (Continued)  

The
            accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
            statements. 

F-9 

Cellegy
      Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   

       (a
      development stage company)  

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows        

The
        accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
        statements 

F-10 

Cellegy
      Pharmaceuticals, Inc.   

       (a
      development stage company)  

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows (Continued)   

The
      accompanying notes are an integral part of these
      financial statements 

F-11 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

1.       Accounting
      Policies   

Description
      of Business and Principles of Consolidation  

The
      consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Cellegy
      Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Biosyn, Inc.
      ( Biosyn ), Cellegy Australia Pty, Ltd. and Cellegy Canada, Inc. (collectively
      the  Company  or  Cellegy ). Biosyn was acquired on October 22, 2004. Biosyn s
      results were included in consolidation from its date of acquisition. Cellegy
      Canada, Inc. s operations ceased in the fourth quarter of 2005 with all of the
      subsidiary s assets liquidated. Canada s 2005 results were included in the
      consolidation up until the liquidation. All inter-company balances and
      transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 

Cellegy
      is a development stage specialty biopharmaceutical company, originally
      incorporated in California in 1989 and reincorporated in Delaware in 2004,
      engaged in the development and commercialization of prescription drugs targeting
      primarily women s health care, including the reduction in transmitting of HIV,
      female sexual dysfunction and gastrointestinal conditions using proprietary
      topical formulations and nitric oxide donor technologies. In October 2004,
      Cellegy completed the acquisition of Biosyn which is developing a portfolio
      of
      proprietary product candidates known as microbicides that are used
      intravaginally to reduce transmission of sexually transmitted diseases, or
      STDs,
      including HIV/AIDS. Biosyn s product candidates, which include both
      contraceptive and non-contraceptive microbicides, include Savvy  (C31G vaginal
      gel), which is undergoing Phase 3 clinical trials in the United States and
      Africa; UC-781 vaginal gel, in Phase 1 trials; and Cyanovirin-N, in pre-clinical
      development. 

The
      Company s other products under development, Cellegesic  (nitroglycerin ointment)
      for the treatment of anal fissures and hemorrhoids, and Fortigel  (testosterone
      gel), a replacement therapy for male hypogonadism, have not yet been approved
      for marketing by the United States FDA. However, Cellegesic is currently
      approved for marketing in Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and South Korea
      under the brand name Rectogesic . The product has also been approved by the
      United Kingdom s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency in
      August 2004 for sale in the United Kingdom. Fortigel was approved by the
      Swedish Medical Products Agency in December 2004 for the treatment of male
      hypogonadism under the brand name Tostrex.  

Liquidity
      and Capital Resources   

We
      prepared the financial statements assuming that we will continue as a going
      concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of
      liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. At
      December 31, 2005, we had a deficit accumulated during the development
      stage of $132.3 million, negative cash flows from operations of $96.2 million,
      and cash and cash equivalents of $2.3 million. We expect negative cash flow
      from
      operations to continue for the foreseeable future, with the need to continue
      or
      expand development programs and to commercialize products once regulatory
      approvals have been obtained. We believe we do not have enough financial
      resources to continue operations beyond April 2006. These factors raise
      substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plans,
      with regard to these matters, include raising additional required funds through
      one or more of the following options, among others: sales of assets, seeking
      partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies or private foundations to
      co-develop and fund our research and development efforts, pursuing additional
      out-licensing arrangements with third parties, re-licensing and monetizing
      in
      the near term our future milestone and royalty payments expected from existing
      licensees and seeking equity or debt financing. In addition, we will continue
      to
      implement further cost reduction programs and reduce discretionary spending,
      if
      necessary. 

There
      is
      no assurance that any of the above options will be implemented on a timely
      basis
      or that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms,
      if
      at all. Alternatively, we may be required to accept less than favorable
      commercial terms in any such future arrangements. If adequate funds are not
      available on acceptable terms, we could be required to delay development or
      commercialization of certain products, to license to third parties the rights
      to
      commercialize certain products that we would otherwise seek to commercialize
      internally or to reduce resources devoted to product development. In addition,
      if we do not receive all, or a portion, of the planned Biosyn grant funding,
      or
      if such funding is delayed, this could impact our ability to complete our Biosyn
      development programs on a timely basis, if at all. The financial statements
      do
      not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this
      uncertainty. Any failure to dispel any continuing doubts about our ability
      to
      continue as a going concern could adversely affect out ability to enter into
      collaborative relationships with business partners, make it more difficult
      to
      obtain required financing on favorable terms or at all, negatively affect the
      market price of our common stock and could otherwise have a material adverse
      effect on our business, financial condition and results of
      operations. 

F-12 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

Use
      of Estimates  

The
      preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
      management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
      of
      assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities
      at
      the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and
      expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
      estimates. 

Revenue
      Recognition  

Revenues
      related to cost reimbursement provisions under development contracts are
      recognized as the costs associated with the projects are incurred. Revenues
      related to substantive and at risk non-refundable milestone payments specified
      under development contracts are recognized as the milestones are achieved.
      The
      Company receives certain government and non-government grants that support
      the
      Company s research effort in defined research projects. These grants generally
      provide for reimbursement of approved costs incurred as defined in the various
      grants. Revenues associated with these grants are recognized as costs under
      each
      grant are incurred. Advanced payments received under these agreements prior
      to
      completion of the related work are recorded as deferred revenue until earned.
      Should the research funded by federal grants result in patented technologies,
      the federal government would be entitled to a nonexclusive, nontransferable,
      irrevocable, paid-up license to utilize such technologies. 

At
      December 31, 2005, $759,906 of grants receivable under research and
      development agreements were unbilled. These amounts represent future billings
      by
      the Company for reimbursement of expenses funded by grants previously recorded
      in grant revenue. Unbilled grants at December 31, 2004 were
      $833,630. 

Revenues
      related to product sales are recognized when title has been transferred to
      the
      customer and when all of the following criteria are met: a persuasive evidence
      of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or service has been rendered,
      the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.
      There is no right of return for our products. 

Revenues
      under license and royalty agreements are recognized in the period the earnings
      process is completed based on the terms of the specific agreement. Advanced
      payments received under these agreements are recorded as deferred revenue at
      the
      time the payment is received and are subsequently recognized as revenue on
      a
      straight-line basis over the longer of the life of the agreement or the life
      of
      the underlying patent. 

Royalties
      payable to Cellegy under these license agreements will be recognized as earned
      when the royalties are no longer refundable under certain minimum royalty terms
      defined in the agreement.  

Research
      and Development  

Research
      and Development expenses, which include clinical study payments made to clinical
      sites and clinical research organizations, consulting fees, expenses associated
      with regulatory filings and internally allocated expenses such as rent, supplies
      and utilities are charged to expense as they are incurred. Clinical study
      expenses are accrued based upon such factors as the number of subjects enrolled
      and number of subjects that have completed treatment for each
      trial. 

F-13 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

Milestone
      payments that are made upon the occurrence of future contractual events prior
      to
      receipt of applicable regulatory approvals are charged to research and
      development expense. The Company may capitalize and amortize certain future
      milestones and other payments subsequent to the receipt of applicable regulatory
      approvals, if any. 

Cash
      and Cash Equivalents  

Cash
      and
      cash equivalents consist of demand deposits and highly liquid financial
      instruments with original maturities of three months or less. The carrying
      value
      of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value at December 31, 2005
      and 2004. The Company s cash and cash equivalents are maintained at two
      financial institutions in the United States, and one financial institution
      in
      Australia. Deposits in these financial institutions may, from time to time,
      exceed federally insured limits. 

Short
      Term Investments  

The
      Company considers all of its investments as available-for-sale securities and
      reports these investments at their estimated fair market value using available
      market information. Unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities
      are included in stockholders  deficit as other comprehensive income (loss) until
      their disposition. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific
      identification method. 

Realized
      gains or losses and declines in value deemed to be other than temporary on
      available-for-sale securities are included in other income or
      expense. 

Restricted
      Cash  

Cash
      held
      by financial institutions to secure a letter of credit related to the Company s
      long-term lease was classified as restricted cash and was shown separately
      in
      the balance sheet as a non-current asset. In 2005 the lease was terminated
      and
      the letter of credit cancelled.  

Concentration
      of Credit Risk  

At
      December 31, 2005, the Company had its cash in money market funds.

Property
      and Equipment  

Property
      and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation
      and
      amortization of property and equipment is computed using the straight-line
      method over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets. 

Estimated Useful Life  

Furniture
                and fixtures 

3
                years 

Office
                equipment 

3
                years 

Laboratory
                equipment 

5
                years 

Amortization
      for leasehold improvements and equipment held under capital leases is taken
      over
      the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the remaining lease
      term. Upon sale or retirement, the asset s cost and related accumulated
      depreciation are removed from the accounts and the related gain or loss is
      reflected in operations. 

Goodwill
      and Intangible Assets  

Goodwill
      represents the difference between the purchase price and the estimated fair
      value of the net assets acquired when accounted for by the purchase method
      of
      accounting. In accordance with FAS 142,  Goodwill and Intangible Assets , we do
      not amortize goodwill. Management reviews goodwill for impairment either on
      an
      annual basis or quarterly if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value
      of
      the long-lived asset below its carrying value. All other long-lived and
      intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances
      indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be     recoverable.
      An impairment loss would be recognized based on the difference between the
      carrying value of the asset and its estimated fair value, which would be
      determined based on either discounted future cash flows or other appropriate
      fair value methods. The evaluation of goodwill and other intangibles for
      impairment requires management to use significant judgments and estimates
      including, but not limited to, projected future revenue, operating results
      and
      cash flows. 

F-14 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

SFAS
      No. 142 also requires that intangible assets with definite lives be
      amortized over their estimated useful lives. The Company amortizes intangible
      assets on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.  

Impairment
      of Long Lived Assets  

The
      Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes
      in
      business conditions indicate that these carrying values may not be recoverable
      in the ordinary course of business. When such an event occurs, management
      determines whether there has been impairment by comparing the anticipated
      undiscounted future net cash flows to the related asset s carrying value. If an
      asset is considered impaired, the asset is written down to fair value, which
      is
      determined based either on discounted cash flows or appraised value, depending
      on the nature of the asset.  

Foreign
      Currency Translation  

The
      foreign subsidiaries  functional currencies are their local currencies. The
      gains and losses resulting from translating the foreign subsidiaries  financial
      statements into United States dollars have been reported in other comprehensive
      income (loss).  

Comprehensive
      Income (Loss)   

Comprehensive
      income (loss) generally represents all changes in stockholders  deficit except
      those resulting from investments or contributions by stockholders. The Company s
      unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities and foreign
      currency translation adjustments represent the only components of comprehensive
      loss that are excluded from the Company s net loss. Total accumulated other
      comprehensive income consists of the following: 

Stock-Based
      Compensation  

The
      Company accounts for its stock option grants in accordance with Accounting
      Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees 
( APB 25 ) and related Interpretations. The Company has elected to follow the
      disclosure-only alternative prescribed by SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for
      Stock-Based Compensation , as amended by SFAS No. 148  Accounting for
      Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure . Under APB 25, compensation
      expense is based on the difference, if any, on the date of the grant between
      the
      fair value of the Company s common stock and the option s exercise
      price. 

F-15 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

Had
      compensation cost for the Company s stock-based compensation plans been
      determined in a manner consistent with the fair value approach described in
      SFAS
      No. 123, the Company s pro forma net loss and net loss per share as
      reported would have been increased to the pro forma amounts indicated
      below: 

The
      Company valued its options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
      valuation model with the following weighted average assumptions: 

The
      weighted average per share grant date fair value of options granted during
      the
      years ended     December 31,
      2005, 2004, and 2003 was     $1.81,     $4.37
      and
      $3.28 respectively  . 

The
      Company accounts for equity instruments issued to non-employees in accordance
      with the provisions of SFAS No. 123 and Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF )
      Issue No. 96-18,  Accounting for Equity Instruments That Are Issued to
      Other Than Employees for Acquiring, or in Conjunction with Selling, Goods or
      Services.  Under EITF Issue No. 96-18, the fair value of the equity
      instrument is calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model at each
      reporting period with charges amortized to the results of operations over the
      instrument s vesting period. 

Recent
      Accounting Pronouncements  

In
      December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R,  Share-Based
      Payment , which replaces SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 123R requires public
      companies to recognize an expense for share-based payment arrangements including
      stock options and employee stock purchase plans. The statement eliminates a
      company s ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using APB
      25, and generally requires instead that such transactions be accounted for
      using
      a fair value based method. SFAS No. 123R requires an entity to measure the
      cost of employee services received in exchanged for an award of equity
      instruments based on the fair value of the award on the date of the grant,
      and
      to recognize the cost over the period during which the employee is to provide
      service in exchange for the award. SFAS No. 123R is effective for public
      companies with a fiscal year that begins after June 15, 2005. The cumulative
      effect of this pronouncement when adopted by the Company, applied on a modified
      prospective basis, would be measured and recognized starting the first quarter
      of 2006. We anticipate that the impact of adopting SFAS No. 123R will result
      in
      an annual expense of approximately $292,000 based on known grants. Upon adoption
      of SFAS No. 123R, companies are allowed to select one of three alternative
      transition methods. Management is currently evaluating the transition methods,
      as well as valuation methodologies and assumptions for employee stock options
      in
      light of SFAS No. 123R. Current estimates of option values using the
      Black-Scholes method (as shown under  Stock Based Compensation ) may not be
      indicative of results from valuation methodologies ultimately implemented by
      the
      Company upon adoption of SFAS No. 123R. 

F-16 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

In
      May
      2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a
      replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 . The statement
      requires retrospective application of changes in accounting principle to prior
      periods  financial statements, unless it is impracticable to determine either
      the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. When it
      is
      impracticable to determine the period specific effects of an accounting change
      on one or more individual prior periods presented, this statement requires
      that
      the new accounting principle be applied to the balances of assets and
      liabilities as of the beginning of the earliest period for which retrospective
      application is practicable, and that a corresponding adjustment be made to
      the
      opening balance of the retained earnings for that period rather than being
      reported in the income statement. The statement also requires that a change
      in
      depreciation, amortization, or depletion method for long-lived, non-financial
      assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate affected by a change
      in accounting principle. This pronouncement is effective for accounting changes
      made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not
      believe adoption of SFAS 154 will have a material effect on its consolidated
      financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Basic
      and Diluted Net Loss per Common Share  

Basic
      net
      loss per common share is computed using the weighted average number of common
      shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per common share
      incorporates the incremental shares issued upon the assumed exercise of stock
      options and warrants, when dilutive. There is no difference between basic and
      diluted net loss per common share, as presented in the statement of operations,
      because all options and warrants are anti-dilutive. The total number of shares
      that had their impact excluded were: 

Excluded
      also are 2,121,212 shares that would be issuable upon conversion of the PDI
      Notes (see also Note 16). 

2.       Accounts
      Receivable    

Accounts
      receivable consists of the following: 

F-17 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

3.       Short-term
      Investments   

At
      December 31, 2005, the Company had an investment in Marketable Securities of
      approximately $11,000. In January 2006 the investment was liquidated realizing
      a
      gain of approximated $8,500. At December 31, 2004, the Company had no
      investments.  

4.
      Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets  

At
      December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 this account includes the
      following: 

Inventories
      are valued at the lower of cost or market. As of December 31, 2005, Cellegy
      had
      inventory of $257,000 located in Canada and $94,000 in Australia. All of
      Cellegy s Canadian inventory was sold in January 2006 for
      $257,000.  

5.       Intangible
      Assets, net  

The
      Company s intangible assets and related accumulated amortization at
      December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, were as
      follows: 

Subsequent
      to the purchase of Biosyn in 2004, several of its key people left the Company
      in
      2005. Their departure required the reduction in the carrying value of the work
      force in place intangible asset recorded in 2004. Estimating the fair market
      value of the key people remaining resulted in an impairment of the asset as
      of
      December 31, 2005 of approximately $254,000. This amount was recognized as
      impairment expense in the fourth quarter of 2005. 

In
      2005,
      Cellegy Canada, Inc. was liquidated and the intangible asset for the Vaxis
      non-compete agreement was fully amortized. The $50,000 decrease in goodwill
      in
      2005 is due to changes in foreign currency. 

Amortization
      recorded for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were
      approximately $324,000, $111,000 and $176,000, respectively.  

F-18 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

Estimated
      amortization expense for each of the three years ended December 31, 2006
      through 2008 is as follows: 

6.         Property
      and Equipment, net  

Property
      and equipment, net consist of the following:  

Depreciation
      expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was
      $360,000, $420,000 and 370,000 respectively. In March 2005, the Company
      relocated its South San Francisco offices to Brisbane, California. At that
      time
      all leasehold improvements and some office equipment were left at the facility.
      The Company received cash from the subsequent tenant for these items which
      was
      recognized as a net gain of approximately $484,000 on disposal of fixed assets.
      In December 2005, the Company also wrote off assets for production equipment
      and
      leasehold improvements for production facilities. The loss on the disposal
      of
      these fixed assets for the year 2005 was approximately $324,000 and $105,000
      respectively. 

7    .       Accrued
      Expenses and Other Current Liabilities  

The
      Company accrues for goods and services received but for which billings have
      not
      been received. Accrued expenses and other current liabilities at December 31,
      2005 and 2004 were as follows: 

F-19 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

8. 
      Notes Payable  

Ben
      Franklin Note  

Included
      in notes payables is a note issued by Biosyn to Ben Franklin Technology Center
      of Southeastern Pennsylvania ( Ben Franklin Note ) in October 1992 for funds
      provided by Ben Franklin for the development of a compound to prevent
      transmission of AIDS.   

The
      note
      is recorded at its estimated fair value of $205,000 and was assumed by Cellegy
      in connection with its acquisition of Biosyn. The repayment terms of the
      non-interest bearing obligation include the remittance of an annual fixed
      percentage of 3% applied to future revenues of Biosyn, if any, until the
      principal balance of $777,902 is satisfied. Under the terms of the obligation,
      revenues are defined to exclude the value of unrestricted research and
      development funding received by Biosyn from non-profit sources. There is no
      obligation to repay the amounts in the absence of future Biosyn revenues. The
      Company will accrete the discount of $572,902 to earnings using the interest
      rate method over the discount period of five years, which was estimated in
      connection with the note s valuation at the time of the acquisition.

PDI
      Notes  

The
      notes
      were issued in April 2005 by Cellegy to PDI, Inc. ( PDI ) pursuant to a lawsuit
      settlement agreement signed by both parties in April 2005. The terms of the
      notes issued to PDI are as follows: 

The
      $3.0 million secured promissory note has an outstanding balance of $2.8 million
      and a net present value of $2.5 million at December 31, 2005 and is payable
      in
      October 2006. There is no stated interest rate and no periodic payments are
      required.  Cellegy is required to make current payments on the note to the
      extent of (i) 50% of licensing fees, royalties or milestone payment, (or, in
      each case, these payments in the nature thereof )received by Cellegy with
      respect to any of Cellegy s agreements or arrangements with respect to
      Tostrex  
      or
      Rectogesic  
      products
      in territories outside of North America, and (ii) 50% of licensing fees,
      royalties or milestone payments (or, in each case, other payments in the nature
      thereof) received by Cellegy with respect to any of Cellegy s agreements or
      arrangements with respect to Fortigel in North American markets. These
      payments are required to be made to PDI within two business days after Cellegy
      receives the payments. Cellegy s obligations under the note are secured by a
      security interest in favor of PDI, which is reflected in a security agreement
      between Cellegy and PDI, in Cellegy s interests in the payments described above
      and any proceeds therefrom (and certain related collateral). In addition,
      Cellegy is required to make payments on the $3.0 million note with respect
      to
      10% of proceeds received by Cellegy in excess of $5.0 million from financing
      transactions. Payments made in 2005 totaled $200,000. 

Amounts
      owed under the note may be accelerated upon an event of default, which is
      defined to include, but not limited to, any of the following: Cellegy s failure
      to pay any amounts owed under the note when due; certain kinds of bankruptcy
      filings or certain related actions or proceedings; any breach of any of
      Cellegy s covenants, conditions or agreements in the note or security agreement
      following notice from PDI that remains uncured for 30 days; the security
      interest no longer being a valid, perfected, first priority security interest;
      and a default in indebtedness of Cellegy with an aggregate principal amount
      in
      excess of $2.0 million that results in the maturity of such indebtedness being
      accelerated before its stated maturity. The net present value of collateralized
      $3.0 million note will be recalculated based on its remaining principal whenever
      a payment is made by Cellegy. Cellegy made a $100,000 payment to PDI in October
      2005 shortly after the due date specified in the secured note and has paid
      interest to PDI on that amount.  

The
      $3.5
      million non-negotiable senior convertible debenture was recorded at a net
      present value of $2.5 million as of December 31, 2005 and has a maturity date
      of
      April 11, 2008, three years from the PDI settlement date of April 11, 2005.
      There is no stated interest rate and no periodic payments are required. Cellegy
      may redeem the note at anytime before the maturity date upon prior notice to
      PDI, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount. If Cellegy delivers
      such a redemption notice, PDI may convert the note into shares of Cellegy common
      stock at a price of $1.65 per share. In addition, after the 18th month
      anniversary of the debenture, PDI may convert the note into Cellegy common
      stock
      at a price of $1.65 per share. If Cellegy does not redeem the note within the
      first 18 months, then Cellegy has agreed to file a registration statement
      relating to the possible resale of any shares issued to PDI after 18 months.
      2,121,212 shares would be issuable upon such conversion. As long as amounts
      are
      owed under the note, Cellegy has agreed not to incur or become responsible
      for
      any indebtedness that ranks contractually senior or pari passu in right of
      payment to amounts outstanding under the note. Events of default under the
      senior note are generally similar to events of default under the secured
      note. 

F-20 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

Cellegy
      has classified the notes as current for financial reporting purposes
      because of the payments expected to be made within the next year and due to
      other uncertainties noted above. In addition, on December 1, 2005 the company
      received a notice from PDI, Inc. notifying the company that PDI considers
      Cellegy in default of the secured promissory note and the non-negotiable
      convertible senior note which were part of the settlement entered into between
      Cellegy and PDI on April 11, 2005. PDI s notice states that PDI believes that
      Cellegy is in material breach of the secured promissory note as a result of
      Cellegy s failure to notify PDI of the receipt of certain payments and of
      Cellegy s failure to pay amounts to which PDI believes it is entitled.

In
      November 2005, Cellegy renegotiated its Exclusive License and Distribution
      Agreement with ProStrakan Group Limited ( ProStrakan )relating to Rectogesic.
      Under the renegotiated agreement, ProStrakan assumed all responsibility for
      manufacturing and product support functions and will purchase the product
      directly from the manufacturer rather than purchasing from Cellegy under the
      terms of the original agreement. In return, ProStrakan paid Cellegy $2.0
      million. PDI claims that it is entitled to $1.0 million of that payment. Cellegy
      does not agree that the payment made by ProStrakan falls within the definition
      of  Pledged Collateral  in the settlement agreement and related documents and
      does not believe that any amount is owed to PDI as a result of such payments.
      The Company plans to vigorously defend itself against such claims. 

The
      Company accretes interest and principal to the PDI notes using a rate of 15%
      using the effective interest rate method. 

The
      Ben
      Franklin note has a face value of $778,000 and net present value of $205,000
      at
      December 31, 2005.  The note has no scheduled repayment term.  Payment
      is based on 3% of Biosyn s revenues excluding research and development
      grants. 

At
      December 31, 2005, future minimum payments on the above notes were payable
      as
      follows (in thousands): 

F-21 

Cellegy
        Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

         (a
        development stage company)  

Notes
        to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)  

9. 
      Equity Financing  

On
      May
      12, 2005, Cellegy raised approximately $5.7 million after offering expenses
      in a
      private placement of its common stock and warrants to existing and new
      institutional and individual investors.  The transaction consisted of the
      sale of approximately 3,621,819 shares of common stock and the issuance of
      Class
      A Warrants to purchase approximately 714,362 shares of common stock at an
      exercise price of $2.25 per share.  The Class A Warrants can be called if
      the Company s common stock trades for 20 consecutive days over $5.00. The
      Company also issued Class B Warrants to purchase approximately 714,362 shares
      of
      common stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per share.  Class A and B
      Warrants can be called by the Company if the Company s closing bid price of a
      share of Common Stock equals or exceeds $5.00 or $5.50, respectively, for any
      twenty (20) consecutive trading days commencing after the Registration Statement
      has been declared effective at a redemption price equal to $0.01 per share
      of
      common stock.  Three directors of Cellegy purchased a total of 50,000
      shares in the offering at the closing market price of the common stock on the
      date of the transaction for $2.13 per share.  The directors did not receive
      any warrants. The purchase price for shares purchased by the non-director
      investors was $1.65 per share.  Pursuant to the transaction agreements, the
      Company has filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities
      and
      Exchange Commission, which was declared effective on July 8, 2005, covering
      the
      possible resale of the shares from time to time in the future. 

10.
      Derivative Instruments  

The
      warrants are revalued at the end of each reporting period as long as they remain
      outstanding. The estimated fair value of all warrants, using the Black-Scholes
      valuation model, recorded as derivative liability at December 31, 2005 and
      December 31, 2004 was $193,000 and $411,000. The changes in the estimated fair
      value of the warrants have been recorded as other income and expense in the
      income statement. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004,
      the Company recognized $689,000 and $390,000 respectively as other income from
      derivative revaluation.  

11.
          Deferred
      Revenue   

Current
      and long-term deferred revenue totaling $3.4 million at December 31, 2005
      and $15.1 million at December 31, 2004 represents the remaining unamortized
      and unearned portion of upfront licensing fees received from licensees for
      the
      right to store, promote, sell and /or distribute the Company s products. These
      amounts include $6.5 million in income recognition as a result of the PDI
      settlement in April 2005 with the remaining balances being amortized into income
      over the life of the licensing agreement or the life of the patent for the
      product being licensed, whichever is longer.  

12.
      Commitments and Contingencies   

Operating
      Leases  

The
      Company leases its facilities and certain equipment under non-cancelable
      operating leases. Rent expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over the
      term of the lease. During the third quarter of 2002, the Company subleased
      a
      portion of its facility. Rental income is recorded on a straight-line basis
      over
      the term of the sublease. The sublease was terminated in 2005 and the rental
      income ceased as of the termination. Future minimum lease payments at
      December 31, 2005, are as follows: 

F-22 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

Rent
      expense, net of sublease income, was $269,000, $382,000, and $336,000 for the
      years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The Company
      received $93,000, $149,000 and $148,000 in sublease income, which is reflected
      in other income (expense), during the year ended December 31, 2005, 2004
      and 2003, respectively.  

Capital
      Leases  

Included
      in property, plant and equipment is laboratory equipment and computer equipment
      under long-term leases of $107,000, with related accumulated depreciation of
      $53,000 which included an option to purchase the assets for a nominal cost
      at
      the termination of the lease. There were no capital lease assets and
      amortization     expenses
      prior to the Biosyn acquisition. Future minimum lease payments for assets under
      capital leases at December 31, 2005 are as follows: 

Other
      Agreements  

In
      December 1997, the Company acquired patent and related intellectual
      property rights relating to Cellegesic, a topical product candidate for the
      treatment of anal fissures and hemorrhoids from Neptune Pharmaceuticals
      Corporation. The agreement calls for a series of additional payments, payable
      in
      shares of common stock, upon successful completion of various development
      milestones. Upon completion of certain milestones in 2001 and 2004, the Company
      issued 104,113 and 204,918 shares of common stock, respectively, valued at
      $750,000 for each of those milestones. These were charged to research and
      development expense. The remaining milestones, if achieved, would become payable
      over the next several years. 

On
      November 27, 2001, Cellegy acquired Vaxis Therapeutics Corporation
      ( Vaxis ), a private Canadian company. The Vaxis purchase agreement contains
      earn-out provisions through 2008 that are based on commercial sales of any
      products developed by the Company or other revenues generated from the acquired
      research. There have been no earn-out payments made under this agreement through
      December 31, 2005. In 2005, Canadian operations were terminated and its
      assets were liquidated.  

Legal
      Proceedings  

In
        October 2003, the Company received a communication from PDI invoking
        mediation procedures under its exclusive license agreement with PDI relating
        to
        Fortigel. After mediation was completed in December 2003, both PDI and
        Cellegy initiated litigation proceedings against each other. Cellegy filed
        a
        declaratory judgment action in federal district court in San Francisco against
        PDI, and PDI initiated an action in federal district court in New York against
        Cellegy.  

On
        April
        11, 2005, Cellegy entered into a settlement agreement with PDI resolving
        the
        lawsuits that the companies had filed against each other.  Under the terms
        of the settlement agreement, the license agreement was terminated and all
        product rights reverted to Cellegy.    Under
        the
        settlement agreement, the previous license agreement was terminated and all
        product rights reverted to Cellegy. Cellegy paid $2 million to PDI upon signing
        the settlement agreement. 

Cellegy
        also issued a $3.0 million Secured Promissory Note to PDI, payable in 18
        months,
        with earlier payments of amounts owed under the note required to be made
        to the
        extent of  50% of licensing fees, royalties or milestone payments (or, in
        each case, other payments in the nature thereof) received by Cellegy under
        Cellegy s agreements or arrangements with respect to Cellegy s Tostrex 
(testosterone gel) and Rectogesic  (nitroglycerin ointment) products in
        territories outside of North America, and 50% of licensing fees, royalties
        or
        milestone payments (or, in each case, other payments in the nature thereof)
        received by Cellegy under Cellegy s agreements or arrangements with respect to
        Fortigel licensees in North American markets. These payments are required
        to be made to PDI within two business days after Cellegy receives the
        payments.  These various payments will be made until the amount owed
        under the note is paid in full.  Cellegy s obligations under the note are
        secured by a security interest in favor of PDI, which is reflected in a security
        agreement between Cellegy and PDI, in Cellegy s interests in the payments
        described above and any proceeds there from (and certain related
        collateral).  In addition, Cellegy is required to make payments on the $3.0
        million note with respect to 10% of proceeds received by Cellegy in excess
        of $5 million from financing transactions. Payments made in 2005 totaled
        $200,000. Amounts owed under the note may be accelerated upon an event of
        default, which include (but are not limited to) certain kinds of bankruptcy
        filings or certain related actions or proceedings, an   uncured
        material breach of Cellegy s obligations under the note, the security interest
        no longer being a valid, perfected, first priority security interest, and
        a
        default in indebtedness of Cellegy with an aggregate principal amount in
        excess
        of $2 million that results in the maturity of such indebtedness being
        accelerated before its stated maturity. Cellegy made a $100,000 payment to
        PDI
        in October 2005 shortly after the due date specified in the secured note
        and has
        paid interest to PDI on that amount. Cellegy also issued to PDI a $3.5 million
        principal amount Convertible Senior Note due April 11, 2008.  Cellegy may
        redeem the note at any time before the maturity date upon not less than 30
        or
        more than 60 days notice to PDI, at a redemption price equal to the principal
        amount; if Cellegy delivers such a redemption notice, PDI may convert the
        note
        into shares of Cellegy common stock at a price of $1.65 per share.   In
        addition, after the 18 month anniversary of the debenture, PDI may convert
        the
        note into Cellegy common stock at a price of $1.65 per share.   If Cellegy
        does redeem the note within the first 18 months; then Cellegy has agreed
        to file
        a registration statement relating to possible resale of any shares issued
        to PDI
        after 18 months. 2,121,212 shares would be issuable upon
        such conversion.  As long as amounts are owed under the note, Cellegy
        has agreed not to incur or become responsible for any indebtedness that ranks
        contractually senior or pari passu in right of payment to amounts outstanding
        under the note.  Events of default under the senior note are generally
        similar to events of default under the secured note. 

F-23 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

13.
      401(k) Plan   

The
      Company maintains a savings and retirement plan under
      Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. All employees are
      eligible to participate on the first day of the calendar quarter following
      three
      months of employment with the Company. Under the plan, employees may contribute
      up to 15% of salaries per year subject to statutory limits. The Company provides
      a matching contribution equal to 25% of the employee s rate of contribution, up
      to a maximum contribution rate of 4% of the employee s annual salary. Expenses
      related to the plan for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
      were not significant. 

14.
      Acquisitions   

Biosyn
      Acquisition  

On
      October 22, 2004, Cellegy completed its 100% acquisition of Biosyn,
      developer of a contraceptive gel product for the reduction in transmission
      of
      HIV/AIDS in women. The acquisition was accounted for as an acquisition of assets
      as the operations of Biosyn did not meet the definition of a business as defined
      in Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 98-3  Determining Whether a
      Nonmonetary Transaction Involves Receipt of Productive Assets or of a Business .
      Assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their estimated fair
      values. The value of the merger consideration, including certain acquisition
      and
      closing costs, exceeded the fair value of the net assets acquired. In accordance
      with paragraph 9 of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , such excess was allocated among the
      relative fair values of the assets acquired. Amounts allocated to identifiable
      intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Amounts
      allocated to purchased research and development were expensed immediately.
      Under
      the terms of the acquisition, 12,000 preferred shares and 5,031,267 shares
      of
      Biosyn common stock outstanding at the closing of the acquisition were exchanged
      for approximately 2,462,000 shares of Cellegy s common stock. Cellegy also
      liquidated approximately $3.5 million of Biosyn s debt at the time of the
      acquisition.  

In
      addition, outstanding Biosyn stock options and warrants were assumed by Cellegy
      and converted into options and warrants to purchase 318,504 shares of Cellegy
      common stock. The options issued to acquire Cellegy common stock are fully
      vested and exercisable. The exercise prices of the options and warrants were
      adjusted by the exchange ratio in the transaction. The expiration date and
      other
      terms of the converted options and warrants remain the same. 

The
      purchase price is as follows: 

The
      total
      purchase price above does not include any provisions for contingent milestone
      payments of up to $15.0 million, which would be payable to Biosyn shareholders
      on the achievement of C31G marketing approval in the United States and a portion
      of which will be payable upon commercial launch in major overseas
      markets. 

The
      fair
      value of the Cellegy shares used in determining the purchase price was $4.26
      per
      common share. The fair value of the converted options and warrants issued by
      Cellegy was determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model assuming
      a
      market price of $4.26 per share, exercise prices ranging from $0.06 to
      $21.02     per
      share
      and averaging $5.89 per share, expected lives ranging from 0.2 to 4.3 years
      and
      averaging 3.7 years, risk free interest rates ranging from 1.50% to 3.36% and
      averaging 3.13%, and volatility ranging from 27% to 92% and averaging
      77%. 

The
      allocation of purchase price at the acquisition date of October 22, 2004 is
      as follows: 

F-25 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

The
      purchase price allocation was based on the estimated fair values of the assets
      and liabilities assumed at the date of the closing of the
      acquisition. 

The
      results of the valuation of the purchased research and development was $17.0
      million using primarily the income approach and applying risk-adjusted discount
      rates to the estimated future revenues and expenses attributable to in-process
      drug development programs. The most significant in-process program relates
      primarily to the development of a microbacidal vaginal gel, which may have
      the
      potential to prevent HIV / AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases in
      women. This product candidate, called Savvy  (C31G vaginal gel), has an
      estimated fair value of $15.4 million. Two other development programs, called
      UC-781 and Cyanovirin-N, have a combined estimated fair value of $1.6 million.
      The in-process C31G program requires significant additional scientific and
      clinical testing which for purposes of this valuation is expected to be
      completed in the second half of 2006 with cash inflows from product sales in
      the
      United States forecasted to begin in 2007, assuming no unforeseen adverse events
      or delays and assuming that regulatory approvals are obtained. The C31G Phase
      3
      clinical trials are approximately 40% complete based on cost and patient
      enrollment. The UC-781 and Cyanovirin-N development programs are at a much
      earlier stage than C31G. Additional manufacturing optimization and development
      expenses associated with completing the clinical trials, as well as legal and
      regulatory expenses relating to the drug approval process, will be required
      to
      gain marketing acceptance. 

The
      primary risk in completing the projects is the successful completion of the
      clinical testing and the regulatory review process. This process is time
      consuming and expensive, subject to significant challenges and risks before
      the
      products can be approved and commercialized. The Company must demonstrate
      product safety and efficacy to standards agreed to with regulatory authorities.
      Unsuccessful clinical results or delays in the approval process could have
      significant consequences, jeopardizing marketing launch of the product resulting
      in lower potential revenues and lowered economic returns. 

Under
      the
      income approach, value is based on the calculation of the present value of
      future economic benefits to be derived from the ownership of the assets,
      analyzing the earnings potential of the in-process development programs while
      factoring in the underlying risk associated with obtaining those earnings.
      Value
      indications were developed by discounting future net cash flows to their present
      value using market-based rates of return. For C31G, discount rates ranging
      from
      34% - 37% were applied to cash flows with an additional approximate 52%
      probability applied to the cash flows representing, for purposes of this
      valuation, the estimated probability of the C31G Phase 3 trials beings
      successful and ultimately receiving FDA approval in the United States. These
      factors are commensurate with the overall risk and percent complete of the
      C31G
      program. Because of the earlier development stage of the UC-781 and Cyanovirin-N
      in-process programs, the primary valuation     method
      used for these potential products was the current transaction approach. This
      uses management s estimated value of the consideration paid for the
      acquisition. 

Management
      has concluded that technological feasibility of the purchased in-process
      research and development has not yet been reached and that the technology had
      only limited alternative future uses, if any. Accordingly, the amount allocated
      to purchased research and development was charged to the statement of
      operations. In addition to the income and the current transaction approaches,
      other methodologies including the cost and comparable transaction approaches,
      were considered to validate the results obtained. These other approaches were,
      however, given a minor weighting in achieving the valuations. The results of
      these approaches do not necessarily indicate what a third party would be willing
      to pay to acquire the in-process projects. 

An
      aggregate amount of $15.0 million was allocated to purchased research and
      development. The estimated fair the value of the purchased research and
      development was reduced by $2.0 million of the amount by which fair value of
      the
      net asset acquired exceeded the value of the acquisition consideration. The
      Company recorded a non-cash charge to operations in the fourth quarter of 2004
      of $15.0 million for the purchased research and development. 

F-26 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

The
      acquisition was completed on October 22, 2004 and Biosyn s results of
      operations subsequent to that date are included in the Company s consolidated
      statements of operations. The Company has prepared unaudited pro forma financial
      information showing revenues and net loss for the combined entity for the years
      ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, as if the merger occurred
      as of the beginning of those periods. The following unaudited pro forma
      financial information is not intended to represent or be indicative of the
      consolidated results of operations of the Company that would have been reported
      had the acquisition been completed as of the dates presented and should not
      be
      taken as representative of the future consolidated results of operations or
      financial condition of the Company  . 

15.
      License and Other Agreements   

Cellegy  

In
      December 2002, Cellegy entered into a license agreement, or the PDI
      Agreement, with PDI, Inc., or PDI, granting PDI the exclusive right to
      store, promote, sell and distribute Fortigel in North American markets. Cellegy
      received an upfront payment of $15.0 million on the effective date of
      December 31, 2002 with an additional $10.0 million payable no later than
      thirty days after the Company certifies to PDI that Fortigel has received all
      FDA approvals required to manufacture, sell and distribute the product in the
      United States. The Company recorded costs of $947,000 to selling, general and
      administrative expenses associated with an investment banking fee for the year
      ended December 31, 2002 related to the PDI Agreement. Under the PDI
      Agreement, the Company would also receive royalties each year until the
      expiration of the last patent right related to Fortigel of 20% - 30% of net
      sales and the Company would be reimbursed for 110% of burdened costs for any
      product supplied to PDI. In April 2005, pursuant to a settlement with PDI
      concerning litigation initiated in December of 2003, the companies terminated
      their agreement and all rights to Fortigel reverted back to Cellegy. See also
      Note 12. 

In
      July 2004, Cellegy and ProStrakan entered into to an exclusive license
      agreement for the future commercialization of Tostrex  (testosterone gel) in
      Europe. Under the terms of the agreement, ProStrakan will be responsible for
      regulatory filings, sales, marketing and distribution of Tostrex throughout
      the
      European Union and in certain nearby non-EU countries. Under the original
      agreement, the Company was responsible for supplying finished product to
      ProStrakan through Cellegy s contract manufacturer. Assuming successful
      commercial launch, Cellegy could receive up to $5.75 million in total payments
      including a $500,000 non-refundable upfront payment made in July 2004, and
      a royalty on net sales of Tostrex. The advanced payment received by the Company
      was recorded as deferred revenue to be amortized to income over eighteen years,
      which represents the estimated life of the underlying patent. 

In
      January 2006, Cellegy amended its 2004 agreement with ProStrakan concerning
      Tostrex. Under the terms of the amended agreement, ProStrakan will assume
      responsibility for all manufacturing and other product support functions and
      will purchase Tostrex directly from Cellegy s contract manufacturer rather than
      purchasing the product from Cellegy under the terms of the original agreement.
      Cellegy will continue to receive milestones and royalties as set forth in the
      original agreement. 

In
      December 2004, Cellegy and ProStrakan entered into an exclusive license
      agreement for the commercialization of Cellegesic, branded Rectogesic outside
      of
      the United States, in Europe. Under the terms of the agreement, Cellegy received
      a non-refundable payment of $1.0 million and is entitled to receive an
      additional $4.6 million in milestone payments, along with additional payments
      based on sales of product to ProStrakan for distribution in Europe. ProStrakan
      will be responsible for additional regulatory filings, sales, marketing and
      distribution of Rectogesic throughout Europe. In all, the agreement covers
      38
      European territories, including all EU member states. Cellegy will be
      responsible for supplying finished product to ProStrakan through its contract
      manufacturer. In addition, ProStrakan has granted a right of first negotiation
      to Cellegy for its oral estradiol-glucoside product, which is currently in
      Phase
      1 clinical development or an alternative product in the area of
      gastroenterology. The $1.0 million upfront fee received by the Company is being
      amortized to income over 10 years, which represents the estimated life of the
      underlying patent. 

F-27 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

In
      November 2005, the Company amended its 2004 agreement with ProStrakan concerning
      Rectogesic.       Under
      the
      terms of the amended agreement, ProStrakan will assume responsibility for all
      manufacturing and other product support functions and will purchase Rectogesic
      directly from Cellegy s contract manufacturer rather than purchasing the product
      from Cellegy under the terms of the original agreement. In return, Cellegy
      received a non-refundable payment of $2.0 million and may receive future
      milestone payments of up to $750,000 upon approval of the product in certain
      major European countries. The $2.0 million payment is being amortized to income
      over the remaining estimated life of the underlying patent considered in
      connection with the 2004 agreement. 

Biosyn  

In
      October 1989, Biosyn entered into an agreement whereby it obtained an
      exclusive license to develop and market products using the C31G Technology.

In
      October 1996, Biosyn acquired the C31G Technology from the entity that
      originally licensed the technology to Biosyn. As part of the agreement, Biosyn
      is required to make annual royalty payments equal to the sum of 1% of net
      product sales of up to $100 million, 0.5% of the net product sales over $100
      million and 1% of any royalty payments received by Biosyn under license
      agreements. The term of the agreement lasts until December 31, 2011 or upon
      the expiration of the C31G Technology s patent protection, whichever is later.
      Biosyn s current C31G patents expire between 2011 and 2018. 

In
      May 2001, Biosyn entered into an exclusive license agreement with Crompton
      Corporation under which Biosyn obtained the rights to develop and commercialize
      UC-781, a non-nucleoelostide reverse transcriptase inhibitor, as a topical
      microbicide. Under the terms of the agreement, Biosyn paid Crompton a
      nonrefundable, upfront license fee that was expensed in research and
      development. Crompton also received a warrant to purchase Biosyn common stock,
      which converted into a Cellegy warrant in connection with the acquisition and
      is
      exercisable for a period of two years upon initiation of Phase 3 trials of
      UC-781. Crompton is entitled to milestone payments upon the achievement of
      certain development milestones and royalties on product sales. If UC-781 is
      successfully developed as a microbicide, then Biosyn has exclusive worldwide
      commercialization rights. 

In
      February 2003, Biosyn acquired exclusive worldwide rights from the National
      Institutes of Health, or NIH, for the development and commercialization of
      protein Cyanovirin-N as a vaginal gel to prevent the sexual transmission of
      HIV.
      NIH is entitled to milestone payments upon achievement of certain development
      milestones and royalties on product sales. 

On
      February 1, 2006 Cellegy announced that it had entered into a non-exclusive,
      developing world licensing agreement with CONRAD for the collaboration on the
      development of Cellegy s entire microbicide pipeline. The agreement encompasses
      the licensing in the developing countries (as defined in the agreements) of
      Savvy clinical trials in the United States and Africa; UC-781, currently in
      expanded Phase 1 trials in the United States and Thailand; and Cyanovirin-N,
      currently in pre-clinical development. 

Under
      the
      terms of certain of its funding agreements, Biosyn has been granted the right
      to
      commercialize products supported by the funding in developed and developing
      countries, and is obligated to make its commercialized products, if any,
      available in developing countries, as well as to public sector agencies in
      developed countries at prices reasonably above cost or at a reasonable royalty
      rate. 

Biosyn
      has entered into various other research and technology agreements. Under these
      other agreements, Biosyn is working in collaboration with various other parties.
      Should any discoveries be made under such arrangements, Biosyn may be required
      to negotiate the licensing of the technology for the development of the
      respective discoveries. There are no significant funding commitments under
      any
      of these other agreements. 

F-28 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

16.
      Stockholders  Equity (Deficit)   

Common
      Stock Private Placements  

In
      January 2004, the Company entered into a Structured Secondary Offering
      facility agreement with Kingsbridge Capital Limited ( Kingsbridge SSO ). The
      Kingsbridge SSO requires Kingsbridge to purchase up to 3.74 million shares
      of
      newly issued common stock at times and in amounts selected by Cellegy over
      a
      period of up to two years, subject to certain restrictions. The Company filed
      a
      registration statement with the SEC, which was subsequently amended and declared
      effective on June 1, 2004. The Kingsbridge SSO agreement does not prohibit
      additional debt or equity financings, including Private Investment in Public
      Equity ( PIPEs ), shelf offerings, secondary offerings or any other non-fixed or
      future priced securities. If the common stock falls below $1.25 per share,
      Cellegy will not be able to conduct drawdowns on the Kingsbridge SSO. The timing
      and amount of any draw downs are at Cellegy s sole discretion, subject to
      certain timing conditions, and are limited to certain maximum amounts depending
      in part on the then current market capitalization of the Company. The purchase
      price of the common stock will be at discounts ranging from 8% to 12% of the
      average market price of the common stock prior to each future draw down. The
      lower discount applies to higher stock prices. In connection with the agreement,
      Cellegy issued warrants to Kingsbridge to purchase 260,000 common shares at
      an
      exercise price of $5.27 per share. Cellegy can, at its discretion and based
      on
      its cash needs, determine how much, if any, of the equity line it will draw
      down
      in the future, subject to the other conditions in the agreement. The Company
      completed two drawdowns in 2004, issuing a total of 246,399 common shares
      resulting in net proceeds of approximately $0.8 million. 

In
      July 2004, Cellegy completed a private placement financing, primarily with
      existing institutional stockholders, issuing 3,020,000 common shares and
      warrants to purchase 604,000 shares of common stock, with an offering price
      of
      the common shares of $3.42 per share and the exercise price of the warrants
      of
      $4.62 per share. Net proceeds were $10.3 million. 

On
      May
      12, 2005, Cellegy raised approximately $5.7 million after offering expenses,
      in
      a private placement of its common stock and warrants, to existing and new
      institutional and individual investors.  The transaction consisted of the
      sale of approximately 3,621,819 shares of common stock.  The Company also
      issued Class A Warrants to purchase approximately 714,362 shares of common
      stock
      at an exercise price of $2.25 per share.  The Class A warrants can be
      called by the Company if the Company s common stock trades for 20 consecutive
      days over $5.00. The Company also issued Class B Warrants to purchase
      approximately 714,362 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $2.50
      per
      share.  Class A and B Warrants can be called by the Company if the
      Company s closing bid price of a share of Common Stock equals or exceeds $5.00
      or $5.50, respectively, for any twenty (20) consecutive trading days commencing
      after the Registration Statement has been declared effective at a redemption
      price equal to $0.01 per share of common stock.  Three directors of Cellegy
      purchased a total of 50,000 shares in the offering at the closing market price
      of the common stock on the date of the transaction for $2.13 per share. 
The directors did not receive any warrants. The purchase price for shares
      purchased by the non-director investors was $1.65 per share.  Pursuant to
      the transaction agreements, the Company has filed a registration statement
      on
      Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which was declared
      effective on July 8, 2005, covering the possible resale of the shares from
      time
      to time in the future. 

PDI
      Senior Convertible Debenture  

As
      more
      fully described in Note 8,  Notes Payable , Cellegy issued a $3.5 million
      senoior convertible debenture to PDI in 2005 in connection with the settlement
      of its lawsuit with PDI. Cellegy may redeem the note at any time before the
      maturity date upon prior notice to PDI, at a redemption price equal to the
      principal amount. If Cellegy delivers such a redemption notice, PDI may convert
      the note into shares of Cellegy common stock at a price of $1.65 per share.
      In
      addition, after the 18th month anniversary of the debenture, PDI may convert
      the
      note into Cellegy common stock at a price of $1.65 per share. If Cellegy does
      not redeem the note within the first 18 months, then Cellegy has agreed to
      file
      a registration statement relating to the possible resale of any shares issued
      to
      PDI after 18 months. 2,121,212 shares would be issuable upon such
      conversion. 

F-29 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

Delaware
      Reincorporation  

In
      September 2004, the Company reincorporated in the state of Delaware. In
      connection with the reincorporation, each outstanding share of Cellegy
      California common stock, no par value, was automatically converted into one
      share of Cellegy Delaware common stock, $0.0001 par value per share. Each stock
      certificate representing issued and outstanding shares of Cellegy California
      common stock continues to represent the same number of shares of Cellegy
      Delaware common stock. The Company recorded as additional paid-in capital,
      the
      cumulative excess value of the no par common shares that were converted to
      shares with par value of $.0001 as of the reincorporation date. 

Preferred
      Stock  

The
      Company s Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that the Company may
      issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. The
      Board
      of Directors is authorized to establish from time to time the number of shares
      to be included in, and the designation of, any such series and to determine
      or
      alter the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions granted to or
      imposed upon any wholly unissued series of preferred stock and to increase
      or
      decrease the number of shares of any such series without any further vote or
      action by the stockholders. 

Stock
      Market Listing  

On
      September 14, 2005 the Company received a determination letter from the Nasdaq
      Listing Qualifications Panel transferring its stock listing to the Nasdaq Small
      Cap Market. On December 29, 2005 Cellegy was delisted from the Nasdaq Small
      Cap
      Market. The delisting resulted from the Company not satisfying the $35 million
      market capitalization requirement under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule
      4310(c)(2)(B)(ii). The Company also does not comply with alternative standards
      for continued listing on the Nasdaq Small Cap Market. The Company s
      s  tock
      currently trades on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. 

Stock
      Option Plans  

2005
      Equity Incentive Plan  

The
      Company s Stockholders approved a new 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the  2005
      Plan ) at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held September 28, 2005. The 2005
      Plan replaces the 1995 Equity Incentive Plan ( Prior Plan ) which had
      expired. The 2005 Plan will be administered by the Board and the Board has
      delegated administration to the Compensation Committee. The Board of Directors
      may at any time amend, alter, suspend or discontinue the 2005 Plan without
      stockholder approval, except as required by applicable law. The 2005 Plan is
      not
      subject to the ERISA and is not qualified under Section 401(a) of the
      Code. 

The
      2005
      Plan provides for the grant of options and other awards to employees, directors
      and consultants. Options granted under the 2005 Plan may be either incentive
      stock options or nonqualified stock options. Incentive stock options may be
      granted only to employees. The Compensation Committee determines who will
      receive options or other awards under the 2005 Plan and their terms, including
      the exercise price, number of shares subject to the option or award, and the
      vesting and exercisability thereof. Options granted under the 2005 Plan
      generally have a term of ten years from the grant date, and exercise price
      typically is equal to the closing price of the common stock on the grant date.
      Options typically vest over a three-year or four-year period. Options granted
      under the 2005 Plan typically expire if not exercised within 90 days from the
      date on which the optionee is no longer an employee, director or consultant.
      The
      vesting and exercisability of options may also be accelerated upon certain
      change of control events. As of December 31, 2005 there were outstanding options
      to purchase 49,500 shares under the 2005 Plan and 950,500 shares were available
      for options or other awards under the 2005 Plan. 

F-30 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

The
      following table summarizes those stock options outstanding related to the 2005
      Plan at December 31, 2005:  

There
      were no options exercisable under the 2005 plan as of December 31,
      2005. 

Prior
      Plan  

The
      total
      number of shares reserved and available for issuance pursuant to the exercise
      of
      Awards under the Prior Plan is 4,850,000 shares. The Prior Plan will continue
      to
      govern the stock options previously granted under the Prior Plan. However,
      no
      further stock options or other awards will be made pursuant to the Prior
      Plan. 

The
      following table summarizes those stock options outstanding and exercisable
      related to the Prior Plan at December 31, 2005:  

F-31 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

At
      December 31, 2004 and 2003, options to purchase 2,801,642 shares of common
      stock with an average price of $4.90 and 2,173,078 shares of common stock with
      an average price of $4.77were vested and exercisable, respectively. No future
      options may be granted under the Prior Plan. 

Directors     
      Stock Option Plan  

In
      1995,
      Cellegy adopted the 1995 Directors  Stock Option Plan (the  Directors  Plan ) to
      provide for the issuance of non-qualified stock options to eligible outside
      Directors. When the plan was established, Cellegy reserved 150,000 shares for
      issuance. From 1996 to 2005, a total of 350,000 shares were reserved for
      issuance under the Directors  Plan. The 2005 Plan replaces the Directors 
Plan. 

The
      Directors  Plan provides for the grant of initial and annual non-qualified stock
      options to non-employee directors. Initial options vest over a four-year period
      and subsequent annual options vest over three years. The exercise price of
      options granted under the Directors  Plan is the fair market value of the common
      stock on the grant date. Options generally expire 10 years from the grant date,
      and generally expire within 90 days of the date the optionee is no longer a
      director. The vesting and exercisability of options may also be accelerated
      upon
      certain change of control events. 

Activity
      under the Directors  Plan is summarized as follows: 

F-32 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)  

The
      following table summarizes those stock options outstanding and exercisable
      related to the Directors  Plan at December 31, 2005: 

At
      December 31, 2004 and 2003, options to purchase 307,500 shares of common
      stock with a weighted average exercise price of $4.74 and 251,167 shares of
      common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $4.79 were vested and
      exercisable, respectively. At December 31, 2005, there were no options
      available for future grants under the Directors  Plan. 

Non-Plan
      Options  

In
      November 2003, the Company granted an initial stock option to
      Mr. Richard Williams, on his appointment to become Chairman of the Board,
      to purchase 1,000,000 shares of common stock. 400,000 of the options have an
      exercise price equal to $2.89 per share, the closing price of the stock on
      the
      grant date and 600,000 of the options have an exercise price of $5.00 per share.
      The option was vested and exercisable in full on the grant date, although a
      portion of the option, covering up to 600,000 initially and declining over
      time,
      is subject to cancellation if they have not been exercised in the event that
      Mr. Williams voluntarily resigns as Chairman and a director within certain
      future time periods. As of December 31, 2005,  none of these options
      have been exercised. 

In
      October 2004, in conjunction with its acquisition of Biosyn, Cellegy issued
      stock options to certain Biosyn option holders to purchase 236,635 shares of
      Cellegy common stock. All options issued were immediately vested and
      exercisable. During 2005, 74,446 options were exercised and 99,162 were
      cancelled. The following table summarizes information about stock options
      outstanding     and
      exercisable related to Biosyn option grants at December 31,
      2005: 

F-33 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

Shares
      Reserved  

As
      of
      December 31, 2005, the Company has reserved shares of common stock for
      future issuance as     follows: 

Warrants  

The
      Company has the following warrants outstanding to purchase common stock as
      of
      December 31, 2005: 

Non-Cash
      Compensation Expense Related to Stock Options  

For
      the
      year ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, The Company recorded $651,
      $109,000 and $579,000, respectively. 

17.
      Income Taxes   

At
      December 31, 2005 the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of
      approximately $87.9 million and $44.2 million for federal and state
      purposes, respectively. The federal net operating loss carryforwards expire
      between the years 2006 and 2025. The state net operating loss carryforwards
      expire between the years 2006 and 2015. At December 31, 2005, the Company
      also had research and development credit carryforwards of approximately $2.9
      million and $1.5 million for federal and state purposes, respectively. The
      federal credits expire between the years 2006 and 2025 and the state credits
      do
      not expire.  The
      Tax
      Reform Act of 1986 (the Act) provides for a limitation on the annual use of
      net
      operating loss and research and development tax credit carryforwards following
      certain ownership changes (as defined by the Act) that could limit the Company s
      ability to utilize these carryforwards. The Company may have experienced various
      ownership changes, as defined by the Act, as a result of past financings.
      Accordingly, the Company s ability to utilize the aforementioned carryforwards
      may be limited. Additionally, U.S. tax laws limit the time during which these
      carryforwards may be applied against future taxes; therefore the Company may
      not
      be able to take full advantage of these carryforwards for Federal income tax
      purposes.    The
      Company determined that the net operating loss carryforwards relating to Biosyn
      are limited due to its acquisition in 2004 and has reflected the estimated
      amount of usable net operating loss carryforwards in its deferred tax assets
      below. 

Deferred
      income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the
      carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes
      and
      the amounts used for income tax purposes. The amount of deferred tax assets
      in
      2005 and 2004 not available to be recorded as a benefit due to the exercise
      of
      non-qualified employee stock options is approximately $643,000 and $599,000,
      respectively. 

Under
      the
      provisions of paragraph 30 of SFAS No. 109, if a valuation allowance is
      recognized for the deferred tax asset for an acquired entity's deductible
      temporary differences or operating loss or tax credit carryforwards at the
      acquisition date, the tax benefits for those items that are first recognized
      in
      financial statements after the acquisition date shall be applied (a) first
      to
      reduce to zero any goodwill related to the acquisition, (b) second to reduce
      to
      zero other noncurrent intangible assets related to the acquisition, and (c)
      third to reduce income tax expense. The future tax benefit of the Bisosyn
      pre-acquisisiton net operating losses, tax credits, and other deductible
      temporary differences, when they are ultiimately recgonized, will be recorded
      in
      accordance with paragraph 30 of SFAS 109.   

Significant
      components of the Company s deferred tax liabilities and assets are as follows
      (in thousands): 

F-34 

Cellegy
          Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

           (a
          development stage company)  

Notes
          to Consolidated Financial Statements
          (Continued)  

Reconciliation
      of the statutory federal income tax rate to the Company s effective income
      tax rate (dollars in thousands): 

The
      valuation allowance for deferred tax assets for 2005 decreased by approximately
      $200,000 and increased in 2004 by approximately $14.0 million. 

18.
      Segment Reporting   

Cellegy s
      revenues consisted of
      Rectogesic Sales in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and South Korea,
      as well as licensing revenue relating to Fortigel, Rectogesic and Tostrex.
      Revenues also consist of grant funding from various domestic agencies and
      foundations. The Company has divested skin care business in December 2005.
       The Company has not reflected the sale of the skin care business as a
      discontinued operation due to immateriality. 

Management
      regularly assesses segment operating performance and makes decisions as to
      how
      resources are allocated based upon segment performance. The accounting policies
      of the reportable segments are consistent with those described in the Summary
      of
      Significant Accounting Policies (Footnote 1). 

F-35 

Cellegy
        Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

         (a
        development stage company)  

Notes
        to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)  

Revenues
      from external sources by major geographic area are as follows: 

Revenues
      from product sales to one customer represented approximately 38%, 7% and 20%
      of
      total revenue from 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. 

Operating
      income (loss) by geographic region is as follows: 

F-36 

Cellegy
        Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

         (a
        development stage company)  

Notes
        to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)  

Assets
      by
      major geographic region are as follows: 

19.
      Related Party Transactions  

The
      Company pays fees to their board members for their services to the board
      including the audit, nominating, and compensation committees. The total cash
      payments       to
      these
      directors during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $75,500, $180,703, and $103,000,
      respectively.  In mid 2005, at the request of the directors, the Company
      deferred the payment of board fees. 

There
      were no consulting fees paid in cash to any board members in 2005, 2004 and
      2003. The Company recognized $131,000 in non-cash compensation expense during
      2003 associated with the valuation of vested stock options previously issued
      under a consulting agreement to a former board member. 

Three
      directors, Messrs. Adams, Rothermel and Williams purchased a total of 50,000
      shares in connection with the May 2005 PIPE financing at the closing market
      price of the common stock on the date of the transaction. 

20.
      Subsequent Events   

On
      March
      24, 2006 the Company announced that its European marketing partner, ProStrakan
      had successfully completed the European Union Mutual Recognition Procedure
      for
      Rectogesic. Following the successful conclusion of the MRP process, national
      licenses will be issued in due course in the 19 additional countries (in
      addition to the United Kingdom, where approvals have previously been obtained)
      included in the MRP submission application. Cellegy is entitled to receive
      $250,000 for each marketing regulatory approval obtained in the first of any
      three countries out of France, Italy, Germany or Spain up to a maximum total
      amount payable of $750,000. Under Cellegy s previous agreements with PDI, Inc.,
      PDI is entitled to receive one-half of these payments.  

F-37 

21.
      Quarterly Financial Data      
      (Unaudited)   

(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)  

1      Includes
      a charge of $14,982,000 for acquired in-process technology relating to the
      Biosyn acquisition in October 2004. 

F-38 

<EX-10.24>
 2
 v038451_ex10-24.htm

EXHIBIT 10.24

CELLEGY
      PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.  

2005
      EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN  

Adopted
      June 8, 2005 

1.        PURPOSE    .
      The
      purpose of this Plan is to provide incentives to attract, retain and motivate
      eligible persons whose present and potential contributions are important to
      the
      success of the Company, its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates, by offering
      them an opportunity to participate in the Company's future performance through
      awards of Options, Restricted Stock and Stock Bonuses. Capitalized terms not
      defined in the text are defined in Section 23. 

2.        SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN    . 

2.1      Number of Shares Available   .
      Subject
      to Sections 2.2 and 18, the total number of Shares reserved and available for
      grant and issuance pursuant to this Plan will be one million (1,000,000) shares.
      Subject to Sections 2.2 and 18, Shares that: (a) are subject to issuance upon
      exercise of an Option but cease to be subject to such Option for any reason
      other than exercise of such Option; (b) are subject to an Award granted
      hereunder but are forfeited or are repurchased by the Company; (c) are subject
      to an Award that otherwise terminates without Shares being issued; (d) are
      withheld if an Award is exercised through a reduction of shares subject to
      the
      Award ( net exercise  or (e) are withheld in order to satisfy federal, state
      or local tax liability (to the extent permitted by the Committee), shall not
      count against the above limit and will again be available for grant and issuance
      in connection with future Awards under this Plan. If the exercise price of
      any
      Option is satisfied by delivering shares of Common Stock to the Company (be
      either actual delivery or by attestation), only the number of shares of Common
      Stock delivered to the Participant net of the shares of Common Stock delivered
      to the Company or attested to shall be deemed delivered for purposes of
      determining the maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for delivery
      pursuant to the 2005 Plan. At all times the Company shall reserve and keep
      available a sufficient number of Shares as shall be required to satisfy the
      requirements of all outstanding Options granted under this Plan and all other
      outstanding but unvested Awards granted under this Plan.  

2.2      Adjustment of Shares   .
      In the
      event that the number of outstanding Shares is changed by a stock dividend,
      recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, subdivision, combination,
      reclassification or similar change in the capital structure of the Company
      without consideration, then (a) the number of Shares reserved for issuance
      under
      this Plan, (b) the Exercise Prices of and number of Shares subject to
      outstanding Options, (c) the share amounts set forth in Section 3 below, and
      (d)
      the number of Shares subject to other outstanding Awards will be proportionately
      adjusted, subject to any required action by the Board or the shareholders of
      the
      Company and compliance with applicable securities laws;    provided   ,
         however   ,
      that
      fractions of a Share will not be issued but will either be replaced by a cash
      payment equal to the Fair Market Value of such fraction of a Share or will
      be
      rounded up to the nearest whole Share, as determined by the
      Committee. 

3.        ELIGIBILITY    .
      ISOs
      (as defined in Section 5 below) may be granted only to employees (including
      officers and directors who are also employees) of the Company or of a Parent
      or
      Subsidiary of the Company. All other Awards may be granted to employees,
      officers, directors, consultants and advisors of the Company or any Parent,
      Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company;    provided   
      such
      consultants and advisors render bona fide services not in connection with the
      offer and sale of securities in a capital-raising transaction. Subject to the
      provisions of this Plan relating to capitalization adjustment, at any time
      that
      the Company may be subject to the applicable provisions of Section 162(m) of
      the
      Code, no employee shall be eligible to be granted Awards whose value is
      determined by reference to an increase over an exercise or strike price of
      at
      least one hundred percent of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the
      date the Award is granted covering more than 500,000 Shares in any calendar
      year
      under this Plan pursuant to the grant of Awards hereunder, other than new
      employees of the Company or of a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company (including
      new employees who are also officers and directors of the Company or any Parent
      or Subsidiary of the Company), who are eligible to receive up to a maximum
      of
      1,000,000 shares in the calendar year in which they commence their employment.
      A
      person may be granted more than one Award under this Plan. 

1 

4.        ADMINISTRATION    . 

4.1      Committee Authority   .
      This
      Plan will be administered by the Committee or by the Board acting as the
      Committee. Subject to the general purposes, terms and conditions of this Plan,
      and to the direction of the Board, the Committee will have full power to
      implement and carry out this Plan. Without limitation, the Committee will have
      the authority to: 

(a) 

construe
                and interpret this Plan, any Award Agreement and any other agreement
                or
                document executed pursuant to this Plan;

(b) 

prescribe,
                amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to this Plan;

(c) 

select
                persons to receive Awards; 

(d) 

determine
                the form and terms of Awards (which need not be identical), including
                but
                not limited to, the time or times at which Options shall be exercisable
                and the extension or acceleration of any such provisions or limitations,
                based in each case on such factors as the Committee shall determine,
                in
                its sole discretion; 

(e) 

determine
                the number of Shares or other consideration subject to
                Awards; 

(f) 

determine
                whether Awards will be granted singly, in combination with, in tandem
                with, in replacement of, or as alternatives to, other Awards under
                this
                Plan or any other incentive or compensation plan of the Company or
                any
                Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of the
                Company; 

(g) 

grant
                waivers of Plan or Award
                conditions; 

(h) 

determine
                the vesting, exercisability and payment of
                Awards; 

(i) 

correct
                any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in
                this
                Plan, any Award or any Award
                Agreement; 

(j) 

determine
                whether an Award has been earned;
                and 

(k) 

make
                all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration
                of
                this Plan. 

In
      the
      sole discretion of the Board, the Committee may consist solely of two or more
      Outside Directors, in accordance with the Section 162(m) of the Code, and/or
      solely of two or more Non-Employee Directors in accordance with Rule 16b-3.
      In
      addition, the Board or the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (1) delegate
      to a committee of one or more members of the Board who need not be Outside
      Directors the authority to grant Awards to eligible persons who are either
      (a)
      not then Covered Employees and are not expected to be Covered Employees at
      the
      time of recognition of income resulting from such Award, or (b) not persons
      with
      respect to whom the Company wishes to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code,
      and/or (2) delegate to a committee of one or more members of the Board who
      need
      not be Non-Employee Directors the authority to grant Awards to eligible persons
      who are not then subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act. The Board may
      delegate to one or more officers of the Company the authority to do one or
      both
      of the following: (i) designate officers and employees of the Company or any
      of
      its Subsidiaries to be recipients of Awards and the terms thereof, and (ii)
      determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be subject to such Awards
      granted to such officers and employees of the Company; provided, however, that
      the Board resolutions regarding such delegation shall specify the total number
      of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to the Awards granted by such
      officer and that such officer may not grant an Award to himself or herself.
      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section, the Board may not
      delegate to an officer the authority to determine the Fair Market Value of
      the
      Common Stock.  

2 

4.2      Committee Discretion   .
      Any
      determination made by the Committee with respect to any Award will be made
      in
      its sole discretion at the time of grant of the Award or, unless in
      contravention of any express term of this Plan or Award, at any later time,
      and
      such determination will be final and binding on the Company and on all persons
      having an interest in any Award under this Plan. The Committee may delegate
      to
      one or more officers of the Company the authority to grant an Award under this
      Plan to Participants who are not Insiders of the Company. 

4.3      Compliance
      with Code Section 162(m)   .
      If two
      or more members of the Board are Outside Directors, then subject to the
      provisions of Section 4.1 above, the Committee shall be comprised of at least
      two members of the Board, all of whom are Outside Directors. 

4.4      Liability
      and Indemnification of the Committee   .
      No
      member of the group constituting the Committee, or any employee of the Company
      to whom the Committee delegates certain administrative responsibilities, shall
      be liable for any act or omission on such member's or employee's own part,
      including but not limited to the exercise of any power or discretion given
      to
      such member, or employee as delegatee, under this Plan, except for those acts
      or
      omissions resulting from such member's or employee's own gross negligence or
      willful misconduct. The Company shall indemnify each present and future member
      of the group constituting the Committee and each present and future employee
      delegated administrative responsibilities by such Committee against, and each
      member of the group constituting the Committee or employee delegated
      administrative responsibilities by such Committee shall be entitled without
      further act on his or her part to indemnity from the Company for, all expenses
      (including the amount of judgments or settlements approved by the Company and
      made with a view to the curtailment of costs of litigation, other than amounts
      paid to the Company itself) reasonably incurred by such person in connection
      with or arising out of any action, suit or proceeding to the full extent
      permitted by law and by the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws of the
      Company. 

5.        OPTIONS    .
      The
      Committee may grant Options to eligible persons and will determine whether
      such
      Options will be Incentive Stock Options within the meaning of the Code
      (    "ISOs"    )
      or
      Nonqualified Stock Options (    "NQSOs"    ),
      the
      number of Shares subject to the Option, the Exercise Price of the Option, the
      period during which the Option may be exercised, and all other terms and
      conditions of the Option, subject to the following: 

5.1      Form of Option Grant   .
      Each
      Option granted under this Plan will be evidenced by an Award Agreement which
      will expressly identify the Option as an ISO or an NQSO (    "Stock
      Option Agreement"    ),
      and
      will be in such form and contain such provisions (which need not be the same
      for
      each Participant) as the Committee may from time to time approve, and which
      will
      comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of this
      Plan. 

5.2      Date of Grant   .
      The
      date of grant of an Option will be the date on which the Committee makes the
      determination to grant such Option, unless otherwise specified by the Committee.
      The Stock Option Agreement and a copy of this Plan will be delivered to the
      Participant within a reasonable time after the granting of the
      Option. 

5.3      Exercise Period
      and Expiration Date   .
      An
      Option will vest and become exercisable within the times or upon the occurrence
      of events determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement
      governing such Options, subject to the provisions of Section 5.6, and subject
      to
      Company policies established by the Committee from time to time. The Committee
      may provide for Options to vest and become exercisable at one time or from
      time
      to time, periodically or otherwise, in such number of Shares or percentage
      of
      Shares subject to the Option as the Committee determines.  

No
      Option
      will be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date the
      Option is granted; and    provided
      further   
      that no
      ISO granted to a person who directly or by attribution owns more than ten
      percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of
      the
      Company or of any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company (    "Ten Percent Shareholder"    )
      will be
      exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years from the date the ISO is
      granted.  

3 

5.4      Exercise Price   .
      The
      Exercise Price of an NQSO will be determined by the Committee when the Option
      is
      granted;    provided   ,
         however   ,
      that if
      expressly required by one or more state securities authorities or laws as a
      condition of issuing Awards and Shares in compliance with the securities laws
      of
      such state, the exercise price of an NQSO shall not be less than 85% of the
      Fair
      Market Value of the Shares on the date of grant and the Exercise Price of any
      NQSO granted to a Ten Percent Shareholder shall not be less than 110% of the
      Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of grant. Notwithstanding the
      foregoing, an NQSO may be granted with an exercise price lower than that set
      forth in the preceding sentence if such Option is granted pursuant to an
      assumption or a substitution for another Option in a manner consistent with
      the
      provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code. The Exercise Price of an ISO will
      be
      not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of grant
      and the Exercise Price of any ISO granted to a Ten Percent Shareholder will
      not
      be less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of grant.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, an ISO may be granted with an exercise price
      lower than that set forth in the preceding sentence if such Option is granted
      pursuant to an assumption or a substitution for another Option in a manner
      consistent with the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code. Payment for the
      Shares purchased may be made in accordance with Section 8 of this
      Plan. 

5.5      Method of Exercise   .
      Options
      may be exercised only by delivery to the Company of a written stock option
      exercise agreement (the     "Exercise Agreement"    )
      in a
      form approved by the Committee (which need not be the same for each
      Participant), stating the number of Shares being purchased, the restrictions
      imposed on the Shares purchased under such Exercise Agreement, if any, and
      such
      representations and agreements regarding Participant's investment intent and
      access to information and other matters, if any, as may be required or desirable
      by the Company to comply with applicable securities laws, together with payment
      in full of the Exercise Price for the number of Shares being
      purchased. 

5.6      Termination   .
      Notwithstanding the exercise periods set forth in the Stock Option Agreement,
      exercise of an Option will always be subject to the following: 

(a) 

If
                the Participant is Terminated for any reason except death or Disability,
                then the Participant may exercise such Participant's Options only
                to the
                extent that such Options would have been exercisable upon the Termination
                Date no later than three (3) months after the Termination Date (or
                such
                shorter or longer time period not exceeding five (5) years as may
                be
                determined by the Committee, with any exercise beyond three (3) months
                after the Termination Date deemed to be an NQSO), but in any event,
                no
                later than the expiration date of the
                Options. 

(b) 

If
                the Participant is Terminated because of Participant's death or Disability
                (or the Participant dies within three (3) months after a Termination
                other
                than because of Participant's death or Disability), then Participant's
                Options may be exercised only to the extent that such Options would
                have
                been exercisable by Participant on the Termination Date and must
                be
                exercised by Participant (or Participant's legal representative or
                authorized assignee) no later than twelve (12) months after the
                Termination Date (or such shorter (but not less than six months)
                or longer
                time period not exceeding five (5) years as may be determined by
                the
                Committee, with any such exercise beyond (a) three (3) months after
                the
                Termination Date when the Termination is for any reason other than
                the
                Participant's death or disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3)
                of the
                Code, or (b) twelve (12) months after the Termination Date when the
                Termination is for Participant's death or Disability, deemed to be
                an
                NQSO), but in any event no later than the expiration date of the
                Options. 

4 

(c) 

Award
                Agreements and other agreements relating to Awards under this Plan
                may
                include a provision that if Participant is terminated for Cause,
                neither
                the Participate, the Participant s estate nor such other person who may
                then hold the Option shall be entitled to exercise any Option with
                respect
                to any Shares whatsoever, after termination of service, whether or
                not
                after termination of service the Participant may receive payment
                from the
                Company or Subsidiary for vacation pay, for services rendered prior
                to
                termination, for services rendered for the day on which termination
                occurs, for salary in lieu of notice, or for any other benefits.
                For the
                purpose of this paragraph, termination of service shall be deemed
                to occur
                on the date when the Company dispatches notice or advice to the
                Participant that the Participant s service is terminated.

5.7      Limitations on Exercise   .
      The
      Committee may specify a reasonable minimum number of Shares that may be
      purchased on any exercise of an Option, provided that such minimum number will
      not prevent Participant from exercising the Option for the full number of Shares
      for which it is then exercisable. 

5.8      Limitations on ISOs   .
      The
      aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the date of grant) of Shares
      with
      respect to which ISOs are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during
      any calendar year (under this Plan or under any other incentive stock option
      plan of the Company or any Affiliate, Parent or Subsidiary of the Company)
      will
      not exceed $100,000. If the Fair Market Value of Shares on the date of grant
      with respect to which ISOs are exercisable for the first time by a Participant
      during any calendar year exceeds $100,000, then the Options for the first
      $100,000 worth of Shares to become exercisable in such calendar year will be
      ISOs and the Options for the amount in excess of $100,000 that become
      exercisable in that calendar year will be NQSOs. In the event that the Code
      or
      the regulations promulgated thereunder are amended after the Effective Date
      of
      this Plan to provide for a different limit on the Fair Market Value of Shares
      permitted to be subject to ISOs, such different limit will be automatically
      incorporated herein and will apply to any Options granted after the effective
      date of such amendment. 

5.9      Modification, Extension or Renewal   .
      The
      Committee may modify, extend or renew outstanding Options and authorize the
      grant of new Options in substitution therefor, provided that any such action
      may
      not, without the written consent of a Participant, impair any of such
      Participant's rights under any Option previously granted. Any outstanding ISO
      that is modified, extended, renewed or otherwise altered will be treated in
      accordance with Section 424(h) of the Code. The Committee may reduce the
      Exercise Price of outstanding Options without the consent of Participants
      effected by a written notice to them;    provided   ,
         however   ,
      that
      the Exercise Price may not be reduced below the minimum Exercise Price that
      would be permitted under Section 5.4 of this Plan for Options granted on the
      date the action is taken to reduce the Exercise Price. 

5.10      No Disqualification   .
      Notwithstanding any other provision in this Plan, no term of this Plan relating
      to ISOs will be interpreted, amended or altered, nor will any discretion or
      authority granted under this Plan be exercised, so as to disqualify this Plan
      under Section 422 of the Code or, without the consent of the Participant
      affected, to disqualify any ISO under Section 422 of the Code. 

5.11      Automatic
      Grant Program for Non-Employee Directors.   
      Each
      Non-employee Director shall be eligible to receive Options under the automatic
      option grant program described below (the     Program     ).

(a)      Initial
      Grant   .
      Each
      Non-Employee Director who becomes a member of the Board will automatically
      be
      granted an NQSO to purchase 30,000 Shares (the     "Initial
      Grant"    ).
      Initial Grants shall be made on the first business day after the date such
      Optionee is first elected to the Board. 

(b)      Succeeding
      Annual Grants   .
      On the
      first business day after each of the Company's annual meeting of shareholders,
      if the Non-Employee Director is still a member of the Board, has served
      continuously as a member of the Board for at least one year, and has not
      received an Initial Grant in the same calendar year, the Optionee will
      automatically be granted an NQSO for 12,000 Shares (a     "Annual
      Grant"    ).

5 

(c)      Vesting   .
      Options
      granted under the Program shall be exercisable as they vest. The date an
      Optionee receives an Initial Grant or a Annual Grant is referred to as the
          "Start
      Date"    
      for such
      Option. Each Initial Grant and Annual Grant will vest as follows, so long as
      the
      Optionee continuously remains a director of the Company: (a) on the first
      anniversary of the Start Date, the grant will vest as to one-third (1/3) of
      the
      Shares subject to the Annual Grant or Initial Grant (as the case may be); (b)
      on
      the second anniversary of the Start Date, the grant will vest as to a one-third
      (1/3) of the Shares subject to the   Annual
      Grant or Initial Grant (as the case may be);   and
      (c)
      on the third anniversary of the Start Date, the grant will vest as to an
      additional one-third (1/3) of the Shares subject to the Annual Grant or Initial
      Grant (as the case may be). 

(d)      Exercise Price   .
      The
      exercise price of an Option granted under the Program shall be the Fair Market
      Value of the Shares, at the time that the Option is granted. 

(e)      Termination
      of Option.   
      Except
      as provided below in this Section, each Option shall expire ten (10) years
      after
      its Start Date (the     "Expiration
      Date"    ).
      The
      Option shall cease to vest if the Optionee ceases to be a member of the Board.
      The date on which the Optionee ceases to be a member of the Board shall be
      referred to in this Section as the     "Termination
      Date"    .
      An
      Option may be exercised after the Termination Date only as set forth
      below: 

(i)     If
      the
      Optionee ceases to be a member of the Board for any reason, then each Option
      then held by such Optionee, to the extent (and only to the extent) that it
      would
      have been exercisable by the Optionee on the Termination Date, may be exercised
      by the Optionee (or the Optionee's legal representative) within twelve (12)
      months after the Termination Date (or such shorter or longer period as is
      specified in the Option Agreement), but in no event later than the Expiration
      Date. 

(f)      Acceleration
      of Options    .   
      In the
      event of a corporate transaction of the kind described in Section 18 below,
      the
      vesting of all options granted pursuant to this Plan will accelerate and the
      options will become exercisable in full prior to the consummation of such event
      at such times and on such conditions as the Committee determines. 

6.        RESTRICTED STOCK    .
      A
      Restricted Stock Award is an offer by the Company to sell to an eligible person
      Shares that are subject to restrictions. The Committee will determine to whom
      an
      offer will be made, the number of Shares the person may purchase, the price
      to
      be paid (the     "Purchase Price"    ),
      the
      restrictions to which the Shares will be subject, if any, and all other terms
      and conditions of the Restricted Stock Award, subject to the
      following: 

6.1      Form of Restricted Stock Award   .
      All
      purchases under a Restricted Stock Award made pursuant to this Plan will be
      evidenced by an Award Agreement (    "Restricted
      Stock Purchase Agreement"    )
      that
      will be in such form (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the
      Committee will from time to time approve, and will comply with and be subject
      to
      the terms and conditions of this Plan. The offer of Restricted Stock will be
      accepted by the Participant's execution and delivery of the Restricted Stock
      Purchase Agreement and full payment for the Shares to the Company within thirty
      (30) days from the date the Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement is delivered
      to
      the person. If such person does not execute and deliver the Restricted Stock
      Purchase Agreement along with full payment for the Shares to the Company within
      thirty (30) days, then the offer will terminate, unless otherwise determined
      by
      the Committee.  

6.2      Purchase Price   .
      The
      Purchase Price of Shares sold pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award will be
      determined by the Committee;    provided   ,
      that if
      expressly required by any state securities authorities as a condition of the
      offer and sale of Shares subject to Restricted Stock Awards in compliance with
      the securities laws of such state, the Purchase Price will be at least 85%
      of
      the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date the Restricted Stock Award
      is
      granted, except in the case of a sale to a Ten Percent Shareholder, in which
      case the Purchase Price will be 100% of the Fair Market Value. Payment of the
      Purchase Price may be made in accordance with Section 8 of this
      Plan. 

6 

6.3      Restrictions   .
      Restricted Stock Awards will be subject to such restrictions (if any) as the
      Committee may impose. The Committee may provide for the lapse of such
      restrictions in installments and may accelerate or waive such restrictions,
      in
      whole or part, based on length of service, performance or such other factors
      or
      criteria as the Committee may determine.  

7.        STOCK BONUSES    . 

7.1      Awards of Stock Bonuses   .
      A Stock
      Bonus is an award of Shares (which may consist of Restricted Stock) for services
      rendered to the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company.
      A
      Stock Bonus may be awarded for past services already rendered to the Company,
      or
      any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company (provided that the
      Participant pays the Company the par value, if any, of the Shares awarded by
      such Stock Bonus in cash) pursuant to an Award Agreement (the     "Stock Bonus Agreement"    )
      that
      will be in such form (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the
      Committee will from time to time approve, and will comply with and be subject
      to
      the terms and conditions of this Plan. A Stock Bonus may be awarded upon
      satisfaction of such performance goals as are set out in advance in the
      Participant's individual Award Agreement (the     "Performance Stock Bonus Agreement"    )
      that
      will be in such form (which need not be the same for each Participant) as the
      Committee will from time to time approve, and will comply with and be subject
      to
      the terms and conditions of this Plan. Stock Bonuses may vary from Participant
      to Participant and between groups of Participants, and may be based upon the
      achievement of the Company, Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and/or individual
      performance factors or upon such other criteria as the Committee may determine.

7.2      Terms of Stock Bonuses   .
      The
      Committee will determine the number of Shares to be awarded to the Participant
      and whether such Shares will be Restricted Stock. If the Stock Bonus is being
      earned upon the satisfaction of performance goals pursuant to a Performance
      Stock Bonus Agreement, then the Committee will determine: (a) the nature, length
      and starting date of any period during which performance is to be measured
      (the
    "Performance Period"    )
      for
      each Stock Bonus; (b) the performance goals and criteria to be used to measure
      the performance, if any; (c) the number of Shares that may be awarded to the
      Participant; and (d) the extent to which such Stock Bonuses have been earned.
      Performance Periods may overlap and Participants may participate simultaneously
      with respect to Stock Bonuses that are subject to different Performance Periods
      and different performance goals and other criteria. The number of Shares may
      be
      fixed or may vary in accordance with such performance goals and criteria as
      may
      be determined by the Committee. The Committee may adjust the performance goals
      applicable to the Stock Bonuses to take into account changes in law and
      accounting or tax rules and to make such adjustments as the Committee deems
      necessary or appropriate to reflect the impact of extraordinary or unusual
      items, events or circumstances to avoid windfalls or hardships. 

7.3      Form of Payment   .
      The
      earned portion of a Stock Bonus may be paid currently or on a deferred basis
      with such interest or dividend equivalent, if any, as the Committee may
      determine. Payment may be made in the form of cash, whole Shares, including
      Restricted Stock, or a combination thereof, either in a lump sum payment or
      in
      installments, all as the Committee will determine.  

7.4      Termination During Performance Period   .
      If a
      Participant is Terminated during a Performance Period for any reason, then
      such
      Participant will be entitled to payment (whether in Shares, cash or otherwise)
      with respect to the Stock Bonus only to the extent earned as of the date of
      Termination in accordance with the Performance Stock Bonus Agreement, unless
      the
      Committee determines otherwise. 

8.        PAYMENT FOR SHARE PURCHASES    . 

8.1      Payment   .
      Payment
      for Shares purchased pursuant to this Plan may be made in cash (by check) or,
      where expressly approved for the Participant by the Committee and where
      permitted by law: 

7 

(a) 

by
                cancellation of indebtedness of the Company to the
                Participant; 

(b) 

by
                surrender of shares that either: (1) have been owned by Participant
                for
                more than six (6) months and have been paid for within the meaning
                of SEC
                Rule 144 (and, if such shares were purchased from the Company by
                use of a
                promissory note, such note has been fully paid with respect to such
                shares); or (2) were obtained by Participant in the public
                market; 

(c) 

by
                waiver of compensation due or accrued to the Participant for services
                rendered; provided, that the portion of the Purchase Price equal
                to the
                par value of the Shares, if any, must be paid in
                cash; 

(e) 

with
                respect only to purchases upon exercise of an Option, and provided
                that a
                public market for the Company's stock exists:

(1) 

through
                  a "same day sale" commitment from the Participant and a broker-dealer
                  that
                  is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers (an
                      "NASD Dealer"    )
                  whereby the Participant irrevocably elects to exercise the Option
                  and to
                  sell a portion of the Shares so purchased to pay for the Exercise
                  Price,
                  and whereby the NASD Dealer irrevocably commits upon receipt of
                  such
                  Shares to forward the Exercise Price directly to the Company;
                  or 

(2) 

through
                  a "margin" commitment from the Participant and a NASD Dealer whereby
                  the
                  Participant irrevocably elects to exercise the Option and to pledge
                  the
                  Shares so purchased to the NASD Dealer in a margin account as security
                  for
                  a loan from the NASD Dealer in the amount of the Exercise Price,
                  and
                  whereby the NASD Dealer irrevocably commits upon receipt of such
                  Shares to
                  forward the Exercise Price directly to the Company;
                  or 

(f) 

by
                any combination of the foregoing. 

9.        WITHHOLDING TAXES    . 

9.1      Withholding Generally   .
      Whenever Shares are to be issued in satisfaction of Awards granted under this
      Plan, the Company may require the Participant to remit to the Company an amount
      sufficient to satisfy federal, state and local withholding tax requirements
      prior to the delivery of any certificate or certificates for such Shares.
      Whenever, under this Plan, payments in satisfaction of Awards are to be made
      in
      cash, such payment will be net of an amount sufficient to satisfy federal,
      state, and local withholding tax requirements. 

9.2      Stock Withholding   .
      When,
      under applicable tax laws, a Participant incurs tax liability in connection
      with
      the exercise or vesting of any Award that is subject to tax withholding and
      the
      Participant is obligated to pay the Company the amount required to be withheld,
      the Committee may in its sole discretion allow the Participant to satisfy the
      minimum withholding tax obligation by electing to have the Company withhold
      from
      the Shares to be issued that number of Shares having a Fair Market Value equal
      to the minimum amount required to be withheld, determined on the date that
      the
      amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined. All elections by a Participant
      to have Shares withheld for this purpose will be made in accordance with the
      requirements established by the Committee and be in writing in a form acceptable
      to the Committee.  

8 

10.        PRIVILEGES OF STOCK OWNERSHIP    . 

10.1      Voting and Dividends   .
      No
      Participant will have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to any
      Shares until the Shares are issued to the Participant. After Shares are issued
      to the Participant, the Participant will be a shareholder and have all the
      rights of a shareholder with respect to such Shares, including the right to
      vote
      and receive all dividends or other distributions made or paid with respect
      to
      such Shares;    provided   ,
      that if
      such Shares are Restricted Stock, then any new, additional or different
      securities the Participant may become entitled to receive with respect to such
      Shares by virtue of a stock dividend, stock split or any other change in the
      corporate or capital structure of the Company will be subject to the same
      restrictions as the Restricted Stock;    provided   ,
         further   ,
      that
      the Participant will have no right to retain such stock dividends or stock
      distributions with respect to Shares that are repurchased at the Participant's
      original Purchase Price pursuant to Section 12. 

10.2      Financial Statements   .
      If
      expressly required by any state securities authorities as a condition of the
      offer and issuance of Awards in compliance with the securities laws of such
      state, the Company shall provide to each Participant during the period such
      Participant holds an outstanding Award a copy of the financial statements of
      the
      Company as prepared either by the Company or independent certified public
      accountants of the Company. Such financial statements shall be delivered as
      soon
      as practicable following the end of the Company's fiscal year during the period
      Awards are outstanding;    provided   ,
         however   ,
      the
      Company will not be required to provide such financial statements to
      Participants whose services in connection with the Company assure them access
      to
      equivalent information. 

11.        TRANSFERABILITY    .
      Unless
      determined otherwise by the Committee, Awards granted under this Plan, and
      any
      interest therein, will not be transferable or assignable by Participant, and
      may
      not be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process, otherwise
      than
      by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. During the lifetime of
      the
      Participant an Award will be exercisable only by the Participant, and any
      elections with respect to an Award, may be made only by the Participant. If
      the
      Committee in its sole discretion makes an Award or any interest therein
      transferable, such Award may only be transferred pursuant to such additional
      terms and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate.  

12.        RESTRICTIONS ON SHARES    .
      At the
      discretion of the Committee, the Company may reserve to itself and/or its
      assignee(s) in the Award Agreement a right to repurchase a portion of or all
      Shares that are not "Vested" (as defined in the Stock Option Agreement) held
      by
      a Participant following such Participant's Termination at any time within ninety
      (90) days after the later of Participant's Termination Date and the date
      Participant purchases Shares under this Plan, for cash and/or cancellation
      of
      purchase money indebtedness, at the Participant's original Purchase Price,
      provided, that the right to repurchase lapses at the rate of at least 20% per
      year over five (5) years from the date the Shares were purchased (or from the
      date of grant of options in the case of Shares obtained pursuant to a Stock
      Option Agreement and Stock Option Exercise Agreement), and if the right to
      repurchase is assignable, the assignee must pay the Company, upon assignment
      of
      the right to repurchase, cash equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value
      of
      the Shares over the original Purchase Price. 

13.        CERTIFICATES    .
      All
      certificates for Shares or other securities delivered under this Plan will
      be
      subject to such stock transfer orders, legends and other restrictions as the
      Committee may deem necessary or advisable, including restrictions under any
      applicable federal, state or foreign securities law, or any rules, regulations
      and other requirements of the SEC or any stock exchange or automated quotation
      system upon which the Shares may be listed or quoted. 

14.        ESCROW    .
      To
      enforce any restrictions on a Participant's Shares, the Committee may require
      the Participant to deposit all certificates representing Shares, together with
      stock powers or other instruments of transfer approved by the Committee,
      appropriately endorsed in blank, with the Company or an agent designated by
      the
      Company, to hold in escrow until such restrictions have lapsed or terminated,
      and the Committee may cause a legend or legends referencing such restrictions
      to
      be placed on the certificates.  

9 

15.        REPRICING,
      ECHANGE, BUYOUT OF AWARDS    .
      The
      repricing of Options is permitted without prior stockholder approval, provided
      that the terms of the repricing satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of
      the
      Code and any regulations or rulings promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service.
      The Committee may, at any time or from time to time, authorize the Company,
      in
      the case of an Option exchange without stockholder approval, and with the
      consent of the respective Participants, to issue new Awards in exchange for
      the
      surrender and cancellation of any or all outstanding Awards, to reduce the
      exercise price of any Award to the then current fair market value, or take
      any
      other action that is treated as a  repricing  under generally accepted
      accounting principles. The Committee may at any time buy from a Participant
      an
      Option previously granted with payment in cash, Shares or other consideration,
      based on such terms and conditions as the Committee and the Participant may
      agree.  

16.        SECURITIES LAW AND OTHER REGULATORY COMPLIANCE    .
      An
      Award will not be effective unless such Award is in compliance with all
      applicable federal and state securities laws, rules and regulations of any
      governmental body, and the requirements of any stock exchange or automated
      quotation system upon which the Shares may then be listed or quoted, as they
      are
      in effect on the date of grant of the Award and also on the date of exercise
      or
      other issuance. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Plan, the Company
      will have no obligation to issue or deliver certificates for Shares under this
      Plan prior to: (a) obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies that
      the
      Company determines are necessary or advisable; and/or (b) completion of any
      registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal
      law or ruling of any governmental body that the Company determines to be
      necessary or advisable. The Company will be under no obligation to register
      the
      Shares with the SEC or to effect compliance with the registration, qualification
      or listing requirements of any state securities laws, stock exchange or
      automated quotation system, and the Company will have no liability for any
      inability or failure to do so. 

17.        NO OBLIGATION TO EMPLOY    .
      Nothing
      in this Plan or any Award granted under this Plan will confer or be deemed
      to
      confer on any Participant any right to continue in the employ of, or to continue
      any other relationship with, the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate
      of the Company or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Parent,
      Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company to terminate Participant's employment
      or
      other relationship at any time, with or without cause. 

18.        CORPORATE TRANSACTIONS    . 

18.1      Assumption or Replacement of Awards by Successor   .
      In the
      event of (a) a dissolution or liquidation of the Company, (b) a merger or
      consolidation in which the Company is not the surviving corporation
      (   other       than   
      a merger
      or consolidation with a wholly-owned subsidiary, a reincorporation of the
      Company in a different jurisdiction, or other transaction in which there is
      no
      substantial change in the shareholders of the Company or their relative stock
      holdings and the Awards granted under this Plan are assumed, converted or
      replaced by the successor corporation, which assumption will be binding on
      all
      Participants), (c) a merger in which the Company is the surviving corporation
      but after which the shareholders of the Company immediately before such merger
      (other than any shareholder which merges (or which owns or controls another
      corporation which merges) with the Company in such merger) cease to own their
      shares or other equity interests in the Company, (d) the sale of substantially
      all of the assets of the Company, or (e) any other transaction which qualifies
      as a "corporate transaction" under Section 424(a) of the Code wherein the
      shareholders of the Company give up all of their equity interest in the Company
      (   except   
      for the
      acquisition, sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the outstanding
      shares of the Company from or by the shareholders of the Company), any or all
      outstanding Awards may be assumed, converted or replaced by the successor
      corporation (if any), which assumption, conversion or replacement will be
      binding on all Participants. In the alternative, the successor corporation
      may
      substitute equivalent Awards or provide substantially similar consideration
      to
      Participants as was provided to shareholders (after taking into account the
      existing provisions of the Awards). The successor corporation may also issue,
      in
      place of outstanding Shares of the Company held by the Participant,
      substantially similar shares or other property subject to repurchase
      restrictions no less favorable to the Participant. In the event such successor
      corporation (if any) refuses to assume or replace such Awards, as provided
      above, pursuant to a transaction described in this Subsection 18.1, such Awards
      shall immediately vest as to 100% of the Shares subject thereto immediately
      prior to the consummation of such transaction. All Awards that are not assumed
      as part of such transaction shall expire at the closing of such transaction
      unless otherwise determined by the Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
      Board may, in its sole discretion, provide that the vesting of any or all other
      Awards granted pursuant to this Plan will accelerate upon a transaction
      described in this Section 18.1. If the Board exercises such discretion with
      respect to Options, such Options will become exercisable in full prior to the
      consummation of such event at such time and on such conditions as the Board
      determines, and if such Options are not exercised prior to the consummation
      of
      the corporate transaction, they shall terminate at such time as determined
      by
      the Board. 

10 

18.2      Other Treatment of Awards   .
      Subject
      to any greater rights granted to Participants under the foregoing provisions
      of
      this Section 18, in the event of the occurrence of any transaction described
      in
      Section 18.1, any outstanding Awards will be treated as provided in the
      applicable agreement or plan of merger, consolidation, dissolution, liquidation,
      sale of assets or other corporate transaction. 

18.3      Assumption of Awards by the Company   .
      The
      Company, from time to time, also may substitute or assume outstanding awards
      granted by another company, whether in connection with an acquisition of such
      other company or otherwise, by either; (a) granting an Award under this Plan
      in
      substitution of such other company's award; or (b) assuming such award as if
      it
      had been granted under this Plan if the terms of such assumed award could be
      applied to an Award granted under this Plan. Such substitution or assumption
      will be permissible if the holder of the substituted or assumed award would
      have
      been eligible to be granted an Award under this Plan if the other company had
      applied the rules of this Plan to such grant. In the event the Company assumes
      an award granted by another company, the terms and conditions of such award
      will
      remain unchanged (   except   
      that the
      exercise price and the number and nature of Shares issuable upon exercise of
      any
      such option will be adjusted appropriately pursuant to Section 424(a) of the
      Code). In the event the Company elects to grant a new Option rather than
      assuming an existing option, such new Option may be granted with a similarly
      adjusted Exercise Price. 

19.        ADOPTION AND SHAREHOLDER
      APPROVAL    .
      This
      Plan was adopted by the Board on June 8, 2005 (the     "Effective Date"    ).
      This
      Plan shall be approved by the stockholders of the Company (excluding Shares
      issued pursuant to this Plan), consistent with applicable laws, within twelve
      (12) months after the Effective Date. Upon the Effective Date, the Board may
      grant Awards pursuant to this Plan;    provided   ,
         however   ,
      that:
      (a) no Option may be exercised prior to initial shareholder approval of this
      Plan; (b) no Option granted pursuant to an increase in the number of Shares
      subject to this Plan approved by the Board will be exercised prior to the time
      such increase has been approved by the stockholders of the Company; and (c)
      in
      the event that stockholder approval of such increase is not obtained within
      the
      time period provided herein, all Awards granted hereunder will be canceled,
      any
      Shares issued pursuant to any Award will be canceled, and any purchase of Shares
      hereunder will be rescinded.  

20.        TERM OF PLAN    .
      Unless
      earlier terminated as provided herein, this Plan will terminate ten (10) years
      following the Effective Date.  

21.        AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF PLAN    .
      The
      Board may at any time terminate or amend this Plan in any respect, including
      without limitation amendment of any form of Award Agreement or instrument to
      be
      executed pursuant to this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the
      Board
      nor the Committee shall, without the approval of the shareholders of the
      Company, amend this Plan in any manner that requires such shareholder approval
      pursuant to the Code or the regulations promulgated thereunder as such
      provisions apply to ISO plans or (if the Company is subject to the Exchange
      Act)
      pursuant to the Exchange Act or any rule promulgated thereunder.  

22.        NONEXCLUSIVITY OF THE PLAN    .
      Neither
      the adoption of this Plan by the Board, the submission of this Plan to the
      shareholders of the Company for approval, nor any provision of this Plan will
      be
      construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board to adopt such
      additional compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable, including,
      without limitation, the granting of stock options and bonuses otherwise than
      under this Plan, and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or
      applicable only in specific cases. 

23.        DEFINITIONS     .   
      As used
      in this Plan, the following terms will have the following meanings: 

11 

"Affiliate"    
      means
      any corporation that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries,
      controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, another
      corporation, where "control" (including the terms "controlled by" and "under
      common control with") means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power
      to
      cause the direction of the management and policies of the corporation, whether
      through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or
      otherwise. 

"Award"    
      means
      any award under this Plan, including any Option, Restricted Stock or Stock
      Bonus. 

"Award Agreement"    
      means,
      with respect to each Award, the signed written agreement between the Company
      and
      the Participant setting forth the terms and conditions of the
      Award. 

"Board"    
      means
      the Board of Directors of the Company. 

Cause          means
      termination of the Participant s employment on the basis of the Participant s
      conviction (or a plea of nolo contendere) of fraud, misappropriation,
      embezzlement or any other act or acts of dishonesty constituting a felony and
      resulting or intended to result directly or indirectly in a substantial gain
      or
      personal enrichment to the Participant at the expense of the Company or any
      Subsidiary. 

"Code"    
      means
      the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

"Committee"    
      means
      the committee appointed by the Board to administer this Plan, or if no such
      committee is appointed, the Board. 

"Company"    
      means
      Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. a corporation organized under the laws of the
      State of Delaware, or any successor corporation. 

Covered
      Employee     
      means
      the chief executive officer and the four (4) other highest compensated officers
      of the Company for whom total compensation is required to be reported to
      stockholders under the Exchange Act, as determined for purposes Section 162(m)
      of the Code. 

"Disability"    
      means a
      disability, whether temporary or permanent, partial or total, as determined
      by
      the Committee. 

"Exchange Act"    
      means
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

"Exercise Price"    
      means
      the price at which a holder of an Option may purchase the Shares issuable upon
      exercise of the Option. 

"Fair Market Value"    
      means,
      as of any date, the value of a share of the Company's Common Stock determined
      by
      the Board in its sole discretion, exercised in good faith;    provided   ,
         however   ,
      that if
      the Common Stock of the Company is quoted on the Small Cap Market of the
      National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or is
      regularly quoted by a recognized securities dealer, and selling prices are
      reported, the Fair Market Value per share shall be the closing sales price
      for
      such stock or the closing bid if no sales were reported, as quoted on such
      system or by such dealer, for the date the value is to be determined (or if
      there are not sales for such date, then for the last preceding business day
      on
      which there were sales);    provided   ,
         however   ,
      that if
      the Common Stock of the Company is listed on any established stock exchange
      or a
      national market system, including without limitation the National Market System
      of the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System,
      the Fair Market Value per share shall be the closing sales price for such stock
      or the closing bid if no sales were reported, as quoted on such system or
      exchange (or the largest such exchange) for the date the value is to be
      determined (or if there are not sales for such date, then for the last preceding
      business day on which there were sales), as reported in the    Wall
      Street Journal   
      or
      similar publication. 

12 

"Insider"    
      means an
      officer or director of the Company or any other person whose transactions in
      the
      Company's Common Stock are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange
      Act. 

Non-employee
      Director     
      means a
      director who either (i) is not a current employee or officer of the Company
      or
      an Affiliate, does not receive compensation, either directly or indirectly,
      from
      the Company or an Affiliate for services rendered as a consultant or in any
      capacity other than as a director (except for an amount as to which disclosure
      would not be required under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K promulgated pursuant
      to the Securities Act (     Regulation
      S-K     )),
      does
      not possess an interest in any other transaction for which disclosure would
      be
      required under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K, and is not engaged in a business
      relationship for which disclosure would be required pursuant to Item 404(b)
      of
      Regulation S-K; or (ii) is otherwise considered a  non-employee director  for
      purposes of Rule 16b-3. 

"Option"    
      means an
      award of an option to purchase Shares pursuant to Section 5. 

"    Outside
      Directors    "
      means a
      director who either (i) is not a current employee of the Company or an
 affiliated corporation  (within the meaning of Treasury Regulations promulgated
      under Section 162(m) of the Code), in not a former employee of the Company
      or an
 affiliated corporation  who receives compensation for prior services (other
      than benefits under a tax-qualified retirement plan) during the taxable year,
      has not been an officer of the Company or an  affiliated corporation,  and does
      not receive renumeration from the Company or an  affiliated corporation  either
      directly or indirectly, in any capacity other than as a director, or (ii) is
      otherwise considered an  outside director  for purposes of Section 162(m) of the
      Code. 

"Parent"    
      means
      any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations
      ending with the Company, if at the time of the granting of an Award under this
      Plan, each of such corporations other than the Company owns stock possessing
      50%
      or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of
      the
      other corporations in such chain. 

"Participant"    
      means a
      person who receives an Award under this Plan. 

"Plan"    
      means
      this Cellegy Pharmaceutical, Inc. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended from
      time to time. 

"Restricted Stock Award"    
      means an
      award of Shares pursuant to Section 6. 

"SEC"    
      means
      the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

"Securities Act"    
      means
      the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 

"Shares"    
      means
      shares of the Company's Common Stock reserved for issuance under this Plan,
      as
      adjusted pursuant to Sections 2 and 18, and any successor security. 

"Stock Bonus"    
      means an
      award of Shares, or cash in lieu of Shares, pursuant to Section 7. 

"Subsidiary"    
      means
      any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations
      beginning with the Company if, at the time of granting of the Award, each of
      the
      corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock
      possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of
      stock in one of the other corporations in such chain. 

"Termination"    
      or
    "Terminated"    
      means,
      for purposes of this Plan with respect to a Participant, that the Participant
      has for any reason ceased to provide services as an employee, director,
      consultant or advisor to the Company or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of
      the
      Company,    except   
      in the
      case of sick leave, military leave, or any other leave of absence approved
      by
      the Committee, provided that such leave is for a period of not more than ninety
      (90) days, or reinstatement upon the expiration of such leave is guaranteed
      by
      contract or statute. The Committee will have sole discretion to determine
      whether a Participant has ceased to provide services and the effective date
      on
      which the Participant ceased to provide services (the     "Termination Date"    ). 

13 

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.25>
 3
 v038451_ex10-25.htm

EXHIBIT 10.25

CELLEGY
        PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.  

         2005
        EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN  

         STOCK
        OPTION AGREEMENT   

This
        Stock Option Agreement (this     "Agreement"    )
        is made
        and entered into as of the date of grant set forth below (the     "Date
        of Grant"    )
        by and
        between Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
    "Company"    ),
        and
        the participant named below (    "Participant"    ).
        Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them
        in
        the Company's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the     "2005
        Plan"    ).

Participant:  

           Social
          Security Number:  

           Participant's
          Address:   

Total
          Option Shares:  

           Exercise
          Price Per Share:  

           Date
          of Grant:  

           Vesting
          Start Date:  

           Expiration
          Date:  

           Type
          of Stock Option   

(Check
                  one):  

o    
                  Incentive Stock Option  

                   o    
                  Nonqualified Stock Option  

1.        
        Grant of Option    .  The
        Company hereby grants to Participant an option (this     "Option"    )
        to
        purchase up to the total number of shares of Common Stock of the Company
        set
        forth above (collectively, the     "Shares"    )
        at the
        Exercise Price Per Share set forth above (the     "Exercise
        Price"    ),
        subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the 2005
        Plan.
        If designated as an Incentive Stock Option above, this Option is intended
        to
        qualify as an "incentive stock option" (    "ISO"    )
        within
        the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
        (the     "Code"    ).
        Capitalized terms not defined in this Agreement will have the meanings given
        to
        them in the 2005 Plan. 

2.        
        Vesting; Exercise Period    .

2.1
           Vesting
        of Right to Exercise Option.     This
        Option shall become exercisable as it vests as to portions of the Shares
        as
        follows: (a) this Option shall not be exercisable with respect to any of
        the Shares until _________________ (the "    Vesting
        Start Date    ");
        (b) On the Vesting Start Date this Option shall become exercisable as to
        twenty-five percent (25%) of the Shares; and (c) thereafter, on the first
        anniversary of the Vesting Start Date and on each successive anniversary
        of the
        Vesting Start Date, this Option shall become exercisable as to an additional
        twenty-five percent (25%) of the Shares; provided that this Option shall
        in no
        event ever become exercisable with respect to more than 100% of the Shares.
        Vesting will occur so long as Participant continuously provides services
        to the
        Company or any Subsidiary, Parent or Affiliate of the Company and is not
        terminated.  

2.2     Expiration.     This
        Option shall expire on the Expiration Date set forth above and must be
        exercised, if at all, on or before the earlier of the Expiration Date or
        the
        date on which this Option is earlier terminated in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 3.    

3.        
        Termination    .

3.1     Termination
        for Cause.     If
        Participant is Terminated for cause, then this Option, to the extent (and
        only
        to the extent) that it would have been exercisable by Participant on the
        date of
        Termination, may be exercised by Participant no later than three (3) months
        after the date of Termination, but in any event no later than the Expiration
        Date.     

1 

3.2     Termination
        Because of Death or Disability.     If
        Participant is Terminated because of death or Disability or Participant,
        then
        this Option, to the extent that it is exercisable by Participant on the date
        of
        Termination, may be exercised by Participant (or Participant's legal
        representative) no later than twelve (12) months after the date of
        Termination, but in any event no later than the Expiration Date.  

3.3     No
        Obligation to Employ.     Nothing
        in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on Participant any right to continue
        in the employ of, or other relationship with, the Company or any Parent,
        Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company, or limit in any way the right of
        the
        Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company to terminate
        Participant's employment or other relationship at any time, with or without
        cause.  

4.        
        Manner of Exercise    .

4.1     Stock
        Option Exercise Agreement.     To
        exercise this Option, Participant (or in the case of exercise after
        Participant's death, Participant's executor, administrator, heir or legatee,
        as
        the case may be) must deliver to the Company an executed stock option exercise
        agreement in such form as may be approved by the Company from time to time
        (the
    "Exercise
        Agreement"    ),
        which
        shall set forth,    inter
        alia,    Participant's
        election to exercise this Option, the number of Shares being purchased, any
        restrictions imposed on the Shares and any representations, warranties and
        agreements regarding Participant's investment intent and access to information
        as may be required by the Company to comply with applicable securities laws.
        If
        someone other than Participant exercises this Option, then such person must
        submit documentation reasonably acceptable to the Company that such person
        has
        the right to exercise this Option.  

4.2     Limitations
        on Exercise.     This
        Option may not be exercised unless such exercise is in compliance with all
        applicable federal and state securities laws, as they are in effect on the
        date
        of exercise. This Option may not be exercised as to fewer than 100 Shares
        unless
        it is exercised as to all Shares as to which this Option is then exercisable.

4.3     Payment.     The
        Exercise Agreement shall be accompanied by full payment of the Exercise Price
        for the Shares being purchased in cash (by check), or, if the Company in
        its
        discretion agrees in writing and where permitted by law: 

(a)
        by
        cancellation of indebtedness of the Company to the Participant; 

(b)
        by
        waiver of compensation due or accrued to Participant for services
        rendered; 

(c)
        provided that a public market for the Company's stock exists: (1) through
        a
        "same day sale" commitment from Participant and a broker-dealer that is a
        member
        of the National Association of Securities Dealers (an     "NASD
        Dealer"    )
        whereby
        Participant irrevocably elects to exercise this Option and to sell a portion
        of
        the Shares so purchased to pay for the exercise price and whereby the NASD
        Dealer irrevocably commits upon receipt of such Shares to forward the exercise
        price directly to the Company;    or   
        (2)
        through a "margin" commitment from Participant and a NASD Dealer whereby
        Participant irrevocably elects to exercise this Option and to pledge the
        Shares
        so purchased to the NASD Dealer in a margin account as security for a loan
        from
        the NASD Dealer in the amount of the exercise price, and whereby the NASD
        Dealer
        irrevocably commits upon receipt of such Shares to forward the exercise price
        directly to the Company; or 

(d)
        by
        any combination of the foregoing. 

4.4     Tax
        Withholding.     Prior
        to the issuance of the Shares upon exercise of this Option, Participant must
        pay
        or provide for any applicable federal or state withholding obligations of
        the
        Company. If the Committee permits, Participant may provide for payment of
        withholding taxes upon exercise of this Option by requesting that the Company
        retain Shares with a Fair Market   Value
        equal to the minimum amount of taxes required to be withheld. In such case,
        the
        Company shall issue the net number of Shares to the Participant by deducting
        the
        Shares retained from the Shares issuable upon exercise.  

2 

4.5     Issuance
        of Shares.     Provided
        that the Exercise Agreement and payment are in form and substance satisfactory
        to counsel for the Company, the Company shall issue the Shares registered
        in the
        name of Participant, Participant's authorized assignee, or Participant's
        legal
        representative, and shall deliver certificates representing the Shares with
        the
        appropriate legends affixed thereto.  

5.        Notice
        of Disqualifying Disposition of ISO Shares.      If
        this Option is an ISO, and if Participant sells or otherwise disposes of
        any of
        the Shares acquired pursuant to the ISO on or before the later of (a) the
        date two (2) years after the Date of Grant, and (b) the date one
        (1) year after transfer of such Shares to Participant upon exercise of this
        Option, then Participant shall immediately notify the Company in writing
        of such
        disposition. Participant agrees that Participant may be subject to income
        tax
        withholding by the Company on the compensation income recognized by Participant
        from the early disposition by payment in cash or out of the current wages
        or
        other compensation payable to Participant.  

6        Compliance
        with Laws and Regulations.      The
        exercise of this Option and the issuance and transfer of Shares shall be
        subject
        to compliance by the Company and Participant with all applicable requirements
        of
        federal and state securities laws and with all applicable requirements of
        any
        stock exchange on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed at the time
        of
        such issuance or transfer. Participant understands that the Company is under
        no
        obligation to register or qualify the Shares with the Securities and Exchange
        Commission, any state securities commission or any stock exchange to effect
        such
        compliance.  

7.        Non-transferability
        of Option.      This
        Option may not be transferred in any manner other than by will or by the
        laws of
        descent and distribution and may be exercised during the lifetime of Participant
        only by Participant. The terms of this Option shall be binding upon the
        executors, administrators, successors and assigns of Participant.  

8.        
        Tax Consequences.      Set
        forth below is a brief summary as of the Date of Grant of some of the federal
        tax consequences of exercise of this Option and disposition of the Shares.
        THIS
        SUMMARY IS NECESSARILY INCOMPLETE, AND THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT
        TO CHANGE. PARTICIPANT SHOULD CONSULT A TAX ADVISOR BEFORE EXERCISING THE
        OPTION
        OR DISPOSING OF THE SHARES.  

8.1     Exercise
        of ISO.     If
        this Option qualifies as an ISO, there will be no regular federal income
        tax
        liability upon the exercise of this Option, although the excess, if any,
        of the
        fair market value of the Shares on the date of exercise over the Exercise
        Price
        will be treated as a tax preference item for federal income tax purposes
        and may
        subject the Participant to the alternative minimum tax in the year of exercise.

8.2     Exercise
        of Nonqualified Stock Option.     If
        this Option does not qualify as an ISO, there may be a regular federal income
        tax liability upon the exercise of this Option. Participant will be treated
        as
        having received compensation income (taxable at ordinary income tax rates)
        equal
        to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the Shares on the date
        of
        exercise over the Exercise Price. The Company will be required to withhold
        from
        Participant's compensation or collect from Participant and pay to the applicable
        taxing authorities an amount equal to a percentage of this compensation income
        at the time of exercise.  

8.3     Disposition
        of Shares.     If
        the Shares are held for more than twelve (12) months after the date of the
        transfer of the Shares pursuant to the exercise of this Option (and, in the
        case
        of an ISO, are disposed of more than two (2) years after the Date of
        Grant), then any gain realized on disposition of the Shares will be treated
        as
        long term capital gain for federal   income
        tax purposes. If Shares purchased under an ISO are disposed of within one
        (1) year of exercise or within two (2) years after the Date of Grant,
        then any gain realized on such disposition will be treated as compensation
        income (taxable at ordinary income rates) to the extent of the excess, if
        any,
        of the fair market value of the Shares on the date of exercise over the Exercise
        Price. The Company will be required to withhold from Participant's compensation
        or collect from Participant and pay to the applicable taxing authorities
        an
        amount equal to a percentage of this compensation income at the time of
        exercise.  

3 

9.        Privileges
        of Stock Ownership.      Participant
        shall not have any of the rights of a stockholder with respect to any Shares
        until Participant exercises this Option and pays the Exercise Price.

10.        
        Interpretation.      Any
        dispute regarding the interpretation of this Agreement shall be submitted
        by
        Participant or the Company to the Committee for review. The resolution of
        such a
        dispute by the Committee shall be final and binding on the Company and
        Participant.  

11.        Entire
        Agreement.      The
        2005 Plan is incorporated herein by reference. This Agreement and the 2005
        Plan
        and the Exercise Agreement constitute the entire agreement and understanding
        of
        the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede
        all
        prior understandings and agreements with respect to such subject matter.

12.        
        Notices.      Any
        notice required to be given or delivered to the Company under the terms of
        this
        Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporate Secretary of
        the
        Company at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given
        or
        delivered to Participant shall be in writing and addressed to Participant
        at the
        address indicated above or to such other address as such party may designate
        in
        writing from time to time to the Company. All notices shall be deemed to
        have
        been given or delivered upon: personal delivery; three (3) days after
        deposit in the United States mail by certified or registered mail (return
        receipt requested); one (1) business day after deposit with any return
        receipt express courier (prepaid); or one (1) business day after
        transmission by telecopier with confirmation of successful transmission.

13.       Successors
        and Assigns.      T
        he Company may assign any of its rights under this Agreement. This Agreement
        shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns
        of
        the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein, this
        Agreement shall be binding upon Participant and Participant's heirs, executors,
        administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns.  

14.        
        Governing Law.      This
        Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal
        laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to that body of law pertaining
        to
        choice of law or conflict of law.  

15.        
        Acceptance.      Participant
        hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the 2005 Plan and this Agreement.
        Participant has read and understands the terms and provisions thereof, and
        accepts this Option subject to all the terms and conditions of the 2005 Plan
        and
        this Agreement. Participant acknowledges that there may be adverse tax
        consequences upon exercise of this Option or disposition of the Shares and
        that
        the Company has advised Participant to consult a tax advisor prior to such
        exercise or disposition.  

[Remainder
        of page intentionally left blank]  

4 

IN
        WITNESS WHEREOF   ,
        the
        Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized
        representative and Participant has executed this Agreement as of the Date
        of
        Grant.  

CELLEGY
                PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.       
                   
                   PARTICIPANT    

By: 

(Signature) 

(Please
                  print title) 

(Please
                  print name) 

(Please
                  print title)  

5 

CELLEGY
          PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.  

           2005
          EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN  

           DIRECTOR
          STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT   

This
          Director Stock Option Agreement (this     "Agreement"    )
          is made
          and entered into as of the date of grant set forth below (the     "Date
          of Grant"    )
          by and
          between Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
    "Company"    ),
          and
          the participant named below (    "Participant"    ).
          Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to
          them in
          the Company's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the     "2005
          Plan"    ).

Participant:  

           Social
          Security Number:  

           Participant's
          Address:   

Total
          Option Shares:  

           Exercise
          Price Per Share:  

           Date
          of Grant:  

           Vesting
          Start Date:  

           Expiration
          Date:  

           Type
          of Stock Option   

(Check
                    one):  

o    
                    Incentive Stock Option  

                     x    
                    Nonqualified Stock Option  

1.        
          Grant of Option    .  The
          Company hereby grants to Participant an option (this     "Option"    )
          to
          purchase up to the total number of shares of Common Stock of the Company
          set
          forth above (collectively, the     "Shares"    )
          at the
          Exercise Price Per Share set forth above (the     "Exercise
          Price"    ),
          subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the 2005
          Plan,
          including without limitation Section 5.11 of the 2005 Plan. This Option
          is
          granted pursuant to Section 5.11 of the 2005 Plan and is not intended to
          qualify
          as an "incentive stock option" (    "ISO"    )
          within
          the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
          (the     "Code"    ).
          Capitalized terms not defined in this Agreement will have the meanings
          given to
          them in the 2005 Plan. 

2.        
          Vesting; Exercise Period    .

2.1
             Vesting
          of Right to Exercise Option.     
          Subject to the terms and conditions of the 2005 Plan and this Grant, this
          Option
          shall vest and become exercisable as to one-third (   1   /  3  )
          of the
          Shares on the first anniversary of the Date of Grant. Thereafter, this
          Option
          shall vest as one-third (   1   /  3  )
          of the
          total Shares upon each of the next two (2) successive anniversaries of the
          Date of Grant, so long as the Optionee continuously remains a member of
          the
          Board of Directors of the Company (a     "Board
          Member"    ). 

2.2     Expiration.     This
          Option shall expire on the Expiration Date set forth above and must be
          exercised, if at all, on or before the earlier of the Expiration Date or
          the
          date on which this Option is earlier terminated in accordance with the
          provisions of Section 3.    

3.        
          Termination    .

3.1     Termination.     The
          Option shall cease to vest if the Participant ceases to be a Board Member
          (the
     Termination
          Date     ).
          If
          Participant is Terminated for cause, then this Option, to the extent (and
          only
          to the extent) that it would have been exercisable by Participant on the
          date of
          Termination, may be exercised by Participant (or the Participant s legal
          representative) no later than twelve (12) months after the Termination
          Date, but
          in no event later than the Expiration Date. 

3.2
             Acceleration
          of Options   .
          In the
          event of a corporate transaction of the kind described in Section 18 of
          the 2005
          Plan, the vesting of the Option will accelerate and the Option will become
          exercisable in full prior to the consummation of such event at such times
          and on
          such conditions as the Committee determines. 

6 

3.3     No
          Right to Remain a Director.     Nothing
          in the 2005 Plan or this Agreement shall confer on Participant any right
          to
          remain a Board Member or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate
          Participant's relationship with the Company at any time.  

4.        
          Manner of Exercise    .

4.1     Stock
          Option Exercise Agreement.     To
          exercise this Option, Participant (or in the case of exercise after
          Participant's death, Participant's executor, administrator, heir or legatee,
          as
          the case may be) must deliver to the Company an executed stock option exercise
          agreement in such form as may be approved by the Company from time to time
          (the
    "Exercise
          Agreement"    ),
          which
          shall set forth,    inter
          alia,    Participant's
          election to exercise this Option, the number of Shares being purchased,
          any
          restrictions imposed on the Shares and any representations, warranties
          and
          agreements regarding Participant's investment intent and access to information
          as may be required by the Company to comply with applicable securities
          laws. If
          someone other than Participant exercises this Option, then such person
          must
          submit documentation reasonably acceptable to the Company that such person
          has
          the right to exercise this Option.  

4.2     Limitations
          on Exercise.     This
          Option may not be exercised unless such exercise is in compliance with
          all
          applicable federal and state securities laws, as they are in effect on
          the date
          of exercise. This Option may not be exercised as to fewer than 100 Shares
          unless
          it is exercised as to all Shares as to which this Option is then exercisable.

4.3     Payment.     The
          Exercise Agreement shall be accompanied by full payment of the Exercise
          Price
          for the Shares being purchased in cash (by check), or, if the Company in
          its
          discretion agrees in writing and where permitted by law: 

(a)
          by
          cancellation of indebtedness of the Company to the Participant; 

(b)
          by
          waiver of compensation due or accrued to Participant for services
          rendered; 

(c)
          provided that a public market for the Company's stock exists: (1) through
          a
          "same day sale" commitment from Participant and a broker-dealer that is
          a member
          of the National Association of Securities Dealers (an     "NASD
          Dealer"    )
          whereby
          Participant irrevocably elects to exercise this Option and to sell a portion
          of
          the Shares so purchased to pay for the exercise price and whereby the NASD
          Dealer irrevocably commits upon receipt of such Shares to forward the exercise
          price directly to the Company;    or   
          (2)
          through a "margin" commitment from Participant and a NASD Dealer whereby
          Participant irrevocably elects to exercise this Option and to pledge the
          Shares
          so purchased to the NASD Dealer in a margin account as security for a loan
          from
          the NASD Dealer in the amount of the exercise price, and whereby the NASD
          Dealer
          irrevocably commits upon receipt of such Shares to forward the exercise
          price
          directly to the Company; or 

(d)
          by
          any combination of the foregoing. 

4.4     Tax
          Withholding.     Prior
          to the issuance of the Shares upon exercise of this Option, Participant
          must pay
          or provide for any applicable federal or state withholding obligations
          of the
          Company. If the Committee permits, Participant may provide for payment
          of
          withholding taxes upon exercise of this Option by requesting that the Company
          retain Shares with a Fair Market   Value
          equal to the minimum amount of taxes required to be withheld. In such case,
          the
          Company shall issue the net number of Shares to the Participant by deducting
          the
          Shares retained from the Shares issuable upon exercise.  

4.5     Issuance
          of Shares.     Provided
          that the Exercise Agreement and payment are in form and substance satisfactory
          to counsel for the Company, the Company shall issue the Shares registered
          in the
          name of Participant, Participant's authorized assignee, or Participant's
          legal
          representative, and shall deliver certificates representing the Shares
          with the
          appropriate legends affixed thereto.  

5.        Compliance
          with Laws and Regulations.      The
          exercise of this Option and the issuance and transfer of Shares shall be
          subject
          to compliance by the Company and Participant with all applicable requirements
          of
          federal and state securities laws and with all applicable requirements
          of any
          stock exchange on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed at the
          time of
          such issuance or transfer. Participant understands that the Company is
          under no
          obligation to register or qualify the Shares with the Securities and Exchange
          Commission, any state securities commission or any stock exchange to effect
          such
          compliance.  

7 

6.        Non-transferability
          of Option.      This
          Option may not be transferred in any manner other than by will or by the
          laws of
          descent and distribution and may be exercised during the lifetime of Participant
          only by Participant. The terms of this Option shall be binding upon the
          executors, administrators, successors and assigns of Participant.  

7.        
          Tax Consequences.      Set
          forth below is a brief summary as of the Date of Grant of some of the federal
          tax consequences of exercise of this Option and disposition of the Shares.
          THIS
          SUMMARY IS NECESSARILY INCOMPLETE, AND THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE
          SUBJECT
          TO CHANGE. PARTICIPANT SHOULD CONSULT A TAX ADVISOR BEFORE EXERCISING THE
          OPTION
          OR DISPOSING OF THE SHARES.  

7.1.
               Exercise
          of Nonqualified Stock Option.     Tthere
          may be a regular federal income tax liability upon the exercise of this
          Option.
          Participant will be treated as having received compensation income (taxable
          at
          ordinary income tax rates) equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market
          value
          of the Shares on the date of exercise over the Exercise Price. The Company
          may
          be required to withhold from Participant's compensation or collect from
          Participant and pay to the applicable taxing authorities an amount equal
          to a
          percentage of this compensation income at the time of exercise.  

8.        Privileges
          of Stock Ownership.      Participant
          shall not have any of the rights of a stockholder with respect to any Shares
          until Participant exercises this Option and pays the Exercise Price.

9.        
          Interpretation.      Any
          dispute regarding the interpretation of this Agreement shall be submitted
          by
          Participant or the Company to the Committee for review. The resolution
          of such a
          dispute by the Committee shall be final and binding on the Company and
          Participant.  

10.        Entire
          Agreement.      The
          2005 Plan is incorporated herein by reference. This Agreement and the 2005
          Plan
          and the Exercise Agreement constitute the entire agreement and understanding
          of
          the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede
          all
          prior understandings and agreements with respect to such subject matter.

11.        
          Notices.      Any
          notice required to be given or delivered to the Company under the terms
          of this
          Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporate Secretary
          of the
          Company at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given
          or
          delivered to Participant shall be in writing and addressed to Participant
          at the
          address indicated above or to such other address as such party may designate
          in
          writing from time to time to the Company. All notices shall be deemed to
          have
          been given or delivered upon: personal delivery; three (3) days after
          deposit in the United States mail by certified or registered mail (return
          receipt requested); one (1) business day after deposit with any return
          receipt express courier (prepaid); or one (1) business day after
          transmission by telecopier with confirmation of successful transmission.

12.       Successors
          and Assigns.      T
          he Company may assign any of its rights under this Agreement. This Agreement
          shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns
          of
          the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein,
          this
          Agreement shall be binding upon Participant and Participant's heirs, executors,
          administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns.  

13.        
          Governing Law.      This
          Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal
          laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to that body of law pertaining
          to
          choice of law or conflict of law.  

14.        
          Acceptance.      Participant
          hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the 2005 Plan and this Agreement.
          Participant has read and understands the terms and provisions thereof,
          and
          accepts this Option subject to all the terms and conditions of the 2005
          Plan and
          this Agreement. Participant acknowledges that there may be adverse tax
          consequences upon exercise of this Option or disposition of the Shares
          and that
          the Company has advised Participant to consult a tax advisor prior to such
          exercise or disposition.  

[Remainder
          of page intentionally left blank]  

8 

IN
          WITNESS WHEREOF   ,
          the
          Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized
          representative and Participant has executed this Agreement as of the Date
          of
          Grant.  

CELLEGY
                  PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.       
                     
                     PARTICIPANT    

By: 

(Signature) 

(Please
                    print title) 

(Please
                    print name) 

(Please
                    print
                    title) 

</EX-10.25>

<EX-10.30>
 4
 v038451_ex10-30.htm

Unassociated Document

FIRST
      AMENDED AND RESTATED EXCLUSIVE LICENSE AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT FOR
      RECTOGESIC   

Between  

STRAKAN
      INTERNATIONAL LIMITED  

And  

Cellegy
      Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

Confidential  

[*]  

designates
                portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to a request
                for
                confidential treatment filed separately with the
                Commission  

1 

FIRST
      AMENDED AND RESTATED   

       EXCLUSIVE
      LICENSE     AND
      DISTRIBUTION     AGREEMENT  

THIS
      FIRST AMENDED AND RESTATED EXCLUSIVE LICENSE   AND
      DISTRIBUTION LICENSE   AGREEMENT
      (this "    Agreement    ")
      is
      made and entered into as of   November
      9, 2005 (the      Agreement
      Date     ),
      by
      and between Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a   Delaware  
      corporation having its principal place of business at 1800 Byberry Road,
      Building 13, Huntingdon Valley, PA, 19006-3525 USA ("    Cellegy    "),
      and
      Strakan International Limited    ,    
      a
      company organized and existing under the laws of Bermuda with a branch office
      at
      Buckholm Mill, Galashiels, TD1 2HB, UK ("    Licensee     ").

BACKGROUND   

A.        Cellegy
      owns or possesses certain intellectual property rights with respect to the
      Licensed Product (as hereinafter defined) and certain rights pertaining to
      Cellegy s Marks (as hereinafter defined). 

B.        The
      Parties previously entered into an Exclusive License and Distribution Agreement
      (     Prior
      Agreement     )
      dated
      as of July 9, 2004 (the      Prior
      Agreement Date     ),
      pursuant to which Licensee obtained an exclusive license to certain rights
      to
      the Licensed Product under such intellectual property rights, and to Cellegy s
      Marks within the Territory (as hereinafter defined). 

C.        The
      Parties desire to amend the Prior Agreement in various respects, as reflected
      in
      this Agreement. 

AGREEMENT   

Commencing
      with the Agreement Date, this Agreement shall amend, restate and supersede
      in
      its entirety the Prior Agreement. In consideration of the foregoing and of
      the
      mutual covenants hereinafter set forth and other good and valuable
      consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties (as
      hereinafter defined) mutually agree as follows: 

ARTICLE
      1  

       DEFINITIONS  

As
      used
      in this Agreement, the following terms, whether used in the singular or the
      plural, shall have the following meanings: 

Affiliates     
shall
      mean, with respect to any party, any person, which, directly or indirectly,
      is
      controlled by, controls or is under common control with such party. For purposes
      of this definition, the term control (including with correlative meanings,
      the
      terms controlled by and under common control with) means having the power,
      whether held directly or indirectly and by whatever means (and whether or not
      enforceable at law or in equity) to: 

1 

(i)  
              exercise or control the right to vote
              attached to 50% or more of the issued shares in the party;  

(ii)     
             
                dispose
                of or exercise a right of disposal in respect of 50% or more of the
                issued
                voting shares in the party; 

(iii)  
             
                appoint
                one half or more of the number of directors to the board of the party;
                or 

(iv)  
              determine substantially the conduct
              of the
              party s business activities.  

Agreement     
means
      this First Amended and Restated Exclusive License and Distribution
      Agreement. 

Approvals     
are
      registration approvals, registrations or authorizations provided by the Relevant
      Regulatory Authority in the Territory for the importation, storage,   Development,
      promotion, marketing, distribution or sale of the Licensed Product, but
      excluding any pricing approvals that may be required by any Relevant Regulatory
      Authority of a country within the Territory. 

Cellegy
      Information     
means
      the technical and clinical information concerning the Licensed Product that
      is
      developed by Cellegy and that is included in the new drug application filed
      with
      the Relevant Regulatory Authority in   the
      United Kingdom  ,
      and
      Cellegy s European common technical document format, and which may include,
      without limitation, data in support of indications, bioequivalency data and
      information, clinical data, pharmaco-toxicological data, analytical methods,
      stability and pharmaceutical data concerning the Licensed Product, and any
      other
      of Cellegy s related supporting documentation or other information or
      materials  
      of
      Cellegy  
      in
      Cellegy s possession from time to time that Cellegy may in its discretion from
      time to time develop before the date that all required Approvals are obtained
      and that may be necessary for, or useful in connection with obtaining and
      maintaining Approvals for the Licensed Product in the Territory.  

Cellegy
      Marks     
means
      the trademarks, service marks and/or trade names owned by Cellegy or that
      Cellegy has the right to use in connection with the Licensed Product as set
      forth on    Exhibit
      C    hereto
      and as further described in Section 13.1, that are used by Licensee, its
      Affiliates or Sublicensees in connection with the importation, storage,
      Development, promotion, marketing, distribution and sale of the Licensed
      Product. 

Cellegy
      Patents     
means
      the patents identified on    Exhibit
      B   
      hereto. 

Cellegy
      Supply Agreement            means
      the
      supply agreement between Cellegy and Manufacturer governing the supply of the
      Licensed Product to Cellegy or Cellegy s nominees or licensees outside the
      Territory and incorporating the terms and conditions of a relevant Technical
      Agreement. 

2 

Commercially
      Reasonable and Diligent Efforts     
shall
      mean with respect to Development and commercialization of the Licensed Product,
      a Party s reasonable efforts no less than those efforts used by the Party in its
      other development, commercialization or marketing projects with other
      technologies and products having comparable commercial potential.  

Competing
      Licensed Products     
has
      the
      meaning set forth in Section 2.4. 

Development       
      (including variations such as  Develop  and the like) shall mean all appropriate
      measures, steps and the like that are necessary to prepare and compile dossiers
      appropriate for obtaining Approvals for the Licensed Product in the Territory
      and conducting clinical trials in the Territory (if required). As it relates
      to
      Cellegy,  Development  shall mean that Cellegy shall provide Licensee a copy of
      the dossier concerning the Licensed Product filed by Cellegy with the Relevant
      Regulatory Authority in   the
      United Kingdom  ,
      and
      such other materials relating thereto or to obtaining other Approvals for the
      Licensed Product in the Territory as Cellegy may in its discretion from time
      to
      time develop before the date that all required Approvals are
      obtained. 

Dollars     
or
           $ 
          means
      United States dollars. 

Prior
      Agreement Date       
      means
      the date set forth at the beginning of the Prior Agreement. 

Euros     
or
                       
      shall
      mean currency denominated in Euros. 

Field     
shall
      mean the use of the Licensed Product for the treatment of the pain associated
      with chronic anal fissure, for the treatment of one (1) or more of the symptoms
      associated with or related to hemorrhoids, and for any other additional
      therapeutic and medicinal uses of the Licensed Product within the
      Territory. 

GMP       
      means
      good manufacturing practices in conformity with the regulations and regulatory
      interpretations of the Relevant Regulatory Authorities in each country in the
      Territory, including without limitation EU cGMP such regulations covering good
      manufacturing practices set forth in the relevant legislation or guidelines
      and
      applicable to the Territory, as such regulations may be amended and interpreted
      by the Relevant Regulatory Authorities from time to time. 

Initial
      Indication     
      means
      the treatment of the pain associated with chronic anal fissure.  

Intellectual
        Property Rights       
        means
        all rights and interests, vested or arising out of any industrial or
        intellectual property, whether protected at common law or under statute,
        which
        includes (without limitation) the   Patent
        Rights,   Cellegy  
        Marks
        and Know-How and any rights and interests in inventions (both patentable
        and
        unpatentable), patents, copyrights, moral rights, designs (whether registered
        or
        unregistered), trade marks (whether registered or unregistered), trade secrets,
        goodwill, samples, materials, data, results and Confidential
        Information. 

3 

Know-How     
means
      all data, information, methods, procedures, processes and materials, which
      is or
      comes to be possessed, acquired, licensed or owned by Cellegy as of the Prior
      Agreement Date and from time to time thereafter, to the extent that such data,
      information, methods, procedures, processes and materials specifically relate
      to
      the manufacture, development, testing or use of the Licensed Product, including
      but not limited to, biological, chemical, biochemical, toxicological,
      pharmacological, metabolic, formulation, clinical, analytical and stability
      information and data (other than such Know-How which is the subject of a patent
      or of a provisional or filed patent application), and for which Cellegy has
      the
      right to license, disclose or provide to Licensee. 

Launch
      Date     
means
      following Approval the date upon which the Licensed Product is first
      commercially offered for sale in a country in the Territory, determined on
      a
      country by country basis.  

Licensed
        Product       
        means
        the   pharmaceutical
        product known as   Rectogesic 
          ointment  ,       
        a
  nitroglycerin
        ointment in any formulations or presentations for the treatment of pain
        associated with chronic anal fissure and, if Approvals are obtained, for
        the
        treatment of one or more   additional
        indications. 

Licensee
      Supply Agreement      
         means
      the
      supply agreement between Licensee and Manufacturer governing the supply of
      the
      Licensed Product to Licensee by Manufacturer for the Territory and incorporating
      the terms and conditions of a relevant Technical Agreement. 

Loss     
means
      any and all loss, liability, damage, fee, cost, (including without limitation
      actual reasonable court costs and reasonable attorneys  fees regardless of
      outcome) expense, suit, claim, demand, judgment and prosecution. 

Major
      European Countries     
      shall
      mean France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. 

Manufacturer           
      means
      the existing Third Party manufacturer of the Licensed Product or any other
      manufacturer that may in the future enter into a Cellegy Supply Agreement or
      a
      Licensee Supply Agreement.  

Marketing
      Authorization      means
      any
      approval (including any applicable pricing and governmental reimbursement
      approvals) in Licensee s name required to Develop, market and sell       the
      Licensed Product in a particular country in the Territory. 

         M.R.P           
      means
      the mutual recognition procedure as defined in Article 28 of European Directive
      2001/83/EC.  

Net
      Sales     
means
      the gross proceeds from sales of the Licensed Product that is due, or otherwise
      received by, Licensee, or its Affiliates or its Sublicensees from Third Party
      customers for such Licensed Product, less:     

4 

(i)  
                reasonable credited allowances actually
                granted to such Third Party customers 
                for spoiled, damaged, rejected, recalled, outdated or returned Licensed
                Product  ,   

(ii)     
               
                  the
                  amounts of reasonable trade and cash discounts actually allowed,
                  to the
                  extent such trade and cash discounts are specifically allowed on
                  account
                  of the purchase of such Licensed Product, 

(iii)  
               
                  sales
                  taxes, excise taxes, use taxes and import/export duties and any
                  other
                  government charges (other than taxes on income) actually due or
                  incurred
                  or paid by Licensee, or its Affiliates or Sublicensees, in connection
                  with
                  the sales of the Licensed Product to any Third Party, and

(iv)  
                reasonable allowances, adjustments,
                reimbursements, discounts, chargebacks and rebates actually granted
                to
                Third Parties, including, but not limited to, rebates given to health
                care
                organizations or other Third Parties, and any bona fide payment made
                in
                respect of any sales of Licensed Product to any governmental or
                quasi-governmental body or agency, whether during the actual  Sales
                Period  
                or
                not.   

Party           
      means
      Cellegy or Licensee, and Parties shall mean both Cellegy and
      Licensee. 

Patent
        Rights     
means
        (i) the patents and patent applications listed in    Exhibit
            B   
        hereto
        and any patents and patent applications existing as of the Prior Agreement
        Date;
        (ii) any patent or patent application hereafter which is acquired by Cellegy
        or
        under which Cellegy becomes licensed and with the right to sublicense to
        Licensee, during the term of this Agreement, in each case of (i) and (ii)
        above
        relating to the Licensed Product, its manufacture, use or sale, including
        methods of use and screening or processes that use the Licensed Product;
        (iii)
        any   divisionals,
        continuations and continuations-in-part defined in (i) or (ii); (iv) any
        extension, renewal or reissue or patent identified in any reissue or
        re-examination of any patent or patent application identified in (i) through
        (iv), in each case, to the extent that such items relate to the Licensed
        Product. Such items set forth in sub-items (i) through (iv) will be identified
        and added by the Parties to    Exhibit
        B   
        from
        time to time during the term of this Agreement. 

Relevant
      Regulatory Authority     ,
      in
      relation to a country or region in the Territory, means the governmental
      authority, regulating the use, importation, storage, Development, promotion,
      marketing, distribution or sale of therapeutic substances and the grant of
      Approvals in such country or region. 

Retained
      Information     
      means
      any and all books and records prepared and maintained by Cellegy now or in
      the
      future in connection with the Licensed Product, including, without limitation,
      in relation to any and all additional formulations, therapeutic and medicinal
      uses and further including, without limitation, all regulatory files (including
      correspondence with regulatory authorities), assays, test methods, batch
      records, analytical methods including validation protocol and the drug master
      file and stability studies in relation thereto in each case to the extent that
      Cellegy is permitted by law and under its agreements to provide such information
      to Licensee. 

5 

Sublicensee     
means
      any person to whom Licensee sublicenses the rights, or any portion thereof,
      granted by Cellegy to Licensee pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof. 

Technical
      Agreements         
      mean the
      agreements between Cellegy and Manufacturer for Product supplied outside the
      Territory, and between Strakan and Manufacturer for Licensed Product supplied
      within the Territory, defining the roles and responsibilities for the parties
      in
      relation to, inter alia, (i) manufacture and supply of the Licensed Product
      pursuant to GMP; and (ii) regarding regulatory, safety and pharmacovigilence
      issues, the terms and conditions of which are incorporated into any supply
      agreement for the Licensed Product.  

Territory     
means
      the countries listed on    Exhibit
      A        hereto.

Third
      Party     
means
      any party other than Cellegy or Licensee, or Licensee s Affiliates or
      Sublicensees. 

ARTICLE
      2  

       GRANT
      OF LICENSE  

2.1         Grant   .
      Cellegy
      grants to Licensee an exclusive  
      fully
      paid up license, with a right to sublicense as set forth herein, under all
      of
      Cellegy s Intellectual Property Rights to manufacture or have manufactured
      anywhere in the world, import, store, Develop, have Developed (through
      agreements with contract research organizations or similar Third Parties,
      performing work on behalf of and for the benefit of Licensee), promote, market,
      distribute, offer for sale, and sell the Licensed Product   in
      the
      Field   within
      the Territory, and to use Cellegy s Intellectual Property Rights and the
      Retained Information in connection with the manufacturing, importation, storage,
      Development, promotion, marketing,   distribution
      and sale of Licensed Product  
      in the
      Field within the Territory  
      and
      obtaining any Approvals hereunder. Licensee s rights to the Licensed Product and
      the Intellectual Property Rights are limited to those expressly granted, and
      all
      others are reserved to Cellegy. 

2.2         Right
      to sub-license   .
      Licensee may freely sub-license any of its rights or obligations under this
      Agreement, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part.  
      Any such
      sublicense shall not relieve Licensee of any of its obligations hereunder,
      and
      Licensee shall remain responsible and liable for compliance by any such Third
      Party, Affiliate or Sublicensee with this Agreement, all relevant laws,
      regulations and requirements relating to the manufacturing, importation,
      distribution, marketing, promotion and sale of the Licensed Product in the
      Territory, and any acts or omissions by any such Third Party, Affiliate or
      Sublicensee that would constitute a breach of this Agreement if such sublicense
      had not been entered into and the actions or omissions were those of Licensee
      rather than the Third Party, Affiliate or Sublicensee. Any sublicense agreement
      shall contain terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with those of
      this
      Agreement. 

2.3         Acceptance
      of Appointment; Sales Outside Territo   ry  . 

(a)        Licensee
      hereby accepts appointment as Cellegy's exclusive   licensee
      of Licensed Product in the Territory, as provided in Section 2.1
      above. 

6 

(b)        Licensee
      shall not, and Licensee shall use all Commercially Reasonable and Diligent
      Efforts to ensure that its officers, directors, employees, Affiliates, agents
      or
      representatives (collectively, "    Agents    ")
      shall
      not, without the prior written consent of Cellegy, directly or indirectly
      promote, sell, distribute or otherwise make available (for remuneration or
      gratuitously) Licensed Product outside the Territory or sell, distribute or
      otherwise make available (for remuneration or gratuitously) Licensed Product
      to
      persons outside the Territory for the purpose of resale or distribution (whether
      for remuneration or gratuitously) outside the Territory. Without limiting the
      foregoing, Licensee agrees to use all Commercially Reasonable and Diligent
      Efforts to ensure compliance with the preceding sentence, including without
      limitation placing appropriate notices on the labels of Licensed Products;
      provided, however, that Licensee shall not be obligated to include any notices
      in a particular country in the Territory that would conflict with any relevant
      requirements of the Relevant Regulatory Authority for such country, and
      Licensee s failure or refusal to include any such notices in such circumstances
      shall not constitute a breach of any provision of this Agreement.  

2.4         Competing
      Products   .
      Until
      June 30, 2007, or, if earlier, the maximum period of time permitted by
      applicable European Union regulations, Licensee shall not, and shall use all
      Commercially Reasonable and Diligent Efforts to ensure that its officers,
      directors, employees, Affiliates, Sublicensees, agents or representatives
      (collectively, "    Agents    ")
      shall
      not, directly or indirectly, promote, sell or distribute products within the
      Major European Countries that are directly competitive in the treatment of
        anal
      fissures     (the
           Competing
      Licensed Products     ).
        If
      applicable law or applicable European Union regulations provide that the
      foregoing covenant is unenforceable or require that the duration of the
      foregoing covenant be shorter than the term of this Agreement, then such
      provision shall be deemed automatically conformed in order to comply with
      applicable law or regulations. 

ARTICLE
      3  

       REPRESENTATIONS
      AND WARRANTIES  

3.1         Representations
      and Warranties of Cellegy    .      C  ellegy
      hereby represents and warrants to Licensee that: 

(a)        Cellegy
      is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under
      the laws of the State of   Delaware  ,
      with
      the corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to perform
      its obligations hereunder. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and
      the
      consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized
      by all requisite corporate action on the part of Cellegy. This Agreement has
      been duly executed and delivered by Cellegy and constitutes the valid, binding
      and enforceable obligation of Cellegy, subject to applicable bankruptcy,
      reorganization, insolvency, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors 
rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of
      equity. 

(b)        Except
      as
      disclosed by Cellegy to Licensee in a writing prior to the Agreement Date
      specifically referencing this Section 3.1(b), Cellegy is not subject to, or
      bound by, any provision of: (i) its certificate of incorporation or by-laws,
      (ii) any mortgage, deed of trust, lease, note, shareholders  agreement, bond,
      indenture, license, permit, trust, custodianship, or other instrument, agreement
      or restriction, or (iii) any judgment, order, writ, injunction or decree of
      any
      court, governmental body, administrative agency or arbitrator, that would
      prevent, or be violated by, or under which there would be a default as a result
      of, nor is the consent of any person required for, the execution, delivery
      and
      performance by Cellegy of this Agreement and the obligations contained herein,
      including without limitation, the grant to Licensee of the license described
      in
      Section 2.1 hereof. 

7 

(c)        Subject
      to the final sentence of this Section 3.1(c): (i)   Cellegy
      is the exclusive owner of all right, title and interest in the Patent
      Rights  
      in the
      applicable countries in the Territory  ;  
      (ii) the
      patent applications included in the Patent Rights have been duly filed and
      contain no material errors  ;
      and
  (iii)  
      Cellegy
      shall maintain all Patent Rights for the full duration of this Agreement
  or
      such
      earlier time, if any, as Licensee forecloses on the Patent Rights pursuant
      to
      Article 9. Attached hereto as    Exhibit
      B        is
      a
      complete and accurate list of all patents and patent applications included
      in
      the Patent Rights.  
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, as Cellegy has disclosed in its filings with
      the
      Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Opposition of the European
      Patent Office rendered a verbal decision revoking Cellegy s European patent
      relating to the Licensed Product; and although Cellegy has appealed this
      decision, Cellegy makes no representation or warranty regarding the outcome
      of
      the opposition and appeal process, the Cellegy Patent Rights may be held to
      be
      invalid or revoked, and any representation or warranty of Cellegy made herein
      regarding Cellegy Patent Rights is qualified in its entirety by the foregoing
      matters. 

(d)        Cellegy
      is the exclusive owner of all right, title and interest in the Cellegy Marks
        in
      the
      Territory. Cellegy shall maintain at its sole expense where applicable all
      Cellegy Marks for the full duration of this Agreement or such earlier time,
      if
      any, as Licensee forecloses on the Cellegy Marks pursuant to Article 9. Attached
      hereto as    Exhibit
      C   
      is a
      complete and accurate list of all trade marks and trade mark applications
      included in the Cellegy Marks. 

(e)        To
      the
      best of Cellegy s knowledge, neither the development, use or sale of the
      Licensed Product or the practice of any of the inventions included in the Patent
      Rights or the use of the Cellegy Marks or the use of the Know-How by Licensee
      as
      contemplated by this Agreement infringes upon any Third Party s know-how,
      patent, trade mark or other intellectual property rights in the
      Territory. 

(f)        To
      the
      best of Cellegy s knowledge, there is no Third Party using or infringing any or
      all of the Patent Rights or the Cellegy Marks in derogation of the rights
      granted to Licensee in this Agreement. 

(g)        Cellegy
      represents and warrants that, to the best of its knowledge, it has furnished
      or
      will furnish (in accordance with the terms of this Agreement) to Licensee all
      of
      the Know-How which Cellegy owns or possesses. 

(h)        CELLEGY
      MAKES NO REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OTHER THAN THOSE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED
      HEREUNDER, AND CELLEGY HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS
      OR
      IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, OR
      THE
      FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OF THE LICENSED PRODUCT OR THE KNOW-HOW.
      EXCEPT AS MAY BE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED ELSEWHERE HEREIN, CELLEGY MAKES NO
      REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY THAT THE LICENSED PRODUCT IS OR WILL BE SHOWN TO
      BE
      SAFE OR EFFECTIVE FOR ANY INDICATION. THE FOREGOING SHALL NOT REDUCE THE SCOPE
      OF ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF CELLEGY EXPRESSLY MADE TO LICENSEE
      HEREIN. 

8 

(i)        Cellegy
      will use all Commercially Reasonable and Diligent Efforts to ensure that Cellegy
      will   provide
      reasonable notice to Licensee of any significant changes to  
      the
      Cellegy Information supplied to Licensee or the materials or processes described
      in that information in relation to any Licensed Product. 

3.2         Representations
      and Warranties of Licensee   .
      Licensee hereby represents and warrants to Cellegy as follows: 

(a)        Licensee
      is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under
      the laws of Bermuda, having a branch office in the UK with the corporate power
      and authority to enter into this Agreement and to perform its obligations
      hereunder. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation
      of
      the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all requisite
      corporate action on the part of Licensee. This Agreement has been duly executed
      and delivered by Licensee and constitutes the valid, binding and enforceable
      obligation of Licensee, subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization,
      insolvency, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors  rights generally from
      time to time in effect and to general principles of equity. 

(b)        Licensee s
      Affiliates shall not conduct themselves in such a way that Licensee will be
      in
      breach of any term or condition of this Agreement. 

(c)        To
      the
      best of Licensee s knowledge, Licensee currently is in compliance in all
      material respects with all applicable laws and has received, or will receive
      where relevant, all applicable pharmaceutical product certifications and
      registrations from appropriate governmental entities that are necessary to
      perform its obligations under this Agreement. Licensee agrees that during the
      term of this Agreement it will comply in all material respects with all
      applicable laws and regulations regarding the export, sale and distribution
      of
      the Licensed Product in the Territory. 

ARTICLE
      4 

       APPROVAL
      AND MARKETING PLANS  

4.1         Approval
        Plan; Marketing Plan   .     The
        overall timetable to obtain Approvals for the Licensed Product in the Major
        European Countries has been set forth in a written plan by Licensee which
        Cellegy has approved (the      Approval
        Plan     ).
        In
        addition, Licensee   has
        prepared and Cellegy has approved   a
        marketing plan  
        in
        connection with the promotion, marketing and distribution of the Licensed
        Product in the Major European Countries (the      Marketing
        Plan     ).

9 

ARTICLE
      5  

       REGULATORY
      MATTERS; APPROVALS  

5.1         Regulatory
      Matters; Approvals   . 

(a)        Licensee
      shall use Commercially Reasonable and Diligent Efforts, subject to this
      Agreement,   to
      obtain
      at its sole expense all Approvals that are necessary for the sale of the
      Licensed Product within the Territory for the Initial Indication only, including
      without limitation any additional clinical trials, studies or data in addition
      to the Cellegy Information that may be required in order to obtain or maintain
      Approvals for the Licensed Product in each country in the Territory for the
      Initial Indication, and comply with any and all applicable statutory,
      administrative or regulatory requirements of the Territory or any governmental
      or political subdivisions thereof (collectively, "    Laws    ")
      in
      relation to the manufacture, importation, storage, Development, promotion,
      marketing, distribution or sale of the Licensed Product in the Territory under
      this Agreement, including, without limitation, Licensed Product documentation
      such as Licensed Product tracking, samples, Licensed Product complaints, adverse
      event reporting requirements, post-marketing surveillance activities, and
      documentation of recalls, which documentation shall be maintained by the
      Licensee for the period required by the Relevant Regulatory Authorities in
      the
      Territory notwithstanding termination or expiration of this Agreement, any
      Licensed Product registrations with any government agency or health authority,
      or any registration, approvals, or filing of this Agreement.   Licensee
      shall inform Cellegy on at least a semi-annual basis (and more frequently if
      Cellegy so reasonably requests) about the progress of such registration work,
      and will promptly provide Cellegy with a copy of all presentations and documents
      submitted by Licensee to any Relevant Regulatory Authority with respect to
      the
      Licensed Product. Cellegy shall, upon Licensee s written request, provide
      reasonable assistance to Licensee, at Licensee s sole cost, regarding obtaining
      such Approvals in the Territory, including allowing Licensee reasonable access
      to relevant experts in relation to the Cellegy Information for the purpose
      of
      obtaining Approvals.  

(b)        With
      respect to indications other than the Initial Indication, Licensee shall be
      responsible for the conduct of such clinical trials or studies as Licensee
      may
      in its discretion undertake.  

(c)         Utilizing
        the United Kingdom Marketing Authorization for the Licensed
        Product   
        Licensee
  will
        make
        filings that are required to seek and obtain Approvals for the Licensed Product
        in each other Major European Country through the M.R.P provided that the
        dossier
        used in the United Kingdom is acceptable for use in an MRP application. If
        the
        Relevant Regulatory Authority in a country other than   the
        United Kingdom  
        determines that such dossier is not complete or acceptable for the initiation
        of
        an M.R.P. application in such country, then the parties shall meet and attempt
        to agree on an appropriate course of action. If Licensee desires to not seek
        Approvals in one or more Major European Countries because Licensee concludes
        in
        good faith that for regulatory or marketing reasons it would not be in the
        parties  best interests to pursue Approvals in such countries, it shall notify
        Cellegy and if Cellegy disagrees, the parties shall meet in good faith to
        attempt to agree whether Approvals will be sought in such country or countries.
        If alteration by Cellegy of the Cellegy Information after the date of this
        Agreement requires additional time to submit or revise regulatory filings
        relating to Approvals, then the time periods set forth above for making filings
        and obtaining Approvals shall be extended by the additional period of time
        required to submit or revise such filings.   Licensee
        shall have no liability nor shall it be deemed to be in breach of this Agreement
        in the event that Approvals are not obtained in any or all other Major European
        Countries or in any other country in the Territory. 

10 

(d)        With
      the
      exception of the   assignment
      of the   Approval
      that Cellegy has obtained in   the
      United Kingdom     and
      such
      other materials as Cellegy in its discretion may provide to Licensee pursuant
      to
      this Agreement, Licensee shall pay all costs in connection with the filing,
      prosecution, meetings, communications, and review by Relevant Regulatory
      Authorities of Approval applications and Approvals relating to the Licensed
      Product in the Territory and complying with applicable laws and
      regulations. 

5.2         Cooperation
      Regarding Material Events   .
      Each
      Party will immediately notify the other Party of any material events relating
      to
      the Development of the Licensed Product in the Territory, including, without
      limitation, any material comments or concerns raised by any Relevant Regulatory
      Authority.  
      To the
      extent either Party receives written or material oral communication from any
      Relevant Regulatory Authority relating to the Licensed Product in the Territory,
      the party receiving such communication shall notify the other parties and
      provide a copy of any written communication as soon as reasonably practicable.

5.3         Copies
      of Documents   .
      Each
      Party agrees to provide to the other Party a copy of (i) any documents or
      reports relating to the Licensed Product that are filed with any Relevant
      Regulatory Authority in the Territory under this Agreement, including any
      Approval applications; and (ii) all data, database information and safety
      reports from clinical trials conducted by or on behalf of Licensee. In
      particular, Licensee acknowledges that Cellegy has provided to Licensee a copy
      of the dossier concerning the Licensed Product filed in   the
      United Kingdom  .
      All
      such documents and reports shall be centralized and held at Licensee or by
      a
      Third Party selected by Licensee and agreed to by Cellegy, provided however,
      that Cellegy shall be entitled to obtain and keep copies of any such documents
      and records but only for the uses specifically set forth in this
      Agreement. 

5.4         Meetings
      With Regulatory Authorities   .     Licensee
      shall be responsible for conducting all meetings and discussions and routine
      telephone communications with any   Relevant
      Regulatory Authority, related to clinical studies, Approval applications and
      Approvals for the Licensed Product in the Territory. Licensee will keep Cellegy
      apprised of all material communications with such Relevant Regulatory
      Authorities.  

5.5         Clinical
      Trials   .
      Licensee shall at its own cost be responsible for the conduct of all studies
      and
      clinical trials that may be necessary or appropriate to obtain all required
      Approvals   (  with
      the
      exception of the Approval for the United Kingdom that has been
      obtained  )
      and any
      post-Approval Clinical Trials and for the grant of all necessary approvals
      and
      maintaining in effect all appropriate policies of insurance for clinical trials
      for the use of the Licensed Product in the Territory. Licensee agrees to provide
      such data and materials regarding any such studies or trials as Cellegy may
      reasonably request, and Cellegy may use such materials for its own business
      purposes in connection with obtaining or maintaining Approvals for the Licensed
      Product in other jurisdictions outside the Territory. Licensee may enter into
      one or more manufacturing and supply agreement(s) (or similar arrangements)
      with
      Third Party contract manufacturer(s) for such clinical supplies.  

11 

5.6         Cellegy
      Obligations   .
      Promptly following entering into this Agreement Cellegy shall, to the extent
      it
      has not already done so pursuant to the Prior Agreement: 

(a)        provide
      Licensee with a complete copy of the Cellegy Information  
      as well
      as copies of clinical data, analysis and reports of Cellegy or its other
      licensees of the Licensed Product in other countries (to the extent in Cellegy s
      possession and that Cellegy is permitted to provide such information under
      the
      terms of its agreements with such licensees, with Cellegy agreeing to use
      commercially reasonable efforts after the date of this Agreement to include
      provisions in agreements with other licensees of the Licensed Product to permit
      the sharing of such data, analysis and reports from licensees)  ; 

(b)        provide
      Licensee with any information in its possession that is reasonably likely to
      jeopardize or otherwise have a material adverse impact on the application,
      or
      any grant, maintenance, variation or renewal of the Approvals; 

(c)           use
      commercially reasonable efforts to assist Licensee to enter into Licensee Supply
      Agreement and Technical Agreement with the Manufacturer; and  

(d)        notify
      Licensee and promptly provide all relevant assistance and supporting
      documentation to Licensee and Manufacturer, where relevant, should Cellegy
      make
      any alteration to the Licensed Product, or the manufacture, or packing of the
      Licensed Product that requires notification to a Relevant Regulatory
      Authority. 

5.7         Approvals   . 

(a)        All
      Approvals by any Relevant Regulatory Authority which are necessary to sell
      the
      Licensed Product within the Territory shall be issued to, owned by  
      and held
      in the name of Licensee.  

(b)        Licensee
      shall promptly provide to Cellegy, upon Cellegy's request, such evidence that
      Cellegy shall reasonably require, confirming that all Approvals necessary to
      import, store, Develop, promote, market, distribute and sell the Licensed
      Product in the Territory have been obtained.  

(c)        Cellegy
      hereby acknowledges that, except as may otherwise be required by law, Licensee
      has no obligation to verify the Cellegy Information.  

12 

ARTICLE
      6 

       POST-
      APPROVAL RESPONSIBILITIES  

6.1         Responsibility   .
      Each
      Party acknowledges that Licensee or the Affiliate or Sublicensee named by
      Licensee as the holder of the Approvals bears the ultimate responsibility
   vis- -vis   
      the
      Relevant Regulatory Authorities for complying with the regulatory requirements
      applicable to the manufacture, importation, storage, Development, promotion,
      marketing, distribution and sale of the Licensed Product in the Territory.

6.2         Collaboration   .
      The
      Parties shall collaborate with each other and each Party agrees to provide
      the
      other Party with any reasonable assistance it may require to ensure compliance
      with the Approvals.  

6.3         Insurance   .
      To the
      extent commercially available, both Parties shall maintain in full force and
      effect for the term of this Agreement and for five (5) years thereafter product
      liability insurance and property damage insurance on its operations naming
      the
      other Party as an additional insured, with terms reasonably satisfactory to
      the
      other Party. The amount and extent of coverage of the insurance required
      hereunder, if any, shall be not less than a single limit liability of not less
      than U.S. $5 million in one claim and in the aggregate, and each Party shall
      furnish to the other Party copies of policies of insurance or certificates
      evidencing the existence and amounts of such insurance within thirty (30) days
      of the other Party s request for such copies. Each Party shall provide the other
      Party with written notice of any cancellation of any insurance hereunder at
      least thirty (30) days prior to such cancellation.  

ARTICLE
      7 

       INFORMATION;
      DATA; PHARMACOVIGILENCE  

7.1         Clinical
      Data   .
      (a) All
      clinical  
      data and
      reports related to clinical trials for the Licensed Product in the Territory
      shall be owned by the Party funding such clinical trial(s). Other than to a
      Sublicensee in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement,
      Licensee shall not sell, disclose to or share with any Third Party, or grant
      any
      Third Party right to use, any clinical data arising owned by Licensee as a
      result of the preceding sentence. Each Party shall have access to, and copies
      of, all such data and reports related to clinical trials for the Licensed
      Product in the Territory, and each Party may use such data without any
      additional payments to the other Party. Each Party shall treat such data and
      reports as Confidential Information of the other Party, and neither Party shall
      disclose or use such data or reports for any purpose other than performing
      its
      obligations under this Agreement or as otherwise expressly authorized in writing
      by the other party except to the extent that data or reports are required by
      the
      voluntary or compulsory prior registration of a clinical trial, and except
      for
      such disclosures as a Party reasonably believes is required by securities or
      regulatory laws or regulations. If a Party itself obtains data from a clinical
      trial hereunder, it shall promptly transfer all of the clean, final data for
      such trial to Licensee or to Cellegy, as the case may be. The parties shall
      coordinate the transfers of any such data.  

7.2         Safety
      Data Base   .
      The
      Parties will, as soon as practical, organize a serious adverse event data base
      (the      SAE
      Data Base     ).
      Cellegy and Licensee shall jointly own the SAE Data Base and all data contained
      therein, and the data from the SAE Data Base shall be  made
      available to both Parties. Licensee shall be responsible for, and bear the
      costs
      of, data for the SAE Data Base related to the Territory. Cellegy shall be
      responsible for, and bear the costs of, data for the SAE Data Base related
      to
      territories outside the Territory. The provisions governing the management
      of
      such SAE Data Base shall be agreed separately by the
      Parties.  

13 

[*]
      designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to a
      request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
      Commission  

7.3         Adverse
      Events   .
      The
      Parties recognize that as the holder of the Approvals, Licensee will be required
      to submit information and file reports to various governmental agencies on
      compounds under clinical investigation, compounds proposed for marketing, or
      marketed drugs. The process and responsibilities for such reports will be
      governed by the Adverse Event Reporting Addendum separately agreed to by the
      Parties.  

7.4         Product
      Complaints   .
      Each
      Party will maintain a record of all non-medical and medical Licensed
      Product-related complaints and will notify the other Party of any complaint
      in a
      sufficient time to allow the other Party to comply with any regulatory
      requirements it may have with respect to such complaint.  
      The
      details and responsibilities governing the management of such Licensed
      Product-related complaints shall be agreed separately by the
      Parties. 

7.5         Further
      Development   .
      For the
      avoidance of doubt, Licensee shall be free and clear to conduct further
      development (including conducting clinical trials), formulation work for any
      and
      all additional therapeutic and medicinal uses of the Licensed Product within
      the
      Territory and to sub-license its rights obtained hereunder within the Territory
      without the need for consent or any further payment or compensation due to
      Cellegy whatsoever. Licensee shall provide information relating to such
      development, work and uses as provided above. 

7.6         Access
      and Use of Retained Information, Future Information and
      Personnel.   
      At any
      time on or after the Agreement Date at no cost to Licensee: (i) Cellegy shall
      cooperate with Licensee in making Retained Information available; (ii) Cellegy
      shall use reasonable efforts to make available to Licensee for a minimum period
      of    [*]   
      certain
      Cellegy personnel identified separately in writing, to assist, inter alia,
      Licensee in relation to the MRP; and (iii) Cellegy shall furnish copies of
      such
      Retained Information for review by Licensee, to the extent practicable, at
      the
      reasonable request of Licensee. At any time on or after the Agreement Date
      at no
      cost to Cellegy, Licensee shall cooperate with Cellegy in making any information
      developed by or on behalf of Licensee or its licensees relating to any further
      development (including conducting clinical trials and any related technical
      or
      clinical data, analysis and reports), formulation work and clinical trials
      for
      any and all additional therapeutic and medicinal uses of the Licensed Product
      within the Territory. 

ARTICLE
      8  

       MILESTONE    
      PAYMENTS  

8.1         Milestone
      Payments   .
      After
      the Agreement Date, Licensee shall pay Cellegy milestone payments in the
      particular amounts specified below  
      (with
      all payments to be made in U.S. Dollars)  :     
      Licensee
      shall pay to Cellegy three (3) milestone payments, each milestone
      being 

14 

[*]
      designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to a
      request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
      Commission  

the
      amount of    [*]   
      for each
      Approval obtained in the first of    [*]   
      up to a
      maximum total amount payable of    [*]   .
      Such
      payments shall be due no later than    [*]   
      after
      achievement of the milestone. 

8.2         Sales
        Milestones   .
        In
        addition, Licensee shall pay Cellegy the following amounts, within [*] after
        the
        end of the month in which the relevant milestone is achieved: 

(a)         [    *]  

(  b  )         [*]  

(  c  )        Licensee
        shall provide to Cellegy sufficient information from time to time regarding
        Licensed Product sales to enable Cellegy to determine whether one or more
        of the
        above milestones have been satisfied.  

(  d  )        Licensee s
        obligations to pay sales milestones under this Section shall terminate and
        be of
        no further force or effect on June 30, 2007 and Licensee shall not be deemed
        to
        be in breach of this Article 8.2 if it fails to achieve such Net Sales referred
        to above prior to June 30, 2007. 

8.3         Fee
      Conditions   .     Each
      and
      every payment made under this Article shall be independent,  
      non-refundable, and shall not be considered an advance or credit on any
      royalties or other obligation received or owe  d 

ARTICLE
      9 

       SECURITY
      INTEREST IN CELLEGY PATENTS AND CELLEGY MARKS  

9.1         Definitions   .
          For
          purposes of this Article, the following terms shall have the following
          meanings: 

Obligations    
means
      the performance in all material respects of Cellegy s obligations to Licensee
      under this Agreement. 

Collateral    
means
      the Cellegy Patents and the Cellegy Marks. 

UCC    
means
      the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time in the State of
      California or any other state (including without limitation Delaware) the laws
      of which are required to be applied in connection with the perfection of
      security interests. 

9.2         Security
      Interest   .
      In
      consideration of and as security for the full and complete performance of the
      Obligations, Cellegy hereby grants to Licensee a security interest in the
      Collateral, subject to the rights of any Third Party separately identified
      in
      writing by Cellegy to Licensee before the date of this Agreement expressly
      referencing this Section. 

15 

9.3         Default   .

(a)      If
      Licensee
      terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 16.2 (an      Event
      of Default     ),
      then
      Licensee shall have the rights and remedies of a secured party under the UCC.
      In
      addition to exercising any other rights or remedies that Licensee may have
      at
      law or in equity, Licensee may, at its option, and without demand first made,
      exercise any one or all of the following rights and remedies: (i) collect the
      Collateral and its proceeds; (ii) take possession of the Collateral wherever
      it
      may be found, using all reasonable means to do so, or require Cellegy to
      assemble the Collateral and make it available to Licensee at a place designated
      by Licensee which is reasonably convenient to Cellegy; (iii) proceed with the
      foreclosure of the security interest in the Collateral granted herein and the
      sale or endorsement and collection of the proceeds of the Collateral in any
      manner permitted by law or provided for herein; and (iv) sell, lease or
      otherwise dispose of the Collateral at public or private sale, with or without
      having the Collateral at the place of sale, subject to the notice requirement
      below. 

(b)         No
      Election of Remedies   .
      The
      election by Licensee of any right or remedy will not prevent Licensee from
      exercising any other right or remedy against Cellegy. 

(c)         Sales
      of Collateral   .
      Any
      item of Collateral may be sold for cash or other value at public or private
      sale
      or other disposition and the proceeds thereof collected by or for Licensee.
      Cellegy agrees to promptly execute and deliver, or promptly cause to be executed
      and delivered, such instruments, documents, assignments, waivers, certificates
      and affidavits and supply or cause to be supplied such further information
      and
      take such further action as Licensee may require in connection with any such
      sale or disposition. Licensee will have the right upon any such public sale
      or
      sales, and, to the extent permitted by law, upon any such private sale or sales,
      to purchase the whole or any part of the Collateral so sold, free of any right
      or equity of redemption in Cellegy, which right or equity is hereby waived
      or
      released. If any notice of a proposed sale, lease, license or other disposition
      of Collateral shall be required by law, such notice shall be deemed reasonable
      and proper if given at least ten (10) days before such sale, lease, license
      or
      other disposition. Licensee agrees to give Cellegy thirty (30) days prior
      written notice of any sale, lease, license or other disposition of Collateral
      (or any part thereof) by Licensee.  

(d)         Application
      of Proceeds   .
      The
      proceeds of all sales and collections in respect of the Collateral, the
      application of which is not otherwise specifically herein provided for, will
      be
      applied as follows: (i) first, to the payment of the costs and expenses of
      such
      sale or sales and collections and the attorneys' fees and out-of-pocket expenses
      incurred by Licensee relating to costs of collection; (ii) second, to
      satisfaction of the Obligations; and (iii) third, any surplus then remaining
      will be paid to Cellegy. 

(e)         Cooperation   .
      Upon
      the occurrence of an Event of Default and foreclosure on the Collateral by
      Licensee, Cellegy will cooperate with Licensee and execute such instruments
      of
      assignment and transfer as Licensee may reasonably request in order to vest
      Licensee with ownership of the Collateral. 

16 

[*]
      designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to a
      request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
      Commission  

ARTICLE
      10  

       MARKETING  

10.1         General
      Promotional Duties   .        Licensee
      shall: (i) not make false or misleading representations to customers or other
      persons with regard to the Licensed Product, and (ii) subject to sub-clause
      (i),
      shall not make any representations with respect to the specifications, features
      or capabilities of the Licensed Product which are not consistent with the
      relevant Approvals.  

10.2         Marketing
      Effort; Minimum Expenditures for Commercialization   .
      At all
      times prior to June 30, 2007, Licensee agrees to exert its Commercially
      Reasonable and Diligent Efforts to introduce, promote and, sell the Licensed
      Product within the Major European Countries following receipt of Marketing
      Authorization in such Major European Countries and minimum satisfactory (in
      Licensee s sole opinion) reimbursement price. 

10.3         Minimum
      Sales   .  
      At all
      times prior to June 30, 2007, Licensee shall use Commercially Reasonable and
      Diligent Efforts to achieve agreed annual minimum unit sales of Licensed Product
      in each Major European Country and commencing in each such country upon the
         [*]   
      from
      launch and representing    [*]   
      of the
      sales forecasts of the Licensed Product in each Major European Country as set
      forth in the Marketing Plan (     Minimum
      Sales     ).

ARTICLE
      11  

       MANUFACTURING;
      SUPPLY OF LICENSED PRODUCT  

11.1         Production
          and Supply of Product   . 

(a)        During
      the term of this Agreement or thereafter, Cellegy reserves the right, without
      obligation or liability to Licensee, to manufacture, have manufactured, produce,
      assemble, warehouse or source the   Licensed     Product
      for sale outside of the Territory at any worldwide location, including Canada
      or
      the United States of America and locations within or outside the Territory.

(b)        Cellegy
        agrees to use all Commercially Reasonable and Diligent   Efforts  
        to  
        (i)  
        maintain
        its existing Cellegy Supply Agreement with the existing Manufacturer until
          at
        least     March
        31,
        2006, (ii)  
        cooperate with Licensee with the goal that, prior to the establishment of
        the
        Licensee Supply Agreement, Licensee may purchase Licensed Product directly
        from
        the Manufacturer  ,
        and
        (iii) until Licensee enters into a Licensee Supply Agreement, cooperate with
        Licensee to involve Licensee in discussions between Cellegy and Manufacturer
        concerning product pricing or other material terms of the Cellegy Supply
        Agreement.      

11.2         Forecasts.   
      Until
      such time as Licensee enters into a Licensee Supply Agreement,  
      Licensee
      shall be responsible for combining (if practicable in Licensee s sole opinion)
      its forecast for Licensed Product in the Territory and Cellegy s forecast for
      Licensed Product outside the Territory and for delivering all combined forecasts
      for the Parties to the Manufacturer providing that both Cellegy and Licensee
      are
      utilizing the same Manufacturer. Should the Parties decide to utilize separate
      manufacturers, each Party will be responsible for providing their Manufacturer
      with its own forecasts. Additional details concerning relating to orders from
      the Manufacturer shall be mutually agreed upon and set forth on    Exhibit
      E   . 

17 

11.3         Additional
      Manufacturing Location   .
      Either
      Cellegy or Licensee may initiate activities relating to the establishment of
      a
      Manufacturer within the Territory  . 

11.4         Payment   .
        In
      consideration of the amendments to the Prior Agreement and the execution of
      this
      Agreement concerning the purchase by Licensee of Licensed Products, at the
      Agreement Date Licensee shall deliver to Cellegy the amount of    [*]   
      by
      electronic funds transfer to the bank account designated by Cellegy in writing.
      Cellegy agrees that after the Agreement Date, Licensee shall have no further
      obligation to pay Cellegy any amounts with respect to the purchase of Licensed
      Products from the Manufacturer or other manufacturers, including with respect
      to
      purchase order no. 05-1180 dated October 31, 2005.  

11.5          Warranty
      Limitation, Disclaimer     .    
      Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, the sole warranty, if any,
      given by Cellegy regarding any Licensed Product shall be that written limited
      warranty, if any, which shall accompany such Licensed Product or which shall
      otherwise be designated in writing by Cellegy as applicable to such Licensed
      Product, as the same may be revised by Cellegy from time to time. After the
      initial commercial launch of the Licensed Product, subsequent changes to the
      written limited warranty must be approved by Licensee, which approval shall
      not
      be unreasonably withheld. THE WRITTEN LIMITED WARRANTY, IF ANY, APPLICABLE
      TO
      ANY PARTICULAR PRODUCT SHALL STATE THE FULL EXTENT OF CELLEGY S LIABILITY
      WHETHER DIRECT OR INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL, RESULTING FROM ANY BREACH
      OF SUCH WARRANTY. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT WITH RESPECT
      TO WARRANTIES MADE TO LICENSEE, CELLEGY FURTHER DISCLAIMS ALL EXPRESS, STATUTORY
      AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES APPLICABLE TO THE LICENSED PRODUCT.  

11.6            Recalls   . 

(a)        Licensee
        may  
        recall
        any quantity of Licensed Product at any time, and Licensee will administer
        any
        such recall in the Territory.  

(b)        If
      the
      Relevant Regulatory Authority requires or otherwise initiates a recall of the
      Licensed Product for any reason whatsoever, Licensee will immediately administer
      the recall. 

18 

ARTICLE
      12 

       PATENT
      RIGHTS  

12.1         No
      Ownership By Licensee   .
      Except
      as provided in Article 9, Licensee shall not be deemed by anything contained
      in
      this Agreement or done pursuant to it to acquire any right, title or interest
      in
      or to the Cellegy Patent Rights or any patent owned by or licensed to Cellegy
      now or hereafter covering or applicable to any Licensed Product, nor in or
      to
      any invention or improvement, owned by Cellegy, now or hereafter embodied in
      the
      Licensed Product, whether or not such invention or improvement is patentable
      under the laws of any country.  

12.2         New
      Cellegy Inventions/Improvements to the Licensed Product   .
      If
      Cellegy develops and commercially offers: 

(a)        any
      improvements in terms of dosage, route of administration or formulation of
      the
      Licensed Product for the same indication; or 

(b)        any
      improvement in terms of dosage, route of administration or formulation of any
      product derived from the Licensed Product for the same indication;
      then 

such
      improvements shall be included within the definition of Licensed Product herein
      at no additional costs to Licensee.  

12.3         Improvements
      by Licensee   .
      If,
      during the term of this Agreement other than where Cellegy is in material breach
      or if Article 9 applies in which case this article 12.3 shall not apply ,
      Licensee or any Sublicensee invents or designs any improved Licensed Product
      or
      any associated method, apparatus, equipment or process related to or having
      application to the Licensed Product, or makes an improvement thereon, whether
      or
      not patented or patentable in any jurisdiction, Licensee shall make or cause
      a
      prompt and full disclosure to Cellegy of such invention, design or improvement
      (     Licensee
      Improvement     ),
      and
      hereby irrevocably transfers, conveys and assigns to Cellegy all of its right,
      title and interest therein. Licensee shall execute such documents, render such
      assistance, and take such other action as Cellegy may reasonably request, at
      Cellegy s expense, to apply for, register, perfect, confirm, and protect
      Cellegy s rights therein. Cellegy shall have the exclusive right to apply for or
      register any patents or other proprietary protections with respect thereto.
      Such
      Licensee Improvements shall be licensed back from Cellegy to Licensee as, and
      shall be deemed part of, the Licensed Product, at no additional cost to
      Licensee.  

ARTICLE
      13  

       CELLEGY
      MARKS     

13.1         Use
      of
      Cellegy Marks by Licensee   .
      Licensee, its Affiliates and Sublicensees will have the exclusive right to
      use
      Cellegy s Mark   Rectogesic 
      in the Territory in connection with the importation, storage, Development,
      promotion, marketing, distribution and sale of Licensed Product. In such event,
      Licensee and its Affiliates (and Sublicensees) shall use Cellegy s Marks only in
      the form and manner prescribed by Cellegy. In no event shall Licensee use any
      of
      Cellegy s Marks or any similar mark or term as part of its business name. Should
  Rectogesic   
      not be
      registered or registerable by Cellegy in all countries of the Territory, then
      Cellegy may notify Licensee that   another
        Cellegy  
      trademark  
      will be
      used; and if no such marks are registered or registerable by Cellegy in all
      countries of the Territory, then Licensee may propose an alternative trade
      mark/s for Cellegy s approval, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or
      delayed  .  
      Cellegy
      shall apply for and maintain such alternative trade mark at Cellegy s sole
      expense and such alternate trade mark shall become a Cellegy Mark under the
      terms of this Agreement.      For
      the
      avoidance of doubt the Licensee shall be free to choose, use and own a different
      trademark to the Cellegy Marks in relation to the Licensed Product. 

19 

13.2         Acknowledgment
      of Ownership   .
      Except
      as provided in Article 9 Licensee acknowledges that  

(a)        Cellegy
      owns Cellegy s Marks and all goodwill associated with or symbolized by Cellegy s
      Marks; 

(b)        Licensee
      has no ownership right in or to any of Cellegy s Marks; and  

(c)        Licensee
      shall acquire no ownership interest in or to any of Cellegy s Marks by virtue of
      this Agreement. Licensee shall do nothing inconsistent with Cellegy's ownership
      of Cellegy s Marks and related goodwill, shall not directly or indirectly
      contest the validity of or Cellegy s rights in the Cellegy Marks, and agrees
      that all use of Cellegy s Marks by Licensee shall inure to the benefit of
      Cellegy. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute or result
      in an
      assignment of any of Cellegy s Marks to Licensee or the creation of any
      equitable or other interests therein. Licensee shall not use any of Cellegy s
      Marks in any manner as a part of its business, corporate or trade
      name. 

13.3         Marking   .
      Licensee shall mark all advertising, promotional or other materials created
      by
      it and bearing any of Cellegy s Marks (the      Licensee
      Material     )
      with
      such notices as Cellegy may reasonably require, including, but not limited
      to,
      notices that Cellegy s Marks are trademarks of Cellegy and are being used with
      the permission of Cellegy. 

13.4         Registration      .     
      Cellegy
      shall have the sole right to take such action as it deems appropriate to obtain
      trademark registration in the Territory for any of Cellegy s Marks. If it shall
      be necessary for Licensee to be the applicant to effect any such registrations,
      Licensee shall cooperate with Cellegy to effect any such registrations, and
      hereby does assign all of its right, title and interest in and to each such
      application, and any resulting registration, to Cellegy, and shall execute
      all
      papers and documents necessary to effectuate or confirm any such assignment.
      Licensee shall perform all reasonable and necessary acts and execute all
      necessary documents to affect the registration of Cellegy s Marks as Cellegy may
      request, all at Cellegy's sole expense. Licensee shall not obtain or attempt
      to
      obtain in the Territory, or elsewhere, any right, title or interest,
      registration, or otherwise, in or to Cellegy s Marks, or any of them. In the
      event that any such right, title or interest should be obtained by Licensee
      in
      contravention hereof, Licensee shall hold the same on behalf of Cellegy and
      shall transfer the same to Cellegy upon request and without expense to
      Cellegy. 

20 

13.5         Trademarks   .
      Licensee further agrees not to use any Cellegy marks in connection with any
      products other than the Licensed Product. Licensee also will include the
      appropriate trademark notices when referring to any Licensed Product in
      advertising and promotional materials. Licensee covenants and warrants that
      Licensee's use of Cellegy s Marks or other trademarks, trade names, logos and
      designations of Cellegy on any Licensed Product, Licensed Product packaging
      or
      labels, or related materials that Licensee or its Agents prepare or use will
      be
      in accordance with Cellegy s reasonable intellectual property policies in effect
      from time to time, including but not limited to trademark usage and cooperative
      advertising policies. Licensee agrees not to attach any additional trademarks,
      trade names, logos or designations to any Licensed Product except in compliance
      with such policies or otherwise with Cellegy s prior written consent, which
      shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld. Licensee will include on each
      Licensed Product that it distributes, and on all containers and storage media
      therefor, all trademark, copyright and other notices of proprietary rights
      included by Cellegy on such Licensed Product. Licensee agrees not to alter,
      erase, deface or overprint any such notice on anything provided by Cellegy.
      Licensee also will include the appropriate trademark notices when referring
      to
      any Licensed Product in advertising and promotional materials. Licensee shall
      submit to Cellegy for its prior written approval (which shall not be
      unreasonably delayed or withheld) and before any use is made thereof,
      representative samples of the initial Licensed Product, packages, containers,
      and advertising or promotional materials bearing any of Cellegy s Marks which
      Licensee or its Sublicensees prepare, but need not seek prior approval for
      subsequent uses of such materials that are in compliance with Cellegy s
      policies. Licensee shall also submit to Cellegy for its prior written approval
      (which shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld) any such materials that
      may not be consistent with Cellegy s intellectual property policies in effect
      from time to time, and Cellegy shall use all reasonable efforts to respond
      promptly to give its approval or indicate the respects in which changes are
      required in light of Cellegy s policies. Cellegy and Licensee shall cooperate
      with each other and use reasonable efforts to protect the Cellegy Marks from
      infringement by Third Parties. 

ARTICLE
      14  

      INFRINGEMENT;
      INDEMNIFICATION AND OTHER CLAIMS 

14.1         Infringement
      of Intellectual Property Rights   .
      In the
      event Cellegy or Licensee have reason to believe that a Third Party may be
      infringing or diluting, as the case may be, Intellectual Property Rights or
      misappropriating the Licensed Product, such Party shall promptly notify the
      other Party. Cellegy may, in its discretion, elect to enforce the Intellectual
      Property Rights through legal action or otherwise, and Licensee agrees to
      reasonably cooperate with Cellegy in such enforcement subject to reimbursement
      of its reasonable out-of-pocket expenses together with any reasonable attorneys
      fees incurred in connection therewith. In the event Cellegy elects not to
      enforce the Patent Rights relating to the Licensed Product within sixty (60)
      days after notice of the possible infringement or dilution, and Licensee can
      demonstrate that the potential infringement or dilution is reasonably likely
      to
      result in material lost sales of the Licensed Product within the applicable
      country, then Licensee may institute a lawsuit or other such actions at its
      expense to prevent continuation of such potential infringement or dilution,
      and
      then  
      Licensee
      will retain all award, damages or compensation obtained by Licensee in such
      suit. Cellegy will provide reasonable cooperation with respect to any lawsuit
      which Licensee may bring pursuant to this Article, subject to reimbursement
      of
      its reasonable out-of-pocket expenses and reasonable attorneys fees in
      connection therewith. Licensee shall not enter into any settlement or compromise
      of any such claim without the prior written consent of Cellegy, which shall
      not
      be unreasonably delayed or withheld. 

21 

14.2         Alleged
      Infringement of Third Party Intellectual Property Rights   . 

(a)        If
      a
      claim or lawsuit is brought against Licensee alleging infringment of any patent
      or infringement or dilution of any trademark owned by a Third Party arising
      from
      Licensee s importation, storage, Development, promotion, marketing, distribution
      and sale     of
      the
      Licensed Product or use of proprietory rights, Licensee shall provide to Cellegy
      all information in Licensee s possession regarding such claim or lawsuit. Within
      a reasonable time after receiving notice of such claim or lawsuit, but in any
      event within sixty (60) days after receiving such notice, Cellegy shall advise
      Licensee of Cellegy s decision as what action it plans to take to dispose of
      such claim or defend such lawsuit. 

(b)        If
      Cellegy elects not to dispose of such claim or defend such lawsuit, Licensee
      may
      defend the claim or lawsuit. Licensee shall not enter into any settlement or
      compromise of any such claim or lawsuit without the prior written consent of
      Cellegy, which shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld. For the purpose
      of
      Licensee s conduct of the claim or defense, Cellegy shall furnish to Licensee
      such reasonable assistance as Licensee may need and from time to time reasonably
      request.  

14.3         Notice
      from Licensee   .
      Licensee shall promptly notify Cellegy of any potential or actual litigation
      or
      governmental activity in the Territory relating to the Licensed Product or
      the
      business operations of Licensee or Cellegy. Licensee shall provide such notice
      within ten (10) days from the time that Licensee learns of such litigation
      or
      activity. 

14.4         Indemnification   .

(a)        Cellegy
      assumes all risk of loss and indemnifies and holds harmless Licensee, its
      Affiliates, Sublicensees and their respective directors, officers and employees
      from and against any and all Loss arising from or incidental to or relating
      to
      any claim, demand, lawsuit, action or proceeding (a      Claim     )
      arising from or relating to: 

(i)        any
      claim
      or lawsuit which relates to or arises out of the alleged infringement by
      Licensee of any patent or trademark owned by a Third Party to the extent that
      the alleged infringement relates to actions covered by the Exclusive License
      granted to Licensee under Section 2.1 of this Agreement; 

(ii)        the
      importation, storage, Development, promotion, marketing, distribution or sale
      of
      the Licensed Product based on action or inaction of Cellegy; 

22 

(iii)        a
      Product
      Liability Claim based on action or inaction of Cellegy; or 

(iv)        any
          negligence or willful default of Cellegy relating to the Licensed Product
          or
          this Agreement; or any  
          material  
          breach
          by Cellegy of any representation or warranty given in this Agreement;
          or 

(v)        any
      claim
      by a Third Party against Cellegy or Licensee that entering into this Agreement
      is a material breach of, or is prohibited by, any agreement between Cellegy
      and
      such Third Party. 

(b)        Any
      indemnification by, Cellegy pursuant to a claim made under this Section shall
      be
      subject to the following limitations: 

(i)        no
      indemnification shall be payable unless the aggregate of all Losses for which
      Cellegy would be liable exceeds on a cumulative basis an amount equal to
      $50,000, and then in such circumstances Licensee shall be entitled to demand
      an
      indemnity for the total aggregate of all Losses; 

(ii)        no
      indemnification shall be payable for any individual items (or series of related
      individual items) where the Loss relating thereto is less than $10,000, in
      which
      case such items shall not be aggregated; 

(iii)        no
      indemnification shall be payable in excess of an aggregate amount equal to
      the
      sum of $2,000,000 and any additional payments made under Section 8.2; and

(iv)        no
      indemnification shall be payable to the extent the liability or obligation
      is
      directly caused by any action taken or omitted to be taken by Licensee or any
      of
      its Affiliates or Sublicensees. 

(c)        Licensee
      assumes all risk of loss and indemnifies and holds harmless Cellegy from all
      Loss arising from or incidental to or relating to any claim, action or
      proceeding arising from or relating to: 

(i)        the
      importation, storage, Development, promotion, marketing, distribution, or sale,
      of the Licensed Product based on action or inaction of Licensee, Affiliates,
      Sublicensees or their respective directors, officers and employees (Licensee
      and
      such other Persons sometimes referred to as      Licensee
      Indemnified Persons     

(ii)        any
      Product Liability claim based on action or inaction of any Licensee Indemnified
      Person; 

(iii)           any
      breach by any Licensee Indemnified Person of any representation or warranty
      given in this Agreement; any negligence or willful default of any Licensee
      Indemnified Person relating to the Licensed Product or this Agreement;
      or 

23 

(iv)        any  
      material  
      breach
      by Licensee of any representation or warranty given in this
      Agreement. 

(d)           In
      order
      for a party (the "    Indemnified
      Party    ")
      to be
      entitled to any indemnification provided for under this Agreement in respect
      of,
      arising out of or involving a claim made by any Person against the Indemnified
      Party (a "    Third
      Party Claim    "),
      such
      Indemnified Party must notify the indemnifying party (the "    Indemnifying
      Party    ")
      in
      writing (and in reasonable detail) of the Third Party Claim within 15 days
      after
      receipt by such Indemnified Party of notice of the Third Party Claim; provided,
      however, that failure to give such notification shall not affect the
      indemnification provided hereunder except to the extent the Indemnifying Party
      shall have been actually prejudiced as a result of such failure (except that
      the
      Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any expenses incurred during the
      period in which the Indemnified Party failed to give such notice). Thereafter,
      the Indemnified Party shall deliver to the Indemnifying Party, within ten days
      after the Indemnified Party's receipt thereof, copies of all notices and
      documents (including court papers) received by the Indemnified Party relating
      to
      the Third Party Claim.  

(e)        Subject
      to the provisions of Section 14.1 and 14.2, if a Third Party Claim is made
      against an Indemnified Party, the Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to
      participate in the defense thereof and, if it so chooses, to assume the defense
      thereof with counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party. Should the Indemnifying
      Party so elect to assume the defense of a Third Party Claim, the Indemnifying
      Party shall not be liable to the Indemnified Party for any legal expenses
      subsequently incurred by the Indemnified Party in connection with the defense
      thereof. If the Indemnifying Party assumes such defense, the Indemnified Party
      shall have the right to participate in the defense thereof and to employ
      counsel, at its own expense, separate from the counsel employed by the
      Indemnifying Party, it being understood that the Indemnifying Party shall
      control such defense. The Indemnifying Party shall be liable for the fees and
      expenses of counsel employed by the Indemnified Party for any period during
      which the Indemnifying Party has not assumed the defense thereof (other than
      during any period in which the Indemnified Party shall have failed to give
      notice of the Third Party Claim as provided above). If the Indemnifying Party
      chooses to defend or prosecute a Third Party Claim, all the indemnified parties
      shall cooperate in the defense or prosecution thereof. Such cooperation shall
      include the retention and (upon the Indemnifying Party's request) the provision
      to the Indemnifying Party of records and information that are reasonably
      relevant to such Third Party Claim, and making employees available on a mutually
      convenient basis to provide additional information and explanation of any
      material provided hereunder. Whether or not the Indemnifying Party assumes
      the
      defense of a Third Party Claim, the Indemnified Party shall not admit any
      liability with respect to, or settle, compromise or discharge, such Third Party
      Claim without the Indemnifying Party's prior written consent (which consent
      shall not be unreasonably withheld). If the Indemnifying Party assumes the
      defense of a Third Party Claim, the Indemnified Party shall agree to any
      settlement, compromise or discharge of a Third Party Claim that the Indemnifying
      Party may recommend and that by its terms obligates the Indemnifying Party
      to
      pay the full amount of the liability in connection with such Third Party Claim,
      which releases the Indemnified Party completely in connection with such Third
      Party Claim and that would not otherwise materially adversely affect the
      Indemnified Party.  

24 

(f)         Other
      Claims   .
      In the
      event any Indemnified Party should have a claim against any Indemnifying Party
      that does not involve a Third Party Claim being asserted against or sought
      to be
      collected from such Indemnified Party, the Indemnified Party shall deliver
      notice of such claim with reasonable promptness to the Indemnifying Party.
      The
      failure by any Indemnified Party so to notify the Indemnifying Party shall
      not
      relieve the Indemnifying Party from any liability that it may have to such
      Indemnified Party hereunder, except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party
      demonstrates that it has been materially prejudiced by such failure. If the
      Indemnifying Party disputes its liability with respect to such claim, the
      Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party shall proceed in good faith to
      negotiate a resolution of such dispute and, if not resolved through
      negotiations, such dispute shall be resolved as provided in Section 18.14.

ARTICLE
      15 

       CONFIDENTIALITY  

15.1         Treatment
      of Confidential Information   .
      Except
      as otherwise provided in this Article 15, during the term of this Agreement
      and
      for a period of five (5) years thereafter, Licensee and its Affiliates will
      retain in confidence and use only for purposes of this Agreement any
      information, data, and materials supplied by Cellegy or on behalf of Cellegy
      to
      Licensee and its Affiliates under this Agreement, and Cellegy will retain in
      confidence and use only for purposes of this Agreement any information, data,
      and materials supplied by Licensee or on behalf of Licensee to Cellegy under
      this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, all such information and data
      which a party is obligated to retain in confidence shall be called      Confidential
      Information    . 
For
      the avoidance of doubt, Cellegy Information shall constitute Confidential
      Information of Cellegy. 

15.2         Right
      to Disclose   .
      To the
      extent it is reasonably necessary or appropriate to fulfill its obligations
      or
      exercise its rights under this Agreement or any rights which survive termination
      or expiration hereof, Licensee may disclose Confidential Information to its
      Affiliates, Sublicensees, consultants, outside contractors, clinical
      investigators or other Third Parties on condition that such entities or persons
      agree in writing (a) to keep the Confidential Information confidential for
      the
      same time periods and to the same extent as Licensee is required to keep the
      Confidential Information confidential and (b) to use the Confidential
      Information only for such purposes as Licensee is entitled to use the
      Confidential Information. Each Party or its Affiliates or sublicensees may
      disclose such Confidential Information to government or other regulatory
      authorities to the extent that such disclosure (i) is reasonably necessary
      to
      obtain Approvals; or (ii) is otherwise legally required. 

15.3         Release
      From Restrictions   .
      The
      foregoing obligations in respect of disclosure and use of Confidential
      Information shall not apply to any part of such Confidential Information that
      the non-disclosing party, or its Affiliates (all collectively referred to as
      the
     Receiving
      Party     )
      can
      demonstrate by contemporaneously prepared written evidence: 

(a)        is
      or
      becomes part of the public domain other than by acts of the Receiving Party
      in
      contravention of this Agreement; 

25 

(b)        is
      disclosed to the Receiving Party or its Affiliates or Sublicensees by a Third
      Party, provided such Confidential Information was not obtained by such Third
      Party directly or indirectly from the other party under this
      Agreement; 

(c)        prior
      to
      disclosure under this Agreement, was already in the possession of the Receiving
      Party or its Affiliates or Sublicensees, provided such Confidential Information
      was not obtained, directly or indirectly, from the other party under this
      Agreement; or 

(d)        results
      from research and development by persons who have not had access to the
      disclosures made to Receiving Party under this Agreement, including any
      information obtained through the testing, manufacturing regulatory approval,
      or
      distribution of the Licensed Product, or other activities undertaken in
      connection with this Agreement by the Receiving Party. 

15.4         Confidentiality
      of Agreement   .
      Except
      as otherwise required by law or the terms of this Agreement or mutually agreed
      upon by the Parties, each Party shall treat as confidential the terms,
      conditions and existence of this Agreement, except that each Party may disclose
      such terms and conditions and the existence of this Agreement to its Affiliates,
      sublicensees, and shareholders to the extent required by the any corporate
      laws,
      and provided, that each Party shall seek confidential treatment of the key
      business terms contained in this Agreement, including but not limited to all
      payments owed hereunder.   Notwithstanding
      the foregoing, t  he
        Parties
      may make such public announcements as they determine including any required
      by
      law or applicable stock exchange requirements. 

15.5         Return
      of Confidential Information   .
      Upon
      termination of this Agreement with respect to the entire Territory, the Parties
      and Affiliates and sublicensees shall return all Confidential Information of
      the
      other Party, in their possession along with a certification that they no longer
      possess any such Confidential Information. 

15.6         Previous
      Confidentiality Agreements   .
      Confidential information disclosed by either Party to the other Party or its
      Affiliates prior to the Prior Agreement Date under any written agreement
      executed by Cellegy and Licensee shall be treated as Confidential Information
      under Section 15.1 notwithstanding expiration of such prior Confidentiality
      Agreement.  

ARTICLE
      16  

       TERM;
      TERMINATION  

16.1         Term   .
      Unless
      terminated sooner pursuant to this Article 16, this Agreement shall become
      effective as of the Agreement Date and shall continue in full force and effect
      without term  ;
      provided, however, that the license to the Cellegy Patent Rights shall expire
      with respect to a particular country upon the later of (i) the date of
      expiration of the last to expire of the Cellegy Patent Rights in the particular
      country, or (ii) if earlier, the latest date permitted by applicable law,
      determined on a country-by-country basis.  

16.2            Termination
      Rights   .

26 

[*]
      designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to a
      request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
      Commission  

16.2.1  
   Licensee
      may terminate this Agreement in whole or in part upon the occurrence of any
      of
      the following: 

(a)        Cellegy
      becomes the subject of voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency case; or 

(b)        Cellegy
      becomes the subject of an involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency case that is
      not
      dismissed within ninety (90) days; or 

(c)        Upon
      or
      after the material breach of any provision of this Agreement by Cellegy, if
      such
      material breach is not cured (if such default is capable of cure) within thirty
      (30) days after written notice thereof. 

16.2.2      Cellegy
      may terminate this Agreement: 

(a)        If
      Licensee becomes the subject of a voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency case up
      until June 30, 2007; or 

(b)        If
      Licensee becomes the subject of an involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency case
      that is not dismissed within ninety (90) days up until June 30, 2007
      ;or 

(c)        If
      Licensee is in breach of its payment obligations under Sections 8.1 or 11.4
      and
      in no other circumstance and only if payment is not then made within thirty
      (30)
      days of receiving notice of such breach. 

16.3         Licensee s
      Right to Terminate    .   
      Licensee
      may terminate this Agreement; (i) immediately on written notice on health or
      safety grounds in relation to the Licensed Product; (ii) immediately on written
      notice if   Approvals
      is not obtained, through no fault of Licensee, in all Major European Countries
         [*]   
      of MRP
      being initiated; (  iii  )
      on
   [*]   
      written
      notice to Cellegy should it no longer be economically viable to market the
      Licensed Product, based on Licensee s reasonable opinion and determined on a
      country by country basis; or (  iv  )
         [*]   
      if a
      claim by any Third Party that the Intellectual Property Rights infringe such
      Third Party s patent, trade mark, protected know-how or other intellectual
      property right is made against Licensee and which either (A) prevents use of
      the
      Licensed Product in any country of the Territory for a period of    [*]   ,
      or (B)
      is not being challenged by either Party pursuant to Article 14 in relation
      to
      such country.  

16.4         Cellegy s
      Rights Upon Termination under Section 16.2.2    .
      Termination of this Agreement shall not extinguish debts and other obligations
      created or arising between the Parties by virtue of contracts or arrangements
      entered into hereunder before the effective date of termination of this
      Agreement (the "    Termination
      Date    ").
      Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the circumstance where
      Cellegy terminates in the circumstances set out in Section 16.2.2 upon and
      following the Termination Date: 

27 

(a)        Licensee
      shall be permitted to store, promote, sell and distribute such Licensed Product
      as well as any Licensed Product in Licensee's inventory within the Territory,
      subject to the provisions of paragraph (h) below and provided that Licensee
      shall not sell or otherwise dispose any of the Licensed Product in bulk, in
      any
      non-customary manner or otherwise circumvent its regular customers. 

(b)        Licensee
      shall cooperate with Cellegy to allow for the orderly transfer of Approvals
      within the Territory to Cellegy or its designee upon request and without expense
      to Cellegy. Licensee shall provide Cellegy with (i) full and immediate access
      to
      and copies of all marketing and sales information and other materials pertaining
      to the Licensed Product, including, without limitation, customer lists, past
      sales history and Licensed Product pricing information, and (ii) any inventions
      or other materials or rights required to be assigned to Cellegy pursuant to
      this
      Agreement. Notwithstanding any other term or provision of this Agreement,
      effective upon the Termination Date, Licensee shall execute any documents that
      are necessary to transfer to Cellegy, or Cellegy s designee, all Approvals or
      intellectual property which are then in the name of and/or held by Licensee
      and
      which relate to the marketing or sale of the Licensed Product (the      Relevant
      Documents     ).
      In
      the event that full Approvals for any Licensed Product in the Territory are
      not
      completed before any transfer of operations pursuant to this Article, Licensee
      shall also transfer to Cellegy or Cellegy s designee, free of any charge, the
      Cellegy Information and all the data submitted to the Relevant Regulatory
      Authorities therefor. At Cellegy s request, Licensee shall authorize Cellegy s
      nominee, without any delay, to perform all the required activities in order
      to
      obtain the transfer of such permits and registration rights. If Licensee fails
      to execute the Relevant Documents, it hereby appoints Cellegy as its agent
      and
      authorizes Cellegy to act on its behalf, in order to execute all Relevant
      Documents. Licensee, its Affiliates and Sublicensees shall terminate any use
      of
      the Cellegy Marks and shall, at Cellegy s option, either destroy or return to
      Cellegy at Licensee s cost all literature, labels, or other materials,
      incorporation or bearing same.  

(c)        Each
      party shall cease to use any of the other party s Confidential Information
      relating to or in connection with its continued business operations and shall
      promptly return or assign to the other party any and all physical, written
      and
      descriptive matter (including all reproductions and copies thereof) containing
      that party s Confidential Information, provided that each party
      may: 

(i)        provide
      one copy of the other party s Confidential Information to its legal advisers to
      be held by them solely for the purpose of determining the scope of that party s
      obligations under this clause; 

(ii)       retain
      one copy of such of the other party s Confidential Information that is required
      by the Relevant Regulatory Authorities in the Territory, to be retained by
      that
      party; and 

(iii)       retain
      any documents confidential to it (including board papers, strategic plans and
      operational reviews) in which the other party s Confidential Information is
      incorporated, provided that such confidential information shall continue to
      be
      treated as Confidential Information hereunder. 

28 

(d)        Upon
      expiration or termination for any reason, the obligations of confidentiality
      and
      use of Confidential Information under Article 15 shall survive for the period
      provided therein; 

(e)        Upon
      expiration or termination for any reason, Articles 14 and 16 of this Agreement
      shall survive for the maximum duration permitted by law; and 

(f)        Articles
      5, 8 and 9 shall survive until all outstanding payment obligations and reporting
      obligations of Licensee and its Affiliates and Sublicensees have been fulfilled,
      and Sections 9.3 and 9.4 shall survive for two years following the year in
      which
      such or expiration became effective. 

16.5         Licensee s
      Rights upon Termination   .
      Where
      Licensee terminates this Agreement in accordance with the terms hereof Licensee
      shall have an irrevocable fully paid up exclusive license under the Intellectual
      Property Rights and Retained Information and, where Licensee terminates this
      Agreement pursuant to the provisions of Section 16.2.1(c) above, Licensee shall
      have no obligation to Cellegy to make any further milestone under Section 8.1
      or
      sales milestones under Section 8.2 or other payments or compensation of any
      kind
      that may have fallen due after the Termination Date. 

ARTICLE
      17  

       REGISTRATION
      OF LICENSE; LIMITATION OF LIABILITY  

17.1         Registration   .
      Licensee may, at its expense, register the exclusive license granted under
      this
      Agreement in any country of the Territory where the government of such country
      would require one for use, sale or distribution of the Licensed Product in
      such
      country and Cellegy shall reasonably cooperate in such registration at
      Licensee s expense. Upon request by Licensee, Cellegy agrees promptly to execute
      any  short form  licenses developed in a form reasonably acceptable to both
      Licensee and Cellegy and reasonably submitted to it by Licensee from time to
      time in order to effect the foregoing registration in such country at no cost
      to
      Licensee. 

17.2         Limitation
      of Liability   .  
      NEITHER
      PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
      DAMAGES, WHETHER BASED ON BREACH OF CONTRACT, WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING
      NEGLIGENCE) OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT SUCH PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF
      THE
      POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY, NEITHER
      PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUBJECT MATTER
      OF
      THIS AGREEMENT UNDER ANY CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHER LEGAL
      OR EQUITABLE THEORY FOR ANY AMOUNTS IN EXCESS OF THE AMOUNTS RECEIVED BY CELLEGY
      FROM LICENSEE HEREUNDER. THIS LIMITATION WILL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING ANY FAILURE
      OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY PROVIDED HEREIN. 

29 

ARTICLE
      18  

       GENERAL
      PROVISIONS  

18.1         Force
      Majeure   .
      Neither
      Party shall be held liable or responsible to the other Party nor be deemed
      to
      have defaulted under or breached this Agreement for failure or delay in
      fulfilling or performing any term of this Agreement, other than an obligation
      to
      make payments hereunder, when such failure or delay is caused by or results
      from
      fire, floods, embargoes, government regulations, prohibitions or interventions,
      war, acts of war (whether war be declared or not), insurrections, riots, civil
      commotions, strikes, lockouts, acts of God or any other cause beyond the
      reasonable control of the affected party to anticipate, prevent, avoid or
      mitigate (a      Force
      Majeure Event     
      provided, however, that any failure or delay in fulfilling a term of this
      Agreement shall not be considered a result of a Force Majeure Event if it arises
      from a failure of Licensee or Cellegy to comply with applicable laws and
      regulations. In the event of force majeure lasting more than sixty days (60)
      days, the Parties agree to meet and discuss how this Agreement can be justly
      and
      fairly implemented under the circumstances prevailing in such Country or
      Countries and if the Parties are unable to agree upon how the Agreement can
      be
      implemented then either Party may terminate the Agreement in relation to such
      country or countries upon sixty (60) days written notice. 

18.2         Further
      Assurances   .
      Each
      Party to agrees to perform such acts, execute such further instruments,
      documents or certificates, and provide such cooperation in proceedings and
      actions as may be reasonably requested by the other Party in order to carry
      out
      the intent and purpose of this Agreement, including without limitation the
      registration or recordation of the rights granted hereunder.    

18.3         Severability   .
      Both
      Parties hereby expressly acknowledge and agree that it is the intention of
      neither party to violate any public policy, statutory or common law, rules,
      regulations, treaty or decision of any government agency or executive body
      thereof of any country or community or association of countries and specifically
      agree that if any word, sentence, paragraph, clause or combination thereof
      in
      this Agreement is found by a court or executive body with judicial powers having
      jurisdiction over this Agreement or any of the parties hereto in a final
      unappealed order, to be in violation of any such provisions in any country
      or
      community or association of countries, then in such event such words, sentences,
      paragraphs, clauses or combination shall be inoperative in such country or
      community or association of countries and the remainder of this Agreement shall
      remain binding upon the parties hereto. 

18.4         Notices      .     
      Any
      notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing and
      shall
      be deemed to have been properly given if delivered in person, or by an
      internationally recognized overnight courier, or by facsimile (and promptly
      confirmed by overnight courier), to the addresses given below or such other
      addresses as may be designated in writing by the parties from time to time
      during the term of this Agreement. Any notice sent by overnight courier as
      aforesaid shall be deemed to have been given two (2) working days after
      sending. 

30 

18.5         Assignment      .     
      This
      Agreement may not be assigned or otherwise transferred by either Party without
      the written consent of the other Party such consent not to be unreasonably
      withheld or delayed;    provided   ,
         however   ,
      that
      either Party may, without such consent, assign this Agreement (i) in connection
      with the transfer or sale of all or substantially all of its business related
      to
      this Agreement; or (ii) in the event of the merger or consolidation of such
      Party with another corporation; or (iii) to an Affiliate. Any permitted assignee
      shall assume all obligations of its assignor under this Agreement. 

18.6         Amendment   .
      The
      parties hereto may amend, modify or alter any of the provisions of this
      Agreement, but only by a written instrument duly executed by both parties
      hereto. 

18.7         Entire
      Agreement   .
      This
      Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties with respect to
      the
      subject matter hereof and supersedes and replaces all previous negotiations,
      understandings and representations whether written or oral including, but not
      limited to, the Heads of Agreement dated     November
      12,  
      2004
      between the Parties  
      and the
      Prior Agreement  .
        This
      Agreement shall not be modified, altered or amended except by a written document
      signed on behalf of and delivered by both Parties.  

18.8         Waiver      .     
      The
      failure of a party to enforce, at any time or for any period, any of the
      provisions hereof shall not be construed as a waiver of such provisions or
      of
      the rights of such party thereafter to enforce each such provision. 

31 

18.9         No
      Implied Licenses   .
      Except
      as expressly and specifically provided under this Agreement, the parties agree
      that neither party is granted any implied rights to or under any of the other
      party s current or future patents, trade secrets, copyrights, moral rights,
      trade or service marks, trade dress, or any other intellectual property
      rights. 

18.10         Injunctions   .
      The
      parties agree that any breach or threatened breach by one party of the
      confidentiality provisions contained in this Agreement may cause substantial
      harm to the other party that cannot be remedied by monetary damages, and
      therefore each party agrees that either party shall have the right to apply
      for
      equitable remedies, without bond, including injunctions and repossession of
      Confidential Information, to abate actual or threatened breaches of this
      Agreement. 

18.11         Independent
      Contractors   .
      The
      parties agree that the relationship of Cellegy and Licensee established by
      this
      Agreement is that of independent licensee and licensor. Furthermore, the parties
      agree that this Agreement does not, is not intended to, and shall not be
      construed to, establish a partnership or joint venture, and nor shall this
      Agreement create or establish an employment, agency or any other relationship.
      Except as may be specifically provided herein, neither party shall have any
      right, power or authority, nor shall they represent themselves as having any
      authority to assume, create or incur any expense, liability or obligation,
      express or implied, on behalf of the other party, or otherwise act as an agent
      for the other party for any purpose. 

18.12         No
      Third Party Beneficiaries   .
      All
      rights, benefits and remedies under this Agreement are solely intended for
      the
      benefit of Cellegy and Licensee or permitted assignees, and no Third Party
      shall
      have any rights whatsoever to (i) enforce any obligation contained in this
      Agreement (ii) seek a benefit or remedy for any breach of this Agreement, or
      (iii) take any other action relating to this Agreement under any legal theory,
      including but not limited to, actions in contract, tort (including but not
      limited to negligence, gross negligence and strict liability), or as a defense,
      setoff or counterclaim to any action or claim brought or made by the
      parties. 

18.13         Governing
      Law   .
      This
      Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
      the
      State of California, exclusive of its choice-of-law rules. 

18.14         Resolution
      of Disputes   .
      All
      disputes arising out of or related to the terms and conditions of this
      Agreement, or the breach thereof, will be settled as follows. 

(a)        If
      a
      dispute arises under this Agreement, a representative of each party must,
      following whatever investigation each considers appropriate, promptly discuss
      the dispute.  

(b)        If
      the
      dispute is not resolved as a result of the discussions in paragraph (a), either
      party may   give
      written notice to the other party requesting the commencement of negotiations
      in
      good faith. The notice shall: 

32 

(i)        set
      out
      the issues in dispute and any other relevant circumstances; and  

(ii)        designate
      a senior representative with the appropriate authority to negotiate the
      dispute. 

(c)        Within
      ten (10) business days of receipt of the notice referred to in paragraph (b)
      the
      recipient shall notify the other party of a senior representative with similar
      authority to negotiate the dispute and specify a reasonable time and place
      to
      meet within the following fourteen business days. 

(d)        The
      representatives must meet in accordance with the notice referred to in paragraph
      (b) and, using all reasonable endeavors, commence negotiations in good faith
      to
      resolve the dispute. 

(e)        If
      the
      dispute is not resolved within thirty (30) days of notification under paragraph
      (b), then the dispute shall be settled by binding arbitration in Philadelphia,
      Pennsylvania, in accordance with the then existing rules of International
      Chamber of Commerce. In any arbitration pursuant to this Section the award
      shall
      be rendered by a single arbiter if the Parties agree to one or a majority of
      three (3) arbiters, one (1) of whom shall be appointed by each Party and the
      third of whom shall be appointed by mutual agreement of the two Party-appointed
      arbitrators. Either Party may initiate such an arbitration by giving written
      notice to the other Party of such arbitration, specifying, in reasonable detail,
      the dispute to be resolved thereby. The determination of the arbitrators with
      respect to any dispute will be conclusive and binding on the Parties, and the
      arbitrators will have right to award attorneys  fees and costs, including but
      not limited to the costs of the arbitration, to the prevailing Party. Judgment
      upon the award rendered in any arbitration may be entered in any court of
      competent jurisdiction in any country. The Parties agree to the exclusive
      jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in Philadelphia,
      Pennsylvania for purposes of any action arising out of or relating to this
      Agreement that is not subject to mandatory arbitration, and agree that service
      of process in any such action may be made in the manner provided for in this
      Agreement for the delivery of notices.  

(f)        Neither
      Party shall be prevented from applying to a court at any stage for urgent
      injunctive or other relief. 

18.15         Headings   .
      The
      Article and section headings contained in this Agreement are for reference
      purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation
      of
      this Agreement. 

18.16         Counterparts   .
      This
      Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall
      be
      deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same
      document. 

18.17         Late
      Payment   .
      If
      Licensee fails to pay to Cellegy any amount when due, Licensee agrees to pay
      interest on the overdue balance at the rate of the LIBOR rate (as quoted in
      the

33 

[*]
      designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to a
      request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
      Commission  

London
      edition of the Financial Times and in effect from time to time) plus
   [*]   
      or, if
      such rate exceeds the maximum rate permitted by law, the maximum rate permitted
      by law. Payments received from Licensee when any overdue balance exists shall
      be
      applied first against accrued interest. Licensee shall pay all collection
      charges and expenses, and including, but not limited to, attorneys  fees, which
      are incurred by Cellegy in connection with Cellegy s collection of any amounts
      under or relating to this Agreement, or otherwise in connection with the
      enforcement of this Agreement. 

18.18         ProStrakan
      Group plc Guarantee   .
      ProStrakan Group plc, of which Licensee is a wholly-owned subsidiary, hereby
      guarantees the performance of Licensee under this Agreement to the extent,
      and
      pursuant to the terms of, the Guarantee attached hereto as    Exhibit
      D   . 

IN
      WITNESS HEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the Agreement
      Date. 

STRAKAN INTERNATIONAL
              LIMITED  
               
              CELLEGY PHARMACEUTICALS,
              INC.  

By:        

By:              

Its:  

Its:  

PROSTRAKAN
                GROUP plc, only as to 

                Section
                18.18 and the Guarantee 

By  

Its:  

34 

EXHIBIT
      A  

COUNTRIES
      IN THE TERRITORY   

TERRITORIES 

1.
                Europe 

1.
                Europe (continued) 

Andorra 

Slovak
                Republic 

Albania 

Slovenia 

Austria 

Spain 

Belgium 

Sweden 

Bosnia-Herzegovina 

Switzerland 

Bulgaria 

United
                Kingdom 

Croatia 

Republic
                of Yugoslavia 

Cyprus 

Czech
                Republic 

Denmark 

Estonia 

Finland 

France 

Germany 

Gibraltar 

Greece 

Hungary 

Ireland 

Italy 

Latvia 

Liechtenstein

Lithuania 

Luxembourg 

Republic
                of Macedonia 

Malta 

Monaco 

Netherlands 

Norway

Poland

Portugal 

Romania 

A 

EXHIBIT
      B      PATENTS

Cellegy
      Patents      

A 

B 

C 

EXHIBIT
      C      CELLEGY
      MARKS   

Name 

Status 

Country 

Registration
                Date 

Renewal 

Rectogesic 

Registered 

European
                Union 

10/25/02 

9/13/10 

Rectogesic 

Registered 

Switzerland 

3/8/01 

9/8/10 

Rectogesic 

no
                filing 

Andorra 

Rectogesic 

no
                filing 

Albania 

Rectogesic 

no
                filing 

Bosnia-Herzegovina 

Rectogesic 

no
                filing 

Bulgaria 

Rectogesic 

no
                filing 

Croatia 

Rectogesic 

no
                filing 

Gibraltar 

Rectogesic 

no
                filing 

Republic
                of Yugoslavia 

Rectogesic 

no
                filing 

Republic
                of Macedonia 

Rectogesic 

no
                filing 

Monaco 

C 

EXHIBIT
      D     PROSTRAKAN
      GROUP plc GUARANTEE  

ProStrakan
      Group plc (     Group     )
      hereby
      unconditionally guarantees and undertakes to Cellegy that Licensee will duly
      and
      punctually observe and perform all the undertakings, covenants and obligations
      of Licensee under this Agreement (including the payment of any damages becoming
      due to Cellegy as a result of any breach by Licensee of such undertakings,
      covenants and obligations) and under any agreements between the Parties (or
      any
      of them) which are expressly supplemental to this Agreement or which this
      Agreement requires to be executed (the      Obligations     )
      to the
      intent that if Licensee shall fail for whatever reason so to observe and perform
      any Obligations, Group shall be liable to perform the same in all respects
      as if
      Group was the party principally bound thereby in place of Licensee on demand
      from Cellegy.  

D 

EXHIBIT
      E  

FLOW
      DIAGRAM SHOWING   

ORDERING
      AND COMMUNICATION PATHWAYS  

</EX-10.30>

<EX-10.31>
 5
 v038451_ex10-31.htm

Unassociated Document

First
        Amended and Restated Exclusive License Agreement For
        Tostrex       

Between  

STRAKAN
        INTERNATIONAL LIMITED  

And  

Cellegy
        Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

Confidential  

________________________________  

[*] 

designates
                  portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to a
                  request for
                  confidential treatment filed separately with the
                  Commission. 

TABLE
      OF
      CONTENTS   

PAGE   

ARTICLE
                1 DEFINITIONS 

1 

Affiliates 

1 

Agreement 

2 

Approvals 

2 

Cellegy
                Information 

2 

Cellegy
                Marks 

2 

Cellegy
                Patents 

2 

Cellegy
                Supply Agreement 

2 

Cellegy
                Surcharge 

2 

Commercially
                Reasonable and Diligent Efforts 

3 

Competing
                Licensed Products 

3 

Current
                SmPC  

3 

Development  

3 

Dollars 
                or  $  

3 

Effective
                Date  

3 

Euros 
                or    

3 

GMP  

3 

Intellectual
                Property Rights  

3 

Know-How 

3 

Launch
                Date 

5 

Licensed
                Product  

5 

Licensee
                Product 

5 

Licensee
                Supply Agreement 

5 

Loss 

5 

Major
                European Countries 

5 

Manufacturer 

5 

Minimum
                Sales 

5 

M.R.P 

5 

Net
                Sales 

5 

Party 

6 

Patent
                Rights 

6 

Relevant
                Regulatory Authority 

6 

Steering
                Committee 

6 

Sublicensee 

6 

Technical
                Agreement 

6 

Territory 

6 

Third
                Party 

6 

ARTICLE
                2 GRANT OF LICENSE 

7 

2.1 

Grant 

7 

2.2 

Right
                to sub-license 

7 

2.3 

Acceptance
                of Appointment; Sales Outside Territory 

8 

i 

ii 

iii 

SIGNATURES

EXHIBIT
        A
        LICENSED PRODUCT 

        EXHIBIT
        B
        COUNTRIES IN THE TERRITORY 

        EXHIBIT
        C
        MINIMUM SALES REQUIREMENTS 

        EXHIBIT
        D
        PATENT RIGHTS 

        EXHIBIT
        E
        CELLEGY MARKS 

        EXHIBIT
        F
        STRAKAN GROUP GUARANTEE  

        EXHIBIT
        G
        ADVERSE EVENT REPORTING ADDENDUM 

iv 

FIRST
          AMENDED AND RESTATED EXCLUSIVE LICENSE AGREEMENT  

THIS
          FIRST AMENDED AND RESTATED EXCLUSIVE LICENSE AGREEMENT (this "    Agreement    ")
          is
          made and entered into as of January 16, 2006 (the      Agreement
          Date     ),
          by
          and between Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation having
          its
          principal place of business at 1800 Byberry Road, Building 13, Huntingdon
          Valley, PA, 19006-3525 USA ("    Cellegy    "),
          and
          Strakan International Limited    ,    
          a
          company organized and existing under the laws of Bermuda with a branch
          office at
          Buckholm Mill, Galashiels, TD1 2HB, UK ("    Licensee     ").

BACKGROUND   

A.     Cellegy
          owns or possesses certain intellectual property rights with respect to
          the
          Licensed Product (as hereinafter defined) and certain rights pertaining
          to
          Cellegy s Marks (as hereinafter defined) 

B.     The
          Parties previously entered into an Exclusive License and Distribution Agreement
          (     Prior
          Agreement     )
          dated
          as of July 9, 2004 (the      Effective
          Date     ),
          pursuant to which Licensee obtained an exclusive license to certain rights
          to
          the Licensed Product under such intellectual property rights, and to Cellegy s
          Marks within the Territory (as hereinafter defined). 

C.     The
          Parties desire to amend the Prior Agreement in various respects, as reflected
          in
          this Agreement. 

AGREEMENT   

Commencing
          with the Agreement Date, this Agreement shall amend, restate and supersede
          in
          its entirety the Prior Agreement. In consideration of the foregoing and
          of the
          mutual covenants hereinafter set forth and other good and valuable
          consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties
          (as
          hereinafter defined) mutually agree as follows:  

ARTICLE
          1 

           DEFINITIONS  

As
          used
          in this Agreement, the following terms, whether used in the singular or
          the
          plural, shall have the following meanings: 

Affiliates     
shall
          mean, with respect to any party, any person, which, directly or indirectly,
          is
          controlled by, controls or is under common control with such party. For
          purposes
          of this definition, the term control (including with correlative meanings,
          the
          terms controlled by and under common control with) means having the power,
          whether held directly or indirectly and by whatever means (and whether
          or not
          enforceable at law or in equity) to: 

(i)     exercise
          or control the right to vote attached to 50% or more of the issued shares
          in the
          party; 

1 

(ii)     dispose
          of or exercise a right of disposal in respect of 50% or more of the issued
          voting shares in the party; 

(iii)     appoint
          one half or more of the number of directors to the board of the party;
          or 

(iv)     determine
          substantially the conduct of the party s business activities. 

Agreement     
means
          this First Amended and Restated Exclusive License Agreement. 

Approvals     
are
          registration approvals, registrations or authorizations provided by the
          Relevant
          Regulatory Authority in the Territory for the [manufacture,]importation,
          storage, Development, promotion, marketing, distribution or sale of the
          Licensed
          Product, but excluding any pricing approvals that may be required by any
          Relevant Regulatory Authority of a country within the Territory. 

Cellegy
          Information     
means
          the technical and clinical information concerning the Licensed Product
          that is
          developed by Cellegy and that is included in the new drug application filed
          with
          the Relevant Regulatory Authority in Sweden, and Cellegy s European common
          technical document format, and which may include, without limitation, data
          in
          support of indications, bioequivalency data and information, clinical data,
          pharmaco-toxicological data, analytical methods, stability and pharmaceutical
          data concerning the Licensed Product, and any other related supporting
          documentation or other information or materials in Cellegy s possession from
          time to time that Cellegy may in its discretion from time to time develop
          before
          the date that all required Approvals are obtained and that may be necessary
          for,
          or useful in connection with obtaining and maintaining Approvals for the
          Licensed Product in the Territory.  

Cellegy
          Marks     
means
          the trademarks, service marks and/or trade names owned by Cellegy or that
          Cellegy has the right to use in connection with the Licensed Product as
          set
          forth on    Exhibit
          E   
          hereto
          and as further described in Section 13.1, that are used by Licensee, its
          Affiliates or Sublicensees in connection with the importation, storage,
          Development, promotion, marketing, distribution and sale of the Licensed
          Product. 

Cellegy
          Patents     
means
          the patents identified on    Exhibit
          D   
          hereto. 

Cellegy
          Supply Agreement     
means
          the supply agreement between Cellegy and Manufacturer to Licensee governing
          the
          supply of the Licensed Product to Cellegy or Cellegy s nominees or licensees
          outside the Territory and incorporating the terms and conditions of a relevant
          Technical Agreement. 

Cellegy
          Surcharge     
means
          10% of the per unit cost.  

2 

Commercially
          Reasonable and Diligent Efforts     
shall
          mean with respect to Development and commercialization of the Licensed
          Product,
          a Party s reasonable efforts no less than those efforts used by the Party in its
          other development, commercialization or marketing projects with other
          technologies and products having comparable commercial potential.  

Competing
          Licensed Products     
has
          the
          meaning set forth in Section 2.4. 

Current
          SmPC     
has
          the
          meaning set forth in Section 11.4. 

Development     
          (including variations such as  Develop  and the like) shall mean all appropriate
          measures, steps and the like that are necessary to prepare and compile
          dossiers
          appropriate for obtaining Approvals for the Licensed Product in the Territory
          and conducting clinical trials in the Territory (if required). As it relates
          to
          Cellegy,  Development  shall mean that Cellegy shall provide Licensee a copy of
          the dossier concerning the Licensed Product filed by Cellegy with the Relevant
          Regulatory Authority in Sweden, and such other materials relating thereto
          or to
          obtaining other Approvals for the Licensed Product in the Territory as
          Cellegy
          may in its discretion from time to time develop before the date that all
          required Approvals are obtained. 

Dollars     
or
               $     
          means
          United States dollars. 

Effective
          Date     
means
          the date set forth at the beginning of the Prior Agreement. 

Euros     
or
                     
          shall
          mean currency denominated in Euros. 

GMP     
means
          good manufacturing practices in conformity with the regulations and regulatory
          interpretations of the Relevant Regulatory Authorities in each country
          in the
          Territory, including without limitation EU cGMP such regulations covering
          good
          manufacturing practices set forth in the relevant legislation or guidelines
          and
          applicable to the Territory, as such regulations may be amended and interpreted
          by the Relevant Regulatory Authorities from time to time. 

Intellectual
          Property Rights     
means
          all rights and interests, vested or arising out of any industrial or
          intellectual property, whether protected at common law or under statute,
          which
          includes (without limitation) the Patent Rights, Trade Marks and Know-How
          and
          any rights and interests in inventions (both patentable and unpatentable),
          patents, copyrights, moral rights, designs (whether registered or unregistered),
          trade marks (whether registered or unregistered), trade secrets, goodwill,
          samples, materials, data, results and Confidential Information. 

Know-How     
means
          all data, information, methods, procedures, processes and materials, which
          is or
          comes to be possessed, acquired, licensed or owned by Cellegy as of the
          Effective Date and from time to time thereafter of this Agreement, to the
          extent
          that such data, information, methods, procedures, processes and materials
          specifically relate to the manufacture, development, testing or use of
          the
          Licensed Product, including but not limited to, biological, chemical,
          biochemical, toxicological, pharmacological, metabolic, formulation, clinical,
          analytical and stability information and data (other than such Know-How
          which is
          the subject of a patent or of a provisional or filed patent application),
          and
          for which Cellegy has the right to license, disclose or provide to
          Licensee. 

3 

Launch
          Date     
means
          following Approval the date upon which the Licensed Product is first
          commercially offered for sale in a country in the Territory, determined
          on a
          country by country basis.  

Licensed
          Product     
means
          the pharmaceutical product known as Tostrex  (testosterone) 2% topical
          testosterone gel for the treatment of male hypogonadism, in the pharmaceutical
          presentation described in    Exhibit
          A   .

Licensee
          Product     
has
          the
          meaning set forth in Section 2.4. 

Licensee
          Supply Agreement     
means
          the supply agreement between Licensee and Manufacturer governing the supply
          of
          the Licensed Product to Licensee by Manufacturer for the Territory and
          incorporating the terms and conditions of a relevant Technical Agreement.

Loss     
means
          any and all loss, liability, damage, fee, cost, (including without limitation
          actual reasonable court costs and reasonable attorneys  fees regardless of
          outcome) expense, suit, claim, demand, judgment and prosecution. 

Major
          European Countries     
shall
          mean France, Germany, Italy, Spain and United Kingdom. 

Manufacturer     
          means
          Cellegy s nominated Third Party manufacturer of the Licensed Product or any
          other manufacturer nominated by Cellegy or by Licensee.  

Minimum
          Sales         
          means
          agreed targets for unit sales of Licensed Product in the Territory, as
          set forth
          on    Exhibit
          C   
          hereto. 

M.R.P     
          means
          the mutual recognition procedure as defined in Article 28 of European Directive
          2001/83/EC.  

Net
          Sales     
means
          the gross proceeds from sales of the Licensed Product that is due, or otherwise
          received by, Licensee, or its Affiliates or its Sublicensees from Third
          Party
          customers for such Licensed Product, less:  

(i)     reasonable
          credited allowances actually granted to such Third Party customers, 

(ii)     the
          amounts of reasonable trade and cash discounts actually allowed, to the
          extent
          such trade and cash discounts are specifically allowed on account of the
          purchase of such Licensed Product, 

(iii)     sales
          taxes, excise taxes, use taxes and import/export duties and any other government
          charges (other than taxes on income) actually due or incurred or paid by
          Licensee, or its Affiliates or Sublicensees, in connection with the sales
          of the
          Licensed Product to any Third Party, and  

4 

(iv)     reasonable
          allowances, adjustments, reimbursements, discounts, chargebacks and rebates
          actually granted to Third Parties, including, but not limited to, rebates
          given
          to health care organizations or other Third Parties, and any bona fide
          payment
          made in respect of any sales of Licensed Product to any governmental or
          quasi-governmental body or agency, whether during the actual royalty period
          or
          not. 

Party     
          means
          Cellegy or Licensee, and Parties shall mean both Cellegy and
          Licensee. 

Patent
          Rights     
means
          (i) the patents and patent applications listed in    Exhibit
          D   
          hereto
          and any patents and patent applications existing as of the Effective Date;
          (ii)
          any patent or patent application hereafter which is acquired by Cellegy
          or under
          which Cellegy becomes licensed and with the right to sublicense to Licensee,
          during the term of this Agreement, in each case of (i) and (ii) above relating
          to the Licensed Product, its manufacture, use or sale, including methods
          of use
          and screening or processes that use the Licensed Product; (iii) any divisionals,
          continuations and continuations-in-part defined in (i) or (ii); (iv) any
          extension, renewal or reissue or patent identified in any reissue or
          re-examination of any patent or patent application identified in (i) through
          (iv), in each case, to the extent that such items relate to the Licensed
          Product. Such items set forth in sub-items (i) through (iv) will be identified
          and added by the Parties to    Exhibit
          D   
          from
          time to time during the term of this Agreement. 

Relevant
          Regulatory Authority     ,
          in
          relation to a country or region in the Territory, means the governmental
          authority, regulating the use, importation, storage, Development, promotion,
          marketing, distribution or sale of therapeutic substances and the grant
          of
          Approvals in such country or region. 

Steering
          Committee     
means
          the Steering Committee, as described in Article 4 of this
          Agreement. 

Sublicensee     
means
          any person to whom Licensee sublicenses the rights, or any portion thereof,
          granted by Cellegy to Licensee pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof. 

Technical
          Agreement         
          means
          the agreements between Cellegy and Manufacturer for Licensed Product supplied
          outside the Territory, and between Licensee and Manufacturer for Licensed
          Product supplied within the Territory, defining the roles and responsibilities
          for the parties to the Technical Agreements in relation to, inter alia,
          (i)
          manufacture and supply of the Licensed Product pursuant to GMP; and (ii)
          regarding regulatory, safety and pharmacovigilence issues, the terms and
          conditions of which are incorporated into any supply agreement for the
          Licensed
          Product. 

Territory     
means
          the countries listed on    Exhibit
          B   
          hereto.

Third
          Party     
means
          any party other than Cellegy or Licensee, or Licensee s Affiliates or
          Sublicensees. 

5 

ARTICLE
          2   

          GRANT
          OF
          LICENSE 

2.1      Grant   .
          Cellegy
          hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive, royalty-bearing, license, with
          a right
          to sublicense as set forth herein, under all of Cellegy s Intellectual Property
          Rights to manufacture or have manufactured anywhere in the world, import,
          store,
          Develop, have Developed (through agreements with contract research organizations
          or similar Third Parties, performing work on behalf of and for the benefit
          of
          Licensee), promote, market, distribute, offer for sale, and sell the Licensed
          Product within the Territory, and to use Cellegy s Intellectual Property Rights
          in connection with the importation, storage, Development, promotion, marketing,
          distribution and sale of Licensed Product and obtaining any Approvals hereunder,
          in each of the above cases only in relation to promotion, marketing,
          distribution, offer for sale and sale of the Licensed Product within the
          Territory. Licensee s rights to the Licensed Product and the Intellectual
          Property Rights are limited to those expressly granted, and all others
          are
          reserved to Cellegy. 

2.2      Right
          to sub-license   .
          Subject
          to Section 2.5 below, Licensee may sub-license any of its rights or obligations
          under this Agreement, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part: 

(a)     to
          Third
          Parties approved by Cellegy in writing, which approval will not be unreasonably
          withheld or delayed; and 

(b)     to
          a
          Cellegy approved Third Party Manufacturer in the case of Licensee sub-licensing
          the rights to manufacture the Licensed Product and subject to appropriate
          confidential disclosure by Cellegy of the Cellegy Information and Know-How
          which
          Cellegy shall disclose to allow the manufacture of the Licensed Product
          by such
          Manufacturer; and  

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

(c)     to
          any of
          its Affiliates that are engaged primarily in the business of manufacture,
          importation, storage, Development, promotion, marketing, distribution and
          sale
          of pharmaceutical products, as Licensee sees fit. 

Any
          such
          sublicense shall not relieve Licensee of any of its obligations hereunder,
          and
          Licensee shall remain responsible and liable for compliance by any such
          Third
          Party, Affiliate or Sublicensee with this Agreement, all relevant laws,
          regulations and requirements relating to the importation, distribution,
          marketing, promotion and sale of the Licensed Product in the Territory,
          and any
          acts or omissions by any such Third Party, Affiliate or Sublicensee that
          would
          constitute a breach of this Agreement if such sublicense had not been entered
          into and the actions or omissions were those of Licensee rather than the
          Third
          Party, Affiliate or Sublicensee. Any sublicense agreement shall contain
          terms
          and conditions that are not inconsistent with those of this
          Agreement. 

6 

2.3      Acceptance
          of Appointment; Sales Outside Territory   . 

(a)     Licensee
          hereby accepts appointment as Cellegy's exclusive licensee of Licensed
          Product
          in the Territory, as provided in Section 2.1 above. 

(b)     Licensee
          shall not, and Licensee shall use all Commercially Reasonable and Diligent
          Efforts to ensure that its officers, directors, employees, Affiliates,
          agents or
          representatives (collectively, "    Agents    ")
          shall
          not, without the prior written consent of Cellegy, directly or indirectly
          promote, sell, distribute or otherwise make available (for remuneration
          or
          gratuitously) Licensed Product outside the Territory or sell, distribute
          or
          otherwise make available (for remuneration or gratuitously) Licensed Product
          to
          persons outside the Territory for the purpose of resale or distribution
          (whether
          for remuneration or gratuitously) outside the Territory. Without limiting
          the
          foregoing, Licensee agrees to use all Commercially Reasonable and Diligent
          Efforts to ensure compliance with the preceding sentence, including without
          limitation placing appropriate notices on the labels of Licensed Products;
          provided, however, that Licensee shall not be obligated to include any
          notices
          in a particular country in the Territory that would conflict with any relevant
          requirements of the Relevant Regulatory Authority for such country, and
          Licensee s failure or refusal to include any such notices in such circumstances
          shall not constitute a breach of any provision of this Agreement.  

2.4      Competing
          Products   .
          During
          the term of this Agreement, or, if earlier, the maximum period of time
          permitted
          by applicable European Union regulations, Licensee shall not, and shall
          use all
          Commercially Reasonable and Diligent Efforts to ensure that its officers,
          directors, employees, Affiliates, Sublicensees, agents or representatives
          (collectively, "    Agents    ")
          shall
          not, directly or indirectly, promote, sell or distribute products within
          the
          Territory that are directly competitive in the treatment of male hypogonadism
          or
          such other indications for the Licensed Product as may be added to this
          Agreement (the      Competing
          Licensed Products     ),
          excluding Licensee s [*] (the      Licensee
          Product     ).
          For
          the avoidance of doubt, this shall not preclude Licensee from conducting
          research and development in relation to projects or products  

           [*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

that
          may
          be associated with the treatment of male hypogonadism or such other indication
          for the Licensed Product added to this Agreement. If applicable law or
          applicable European Union regulations provide that the foregoing covenant
          is
          unenforceable or require that the duration of the foregoing covenant be
          shorter
          than the term of this Agreement, then if at any time during the term of
          this
          Agreement when such covenant is not effective Licensee or its Agents directly
          or
          indirectly promote, sell or distribute Competing Licensed Products, Cellegy
          may
          terminate this Agreement with respect to any country where such Competing
          Licensed Products are being promoted, sold or distributed by delivery of
          written
          notice to Licensee. 

7 

2.5      Right
          of First Negotiation Regarding Licensee Product in North America   .
          Before
          Licensee enters into any agreement with any Third Party which includes
          the right
          to develop, promote, distribute or sell the Licensee Product for use in
          males in
          territories that include the United States of America or Canada (     North
          America     ),
          or
          any agreement with any Third Party which includes worldwide rights to develop,
          promote, distribute or sell the Licensee Product, Licensee shall first
          offer to
          Cellegy in writing (the      Negotiation
          Notice     )
          a
          one-time right of exclusive first negotiation to negotiate with Licensee
          concerning exclusive development, marketing and/or distribution rights
          in North
          America (or worldwide, as the case may be) for such Licensee Product, for
          a
          negotiation period not to exceed [*] (the      Negotiation
          Period     ).
          Cellegy shall exercise the Right of First Negotiation granted herein by
          providing written notice   of
          its
          election (the      Exercise
          Notice     )
          to
          Licensee within [*] after the date of delivery of the Negotiation Notice
          to
          Cellegy. The Negotiation Period shall commence upon delivery to Licensee
          of the
          Exercise Notice. During the Negotiation Period, Licensee shall not enter
          into
          any agreement with any person other than Cellegy with respect to the
          development, promotion, distribution or sale of the Licensee Product within
          any
          country in North America (or worldwide, as the case may be). During the
          Negotiation Period, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith; provided,
          however, that nothing in this Article shall be deemed to create a legal
          obligation on the part of Licensee to enter into any such agreement. This
          Right
          of First Negotiation shall terminate upon the first to occur of (i) Cellegy s
          failure to timely deliver its Exercise Notice following receipt of the
          Negotiation Notice; (ii) the expiration of the Negotiation Period; (iii)
          the
          mutual termination of negotiations by the Parties conducted under this
          Article;
          or (iv) the effective date of termination of this Agreement by either Party
          as
          provided elsewhere in this Agreement.  

ARTICLE
          3  

           REPRESENTATIONS
          AND WARRANTIES  

3.1      Representations
          and Warranties of Cellegy    .      C  ellegy
          hereby represents and warrants to Licensee that: 

(a)     Cellegy
          is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing
          under
          the laws of the State of Delaware, with the corporate power and authority
          to
          enter into this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder. The
          execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the
          transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all requisite
          corporate action on the part of Cellegy. This Agreement has been duly executed
          and delivered by Cellegy and constitutes the valid, binding and enforceable
          obligation of Cellegy, subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization,
          insolvency, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors  rights generally from
          time to time in effect and to general principles of equity. 

(b)     Cellegy
          is not subject to, or bound by, any provision of: (i) its articles of
          incorporation or by-laws, (ii) any mortgage, deed of trust, lease, note,
          shareholders  agreement, bond, indenture, license, permit, trust, custodianship,
          or other instrument, agreement or restriction, or (iii) any judgment, order,
          writ, injunction or decree of any court, governmental body, administrative
          agency or arbitrator, that would prevent, or be violated by, or under which
          there would be a default as a result of, nor is the consent of any person
          required for, the execution, delivery and performance by Cellegy of this
          Agreement and the obligations contained herein, including without limitation,
          the grant to Licensee of the license described in Section 2.1
          hereof. 

8 

(c)     Cellegy
          is the exclusive owner of all right, title and interest in the Patent Rights
          in
          the applicable countries in the Territory, and the patent applications
          included
          in the Patent Rights have been duly filed and contain no material errors.
          Cellegy shall maintain all Patent Rights for the full duration of this
          Agreement. Attached hereto as    Exhibit
          D   
          is a
          complete and accurate list of all patents and patent applications included
          in
          the Patent Rights. 

(d)     Cellegy
          is the exclusive owner of all right, title and interest in the Cellegy
          Marks in
          the Territory. Cellegy shall maintain at its sole expense where applicable
          all
          Cellegy Marks for the full duration of this Agreement. Attached hereto
          as
   Exhibit
          E   
          is a
          complete and accurate list of all trade marks and trade mark applications
          included in the Cellegy Marks. 

(e)     To
          the
          best of Cellegy s knowledge, neither the development, use or sale of the
          Licensed Product or the practice of any of the inventions included in the
          Patent
          Rights or the use of the Cellegy Marks or the use of the Know-How by Licensee
          as
          contemplated by this Agreement infringes upon any Third Party s know-how,
          patent, trade mark or other intellectual property rights in the
          Territory. 

(f)     To
          the
          best of Cellegy s knowledge, there is no Third Party using or infringing any or
          all of the Patent Rights or the Cellegy Marks in derogation of the rights
          granted to Licensee in this Agreement. 

(g)     To
          the
          best of Cellegy s knowledge, there is no interference or opposition actions or
          litigations pending or any communication, which threatens interference
          or
          opposition actions or litigation before any patent and trade mark office,
          court
          or any other governmental entity in any jurisdiction in regard to the Patent
          Rights or the Cellegy Marks. 

(h)     Cellegy
          represents and warrants that, to the best of its knowledge, it has furnished
          or
          will furnish (in accordance with the terms of this Agreement) to Licensee
          all of
          the Know-How which Cellegy owns or possesses. 

(i)     CELLEGY
          MAKES NO REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OTHER THAN THOSE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED
          HEREUNDER, AND CELLEGY HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS
          OR
          IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
          OR THE
          FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OF THE LICENSED PRODUCT OR THE KNOW-HOW.
          EXCEPT AS MAY BE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED ELSEWHERE HEREIN, CELLEGY MAKES NO
          REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY THAT THE LICENSED PRODUCT IS OR WILL BE SHOWN
          TO BE
          SAFE OR EFFECTIVE FOR ANY INDICATION. THE FOREGOING SHALL NOT REDUCE THE
          SCOPE
          OF ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF CELLEGY EXPRESSLY MADE TO LICENSEE
          HEREIN. 

(j)     Cellegy
          will use all Commercially Reasonable and Diligent Efforts to ensure that
          Cellegy
          will not alter the Cellegy Information supplied to Licensee or the materials
          or
          processes described in that information in relation to any of the Licensed
          Product without the prior written notification to Licensee. 

9 

3.2      Representations
          and Warranties of Licensee   .
          Licensee hereby represents and warrants to Cellegy as follows: 

(a)     Licensee
          is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing
          under
          the laws of Bermuda, having a branch office in the UK with the corporate
          power
          and authority to enter into this Agreement and to perform its obligations
          hereunder. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation
          of
          the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all requisite
          corporate action on the part of Licensee. This Agreement has been duly
          executed
          and delivered by Licensee and constitutes the valid, binding and enforceable
          obligation of Licensee, subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization,
          insolvency, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors  rights generally from
          time to time in effect and to general principles of equity. 

(b)     Licensee s
          Affiliates shall not conduct themselves in such a way that Licensee will
          be in
          breach of any term or condition of this Agreement. 

(c)     Licensee
          currently is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable
          laws and
          has received, or will receive where relevant, all applicable pharmaceutical
          product certifications and registrations from appropriate governmental
          entities
          that are necessary to perform its obligations under this Agreement. 

ARTICLE
          4 

          MANAGEMENT
          OF THE COLLABORATION 

4.1      Steering
          Committee   . 

(a)     Upon
          execution of the Prior Agreement, Cellegy and Licensee established a Steering
          Committee (the      Steering
          Committee     )
          which
          shall have the responsibilities described in this Article 4. The Steering
          Committee shall be initially comprised of a total of six (6) members, of
          which
          three (3) members shall be appointed by Licensee and three (3) members

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

shall
          be
          appointed by Cellegy. The total number of Steering Committee members may
          be
          changed by the Steering Committee from time to time as appropriate, but
          in all
          cases it will be comprised of an equal number of members designated by
          each of
          Cellegy and Licensee, and in no event shall the Steering Committee be comprised
          of an aggregate of less than six (6) members. Each of Cellegy and Licensee
          may
          substitute its representatives from time to time and the substitution shall
          be
          effective upon notice to the other Party. The Steering Committee shall
          meet once
          every quarter during the first year of the term of this Agreement and thereafter
          at such other times as the Steering Committee may agree (but at least one
          time
          each year), on such dates and at such places as to be agreed upon between
          the
          Parties. Each representative on the Steering Committee will have one vote
          in
          decisions submitted to the Steering Committee. The meetings of the Steering
          Committee may be held in person or in any other reasonable manner, including,
          without limitation, by telephone, video conference or e-mail.  

10 

(b)
          [*]
          shall designate a Chairperson who will serve as such. The Chairperson shall
          send
          notices (not less than 15 business days in advance of such meetings) and
          agendas
          for all regular Steering Committee meetings to all Steering Committee members.
          The location of regularly scheduled Steering Committee meetings shall alternate
          among the offices of the Parties, unless otherwise agreed. Meetings may
          be held
          telephonically or by video conference, but each member shall attend at
          least one
          meeting in person each year. The Party hosting any Steering Committee meeting
          shall appoint one person (who need not be a member of the Steering Committee)
          to
          attend the meeting and record the minutes of the meeting. Such minutes
          shall be
          circulated to the Parties promptly following the meeting for review, comment
          and
          approval.  

4.2      Responsibilities
          of the Steering Committee   .
          The
          Steering Committee will be primarily responsible for activities relating
          to
          implementation of the activities contemplated by this Agreement. The Steering
          Committee shall, subject to the provisions set forth in this Agreement
          (including the dispute resolution procedures hereof), be the primary vehicle
          for
          interaction between the Parties with respect to the Development and
          commercialization of the Licensed Product in the Territory. In particular,
          the
          Steering Committee shall perform the following functions:  

(a)     exchange
          of information and facilitation of cooperation and coordination between
          the
          Parties as they exercise their respective rights and meet their respective
          obligations under this Agreement; 

(b)     perform
          such other functions as appropriate to further the purposes of this Agreement,
          as determined by the mutual agreement of the Parties;  

(c)     with
          the
          exception of the Approval application that Cellegy has already submitted
          in
          Sweden, prior to submitting any Approval application, the Steering Committee
          shall discuss the scope and content of such Approval application. The Steering
          Committee may  

           [*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

review
          and comment on all Approval applications, and such comments will be considered
          by the Parties as long as such comments are provided in a timely manner.
          In the
          event of a dispute within the Steering Committee or between the Parties
          directly
          or indirectly relating to the choice of countries within the Territory
          where
          Approval applications shall be filed and Approvals shall be obtained then
          clause
          4.3 shall not apply. Licensee shall have final decision-making authority
          with
          respect to such Approval application issues; however, any such decisions
          shall
          be based on Licensee s good faith belief that such decision is consistent with
          commercialization requirements of the Territory; and 

(d)     In
          the
          event that the Current SmPC requires substantial and significant changes
          as
          described in Section 11.4(b), then the Steering Committee shall review
          the
          timetable and the Approval Plan, and if it so determines to revise and
          modify
          such timetable and Approval Plan, then the time periods for obtaining Approvals
          (as set out in Section 5.1(b)) and consequently commercializing the Licensed
          Product (as set out in Sections 10.3(i) and (ii)) shall be extended by
          the
          amount of time determined by the Steering Committee. 

11 

(e)     at
          the
          end of [*] review and attempt to agree on the Minimum Sales for
          [*]. 

4.3      Voting;
          Deadlocks   .
          Each
          member of the Steering Committee shall have one vote, and all the decisions
          of
          the Steering Committee shall be made by a simple majority of the members
          of such
          committee;    provided   ,
             however   ,
          that in
          the event the members of the Steering Committee are deadlocked and cannot
          reach
          a decision within three (3) days after notice of a deadlock with regard
          to any
          decision required to be made by such committee (each, a      Dispute     ),
          then
          the Dispute shall be referred to the Chief Executive Officer of each Party..
          If
          such Dispute is not resolved by the Chief Executive Officers within five
          (5)
          working days of such referral, then (i) Cellegy s Chief Executive Officer (or
          such other officer as Cellegy determines) will have the authority to cast
          the
          tie-breaking vote with regard to such Dispute if, and only if, the Dispute
          relates to clinical studies or trials where, in Cellegy s good faith opinion,
          the conduct or results of the studies or activities could have a detrimental
          effect on the commercial viability of the Licensed Product outside of the
          Territory, and (ii) for other kinds of Disputes, if the Chief Executive
          Officers
          cannot agree within such time period, then the Dispute shall be resolved
          by
          means of the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 18.14 of
          this
          Agreement. 

4.4      Approval
          Plan; Marketing Plan   .     The
          overall timetable to obtain Approvals for the Licensed Product in the Territory
          shall be set forth in a written plan (the  Approval Plan ). In addition,
          Licensee shall prepare a marketing plan, including details of promotional
          effort, size of sales force, associated budget in connection with the promotion,
          marketing and distribution of the Licensed Product in the Major European
          Countries (the  Marketing Plan ). The initial Marketing Plan for Sweden shall be
          submitted no later than six (6) weeks after the Effective Date of this
          Agreement. The initial Marketing Plans for the Major European Countries
          shall be

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

submitted
          no later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, and the initial
          Marketing Plans for the other countries in the Territory shall be submitted
          no
          later than one (1) year after the Effective Date. Such initial Marketing
          Plans
          shall be subject to review and approval by Cellegy, such approval not to
          be
          unreasonably withheld or delayed. The Marketing Plans shall be consistent
          in all
          material respects with the provisions of this Agreement. Subsequent revisions
          and updates to the Marketing Plan shall be delivered annually and no later
          than
          the end of the first week in January (or, if Licensee makes interim revisions
          or
          updates, then as soon as reasonably practicable after Licensee prepares
          such
          revisions or updates). 

12 

ARTICLE
          5  

           REGULATORY
          MATTERS; APPROVALS  

5.1      Regulatory
          Matters; Approvals   . 

(a)     Licensee
          shall use Commercially Reasonable and Diligent Efforts, subject to this
          Agreement, and with the exception of the Approval application that Cellegy
          has
          already submitted in Sweden, to obtain at its sole expense obtain all Approvals
          that are necessary for the sale of the Licensed Product within the Territory
          including without limitation: any additional clinical trials, studies or
          data in
          addition to the Cellegy Information that may be required in order to obtain
          or
          maintain Approvals for Licensed Product in each country in the Territory,
          and
          comply with any and all applicable statutory, administrative or regulatory
          requirements of the Territory or any governmental or political subdivisions
          thereof (collectively, "    Laws    ")
          in
          relation   to
          the
          manufacture, importation, storage, Development promotion, marketing,
          distribution or sale of the Licensed Product in the Territory under this
          Agreement, including, without limitation, Licensed Product documentation
          such as
          Licensed Product tracking, samples, Licensed Product complaints, adverse
          event
          reporting requirements, post-marketing surveillance activities, and
          documentation of recalls, which documentation shall be maintained by the
          Licensee for the period required by the Relevant Regulatory Authorities
          in the
          Territory notwithstanding termination or expiration of this Agreement,
          any
          Licensed Product registrations with any government agency or health authority,
          or any registration, approvals, or filing of this Agreement. Licensee shall
          inform Cellegy on at least a semi-annual basis (and more frequently if
          Cellegy
          so reasonably requests) about the progress of such registration work, and
          will
          promptly provide Cellegy with a copy of all presentations and documents
          submitted by Licensee to any Relevant Regulatory Authority with respect
          to the
          Licensed Product. Cellegy shall do all that is necessary to assign the
          Approval
          in Sweden to Licensee, including notifying the Swedish Relevant Regulatory
          Authority of such a change. Cellegy shall, upon Licensee s written request,
          provide reasonable assistance to Licensee, at Licensee s sole cost, regarding
          obtaining such Approvals in the Territory, including allowing Licensee
          reasonable access to relevant experts in relation to the Cellegy Information
          for
          the purpose of obtaining Approvals. 

(b)     Licensee
          agrees that it will make all filings that are required to seek and obtain
          Approvals for the Licensed Product in each Major European Country by initiating
          the M.R.P. no later than [*] after the date of Approval of the variation
          dealing
          with impurities in the  

           [*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

Licensed
          Product which variation was filed 18 May 2005 with the Relevant Regulatory
          Authority in Sweden, provided that the dossier used in Sweden is acceptable
          for
          use in an M.R.P. application.  
          If the
          Relevant Regulatory Authority in a country other than Sweden determines
          that
          such dossier is not complete or acceptable for the initiation of an M.R.P.
          application in such country, then the Steering Committee shall promptly
          meet and
          attempt to agree on an appropriate course of action, and recommend an
          appropriate modification to the above deadline as applied to such country.
          Licensee agrees that it will make all filings that are required to seek
          and
          obtain Approvals for the Licensed Product in other countries in the Territory
          no
          later than [*] after the completion of the M.R.P. and to use Commercially
          Reasonable and Diligent Efforts to take such actions as may be required
          to
          promptly obtain Approvals in all of the foregoing countries. If Licensee
          desires
          to not seek Approvals in one or more countries in the Territory because
          Licensee
          concludes in good faith that for regulatory or marketing reasons it would
          not be
          in the parties  best interests to pursue Approvals in such countries, it shall
          notify the Steering Committee and the Steering Committee shall decide whether
          Approvals will be sought in such country or countries. If alteration by
          Cellegy
          of the Cellegy Information after the date of this Agreement requires additional
          time to submit or revise regulatory filings relating to Approvals, then
          the time
          periods set forth above for making filings and obtaining Approvals shall
          be
          extended by the additional period of time required to submit or revise
          such
          filings.  

13 

(c)     With
          the
          exception of the Approval application that Cellegy has already submitted
          in
          Sweden and such other materials as Cellegy in its discretion may provide
          to
          Licensee pursuant to this Agreement, Licensee shall pay all costs in connection
          with the filing, prosecution, meetings, communications, and review by Relevant
          Regulatory Authorities of Approval applications and Approvals relating
          to the
          Licensed Product in the Territory and complying with applicable laws and
          regulations. 

5.2      Reversion
          of Product Rights in Certain Circumstances   .
          If
          further clinical development is required for Approval in a given country
          (or
          countries) within the Territory and Licensee elects not to conduct any
          required
          clinical studies within twenty-four (24) months after the need for further
          clinical studies is identified, then the rights in the Licensed Product
          in any
          such country shall revert to Cellegy at no further cost to
          Licensee. 

5.3      Cooperation
          Regarding Material Events   .
          Each
          Party will immediately notify the other Party of any material events relating
          to
          the Development of the Licensed Product in the Territory, including, without
          limitation, any material comments or concerns raised by any Relevant Regulatory
          Authority. 

5.4      Copies
          of Documents   .
          Each
          Party agrees to provide to the other Party a copy of (i) any documents
          or
          reports relating to the Licensed Product that are filed with any Relevant
          Regulatory Authority in the Territory under this Agreement, including any
          Approval applications; and (ii) all data, database information and safety
          reports from clinical trials conducted by or on behalf of Licensee. In
          particular, Licensee acknowledges that Cellegy has provided to Licensee
          a copy
          of the dossier concerning the Licensed Product filed in Sweden. All such
          documents and reports shall be centralized and held at Licensee or by a
          Third
          Party selected by Licensee and agreed to by Cellegy, provided however,
          that
          Cellegy shall be entitled to obtain and keep copies of any such documents
          and
          records but only for the uses specifically set forth in this
          Agreement. 

5.5      Approval
          Application in Sweden   .     Cellegy
          agrees to continue the ongoing Approval process in Sweden; provided, however,
          that the foregoing shall not obligate Cellegy to conduct any additional
          studies
          or trials. Cellegy shall provide Licensee with a copy of such other reports,
          analysis and clinical data relating to the Licensed Product in a timely
          manner
          as Cellegy may from time to time develop before the date that all required
          Approvals are obtained.  

14 

5.6      Meetings
          With Regulatory Authorities   .     Licensee
          shall be responsible for conducting all meetings and discussions and routine
          telephone communications with any Relevant Regulatory Authority, related
          to
          clinical studies, Approval applications and Approvals for the Licensed
          Product
          in the Territory; provided that Licensee shall use Commercially Reasonable
          and
          Diligent Efforts to conduct such meetings and discussions to facilitate
          the
          Approval of the Licensed Product in the Territory. Licensee will inform
          Cellegy
          and the Steering Committee early in advance of all meetings with such Relevant
          Regulatory Authorities and will keep Cellegy and the Steering Committee
          apprised
          of all material communications with such Relevant Regulatory Authorities.
          Cellegy or its designee shall be entitled to attend all meetings with Relevant
          Regulatory Authorities. If appropriate Cellegy, or Cellegy s designee, will
          provide reasonable assistance and technical support for the preparation
          of and
          attendance at any relevant meeting with a Relevant Regulatory Authority.

5.7      Inspection   .
          Licensee and Cellegy shall use all Commercially Reasonable and Diligent
          efforts
          to procure that Manufacturer, shall cooperate in good faith with respect
          to the
          conduct of any inspections by any Relevant Regulatory Authority of Licensee s or
          Manufacturer's site and facilities related to the manufacture of the Licensed
          Product for the Territory, and each Party shall be given the opportunity
          to
          attend such site inspection and the summary, or wrap up, meeting related
          to the
          Licensed Product with such Relevant Regulatory Authority at the conclusion
          of
          such site inspection. To the extent either Party receives written or material
          oral communication from any Relevant Regulatory Authority relating to the
          Licensed Product in the Territory, the party receiving such communication
          shall
          notify the other parties and provide a copy of any written communication
          as soon
          as reasonably practicable.  

5.8      Clinical
          Trials   .
          Licensee shall at its own cost be responsible for the conduct of all studies
          and
          clinical trials that may be necessary or appropriate to obtain all required
          Approvals (excluding Sweden) and any post-Approval Clinical Trials and
          for the
          grant of all necessary approvals and maintaining in effect all appropriate
          policies of insurance for clinical trials for the Licensed Product in the
          Territory. All clinical trials for the Licensed Product in the Territory
          that
          are initiated after the date of this Agreement shall be performed in compliance
          with and in conformity to ICH and E.U. good clinical practice guidelines.
          Licensee shall provide Cellegy with the study plans and/or protocols relating
          to
          any such clinical trial before the trial is started, and Cellegy shall
          have the
          right to review and comment on such trial plans or protocols. It will be
          the
          responsibility of the Party conducting the trial to register such trial,
          unless
          by law Cellegy as the originator of the Licensed Product is required to
          register
          it in which circumstance if Licensee is conducting the trial it shall supply
          Cellegy with the appropriate information to enable the trial to be registered.
          At the completion of each clinical trial initiated after the Effective
          Date,
          Licensee shall prepare a written report, in compliance with the relevant
          ICH
          guidelines summarizing the results of such clinical trial, and containing
          an
          analysis of the clinical significance of such results, which reports shall
          be
          submitted to Cellegy as soon as is reasonably practicable after completion
          of
          the relevant clinical trial. Licensee may enter into one or more manufacturing
          and supply agreement(s) (or similar arrangements) with Third Party contract
          manufacturer(s) for such clinical supplies, providing that use of the Third
          Party contract manufacturer(s) has been approved by Cellegy . 

5.9      Cellegy
          Obligations   .
          Promptly following entering into this Agreement Cellegy shall, to the extent
          it
          has not already done so pursuant to the Prior Agreement: 

(a)     provide
          Licensee with a complete copy of the Cellegy Information; 

15 

(b)     provide
          Licensee with any information in its possession that is reasonably likely
          to
          jeopardize or otherwise have a material adverse impact on the application,
          or
          any grant, maintenance, variation or renewal of the Approvals; 

(c)     except
          as
          provided in Section 5.8 above, at its cost promptly provide to Licensee
          a
          sufficient quantity of the Licensed Product reasonably necessary for Licensee
          to
          prepare and submit the application, and the grant, maintenance, variation
          or
          renewal of Approvals;  

          (d)     use
          Commercially Reasonable and Diligent Efforts to assist Licensee and Manufacturer
          to procure the assistance of any Third Party supplier of raw materials
          , in
          meeting the demands of the Relevant Regulatory Authority relating to any
          application and any grant, maintenance, variation or renewal of Approvals;

(e)     use
          commercially reasonable efforts to assist Licensee to enter into Licensee
          Supply
          Agreement and Technical Agreement with the Manufacturer; and 

(f)     notify
          Licensee and promptly provide all relevant assistance and supporting
          documentation to Licensee and Manufacturer, where relevant, should Cellegy
          make
          any alteration to the Licensed Product, or the manufacture, or packing
          of the
          Licensed Product that requires notification to a Relevant Regulatory
          Authority. 

5.10      Approvals   . 

(a)     All
          Approvals by any Relevant Regulatory Authority which are necessary to sell
          the
          Licensed Product within the Territory shall be issued to, and held in the
          name
          of Licensee for the benefit of Cellegy; provided, however, that all such
          Approvals shall constitute the sole property of Cellegy.  

(b)     Licensee
          shall promptly provide to Cellegy, upon Cellegy's request, such evidence
          that
          Cellegy shall reasonably require, confirming that all Approvals necessary
          to
          import, store, Develop, promote, market, distribute and sell the Licensed
          Product in the Territory have been obtained.  

(c)     Cellegy
          hereby acknowledges that, except as may otherwise be required by law, Licensee
          has no obligation to verify the Cellegy Information.  

ARTICLE
          6 

           POST-
          APPROVAL RESPONSIBILITIES  

6.1      Responsibility   .
          Each
          Party acknowledges that Licensee or the Affiliate or Sublicensee named
          by
          Licensee as the holder of the Approvals bears the ultimate responsibility
             vis- -vis   
          the
          Relevant Regulatory Authorities for complying with the regulatory requirements
          applicable to the manufacture, importation, storage, Development, promotion,
          marketing, distribution and sale of the Licensed Product in the Territory.

16 

6.2      Collaboration   .
          The
          Parties shall collaborate with each other and each Party agrees to provide
          the
          other Party with any reasonable assistance it may require to ensure compliance
          with the Approvals.  

6.3     I   nsurance   .
          To the
          extent commercially available, both Parties shall maintain in full force
          and
          effect for the term of this Agreement and for five (5) years thereafter
          product
          liability insurance and property damage insurance on its operations naming
          the
          other Party as an additional insured, with terms reasonably satisfactory
          to the
          other Party. The amount and extent of coverage of the insurance required
          hereunder, if any, shall be not less than a single limit liability of not
          less
          than U.S. $5 million in one claim and in the aggregate, and each Party
          shall
          furnish to the other Party copies of policies of insurance or certificates
          evidencing the existence and amounts of such insurance within thirty (30)
          days
          of the other Party s request for such copies. Each Party shall provide the other
          Party with written notice of any cancellation of any insurance hereunder
          at
          least thirty (30) days prior to such cancellation.  

ARTICLE
          7 

           INFORMATION;
          DATA; PHARMACOVIGILENCE  

7.1      Clinical
          Data   .
          All
          clinical data and reports related to clinical trials for the Licensed Product
          in
          the Territory shall be owned by the Party funding such clinical trial(s).
          Other
          than to a Sublicensee in connection with the transactions contemplated
          by this
          Agreement, Licensee shall not sell, disclose to or share with any Third
          Party,
          or grant any Third Party right to use, any clinical data arising owned
          by
          Licensee as a result of the preceding sentence. Each Party shall have access
          to,
          and copies of, all such data and reports related to clinical trials for
          the
          Licensed Product in the Territory, and each Party may use such data without
          any
          additional payments to the other Party. Each Party shall treat such data
          and
          reports as Confidential Information of the other Party, and neither Party
          shall
          disclose or use such data or reports for any purpose other than performing
          its
          obligations under this Agreement or as otherwise expressly authorized in
          writing
          by the Steering Committee except to the extent that data or reports are
          required
          by the voluntary or compulsory prior registration of a clinical trial,
          and
          except for such disclosures as a Party reasonably believes is required
          by
          securities or regulatory laws or  

           [*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

regulations.
          If a Party itself obtains data from a clinical trial hereunder, it shall
          promptly transfer all of the clean, final data for such trial to Licensee
          or to
          Cellegy, as the case may be. The Steering Committee shall coordinate the
          transfers of any such data.  

7.2      Safety
          Data Base   .
          The
          Parties will, as soon as practical, organize a serious adverse event data
          base
          (the      SAE
          Data Base     ).
          Cellegy and Licensee shall jointly own the SAE Data Base and all data contained
          therein, and the data from the SAE Data Base shall be made available to
          both
          Parties. Licensee shall be responsible for, and bear the costs of, data
          for the
          SAE Data Base related to the Territory. Cellegy shall be responsible for,
          and
          bear the costs of, data for the SAE Data Base related to territories outside
          the
          Territory. As soon as practicable, the Parties shall attach a policy governing
          the formation and administration of the SAE Data Base to this Agreement
          as part
          of    Exhibit
          G.  

17 

7.3      Adverse
          Events   .
          The
          Parties recognize that as the holder of the Approvals, Licensee will be
          required
          to submit information and file reports to various governmental agencies
          on
          compounds under clinical investigation, compounds proposed for marketing,
          or
          marketed drugs. The process and responsibilities for such reports will
          be
          governed by the Adverse Event Reporting Addendum separately agreed to by
          the
          Parties.  

7.4      Product
          Complaints   .
          Each
          Party will maintain a record of all non-medical and medical Licensed
          Product-related complaints and will notify the other Party of any complaint
          in a
          sufficient time to allow the other Party to comply with any regulatory
          requirements it may have with respect to such complaint.The details and
          responsibilities governing the management of such Licensed Product-related
          complaints shall be detailed in    Exhibit
          G   . 

ARTICLE
          8 

           MILESTONE
          PAYMENTS; ROYALTIES AND RELATED PAYMENTS  

8.1      Milestone
          Payments   .
          Licensee shall pay Cellegy a milestone payment in the particular amounts
          specified below: 

(a)     Five
          Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000), within five (5) business days after
          the
          date the Prior Agreement was executed and delivered by both parties hereto,
          receipt of which amount is hereby acknowledged by Cellegy.  

(b)     With
          respect to [*], the amounts set forth below, payable on the earlier to
          occur of
          (i) [*], or (ii) [*]:  

[*] 

8.2     [*] 

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

(a)     [*] 

(b)     [*] 

(c)     [*] 

(d)     [*] 

8.3      Fee
          Conditions   .     Each
          and
          every payment made under this Article shall be independent, non-refundable,
          and
          shall not be considered an advance or credit on any royalties or other
          obligation received or owe  d    .   

18 

8.4      Royalties
          in General   .
          In
          consideration of the exclusive license granted to Licensee hereunder, Licensee
          shall pay or cause to be paid to Cellegy the Royalty set forth herein.
          The
     Royalty     
shall
          be equal to the following amounts: 

(a)     For
          aggregate, annual Net Sales of the Product in the Territory up to [*] Million
          Euros [*], the Royalty shall be equal to [*] Percent [*] of Net
          Sales. 

(b)     For
          aggregate, annual Net Sales of the Licensed Product in the Territory in
          excess
          of [*] Million Euros [*], the Royalty shall be equal to [*] Percent [*]
          of Net
          Sales. (For example, Net Sales of [*] would accrue Royalties equal to [*]
          of [*]
          and [*] of [*], which is equal to [*].) 

8.5      Period
          for Royalty Payments; Residual Payments   .
          Royalty
          payments will continue as set forth above, on a country by country basis,
          until
          the later of (i) ten years from the  

          Launch
          Date for the Licensed Product in such country, or (ii) expiration, lapse
          or
          invalidation by a final, non appealable order or judgment of a court or
          other
          governmental authority of competent jurisdiction, of the last valid claim
          included within any of the Cellegy Patents covering such country in the
          Territory relating to the Licensed Product. Thereafter, following the period
          of
          time described in the preceding sentence, Licensee will pay Cellegy a [*]
          royalty with respect to Net Sales in such country for ongoing use of Cellegy s
          trademark Tostrex  and know-how relating to the Licensed Product.  

ARTICLE
          9 

           ROYALTY
          REPORTS AND ACCOUNTING  

9.1      Quarterly
          Royalty Reports; Records   .
          During
          the term of this Agreement after the first Launch Date, Licensee shall
          furnish
          or cause to be furnished to Cellegy a written report within sixty (60)
          days
          following the end of each preceding calendar quarter (the      Royalty
          Report     )
          covering such preceding calendar quarter (the      Royalty
          Period     )
          showing: 

(a)     the
          Net
          Sales of the Licensed Product in each country of the Territory during the
          royalty period; 

(b)     the
          Royalties, payable in Dollars, which shall have accrued hereunder in respect
          to
          such Net Sales; and 

(c)     the
          exchange rates used in determining the amount of Dollars, using the exchange
          rates normally used by Licensee in its management and financial reporting,
             provided   ,
             however   ,
          that
          the exchange rates used by Licensee in preparation of the Royalty Report
          shall
          not be materially different from the exchange rates posted in the London
          edition
          of the    Financial
          Times    published
          on the last day of such Royalty Period.  

19 

With
          respect to sales of Licensed Product invoiced in Dollars, the Net Sales
          and
          royalty payable shall be expressed in Dollars. With respect to sales of
          Licensed
          Product invoiced in a currency other than Dollars, the Net Sales and royalty
          payable shall be expressed in the domestic currency of the country where
          such
          sale was made together with the Dollar equivalent of the royalty payable,
          calculated using the exchange rates as described in clause (c) above. Licensee,
          and its Affiliates and Sublicensees shall keep contemporaneous, legible,
          verifiable and accurate records in sufficient detail to enable the royalties
          payable hereunder to be determined and substantiated. A final Royalty Report
          shall be due upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement. Any
          income or
          other tax which Licensee is requested to pay or withhold on behalf of Cellegy
          with respect to any upfront or milestone payment and Royalties shall be
          deducted
          from the amount of such upfront and milestone payments and Royalties due,
          provided, however, that in regard to any such deduction Licensee shall
          give
          Cellegy such assistance as may reasonably be necessary to enable or assist
          Cellegy to claim appropriate tax credits or exemptions threrefrom and shall
          upon
          request give Cellegy proper evidence from time to time as to the withholding
          and
          payment of the tax. If Cellegy is unable to claim such an exemption or
          recover
          such amounts that have been  

          deducted
          or withheld, or if any restrictions are imposed by a governmental entity
          in a
          particular country in the Territory regarding the payment of milestones
          or
          Royalties to companies outside of such countries, then the Steering Committee
          shall promptly meet to agree upon a suitable response. If the Steering
          Committee
          is unable to agree on a suitable response, then Cellegy may, in its discretion,
          discontinue the supply of the Licensed Product to Licensee for sale in
          such
          country.  

9.2      Payment
          Due Dates   .
          Royalties shown to have accrued by each Royalty Report provided for hereunder
          shall be due and payable on the date such Royalty Report is due. Payment
          of
          royalties in whole or in part may be made in advance of such due date.
          All
          royalty and other payments due to Cellegy hereunder, shall be made in Dollars,
          delivered to the account(s) specified by Cellegy from time to time. 

9.3      Right
          to Audit Licensee   . 

(a)     Upon
          the
          written request of Cellegy, at Cellegy s expense and not more than once in each
          year, Licensee and its Affiliates shall permit an independent public accountant
          and auditor bound to strict secrecy (the      Auditor     ),
          selected by Cellegy to have access during normal business hours to those
          records
          of Licensee and its Affiliates as may be reasonably  

           [*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

necessary
          to verify the accuracy of the Royalty Reports furnished by Licensee hereunder
          in
          respect of any year ending not more than twenty four (24) months prior
          to the
          date of such request. Cellegy acknowledges that the Auditor shall conduct
          its
          audit in such a manner so as to not unreasonably interfere with Licensee s, its
          Affiliates , or Sublicensees  business.  

(b)     Licensee
          shall include in each written sublicense granted by it pursuant to this
          Agreement a provision requiring the Sublicensee to keep and maintain records
          of
          sales made pursuant to such Sublicense and to grant access to such records
          by
          Cellegy s independent accountant bound to strict secrecy subject to the same
          terms and conditions as stated herein.  

20 

(c)     If
          the
          Auditor s report shows any underpayment of royalties, Licensee shall remit, or
          shall cause its Affiliates or Sublicensees to remit, to Cellegy the amount
          of
          such underpayment within thirty (30) days after Licensee s receipt of the
          Auditor s report assuming there is no disagreement as to the Auditor s
          calculation; if there is such a disagreement, the result shall be resolved
          under
          Section 18.14 of this Agreement. In the event that the amount of any
          underpayment of royalties is in excess of [*] percent [*] of the total
          royalties
          due to Cellegy with respect to the period covered by the Auditor s report,
          Licensee shall reimburse Cellegy for the reasonable cost of the audit in
          which
          the underpayment was discovered. In addition, in the event that the amount
          of
          any underpayment of royalties is in excess of [*] percent [*] of the total
          royalties due to Cellegy with respect to the period covered by the Auditor s
          report, Licensee shall reimburse Cellegy for the reasonable cost of the
          next
          subsequent audit  . 

21 

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

ARTICLE
          10 

          MARKETING 

10.1      General
          Promotional Duties   . 

(a)     Licensee
          shall: (i) at all times display, demonstrate and otherwise represent the
          Licensed Product fairly in comparison with other competitive products or
          therapies, (ii) shall not make false or misleading representations to customers
          or other persons with regard to the Licensed Product or Cellegy, and (iii)
          subject to sub-clause (ii), shall not make any representations with respect
          to
          the specifications, features or capabilities of the Licensed Product which
          are
          not consistent with the relevant Approvals. Licensee, its Affiliates and
          Sublicensees shall promote, market and sell the Licensed Product only for
          the
          therapeutic indications for which Approvals are granted in the
          Territory. 

10.2      Marketing
          Effort; Minimum Expenditures for Commercialization   .

(a)     Licensee
          agrees to exert its Commercially Reasonable and Diligent Efforts to introduce,
          promote and, sell the Licensed Product within the Territory, including,
          without
          limitation, the attainment of the Minimum Sales  ,
          and to
          commence sales of the Licensed Product in all Major European Countries
          within
          [*] months following Approval in such countries, subject to Section 10.3
          below. 

(b)     Licensee
          shall detail commercialization expenditures relating to the Development
          and
          marketing of the Licensed Product in the Territory in the Marketing Report
          as
          described at Section 4.4 of this Agreement.  

10.3      Licensee s
          Failure to Commercialize in the Territory    .  

(a)     If
          Licensee fails to make commercial sales of the Product in a particular
          country
          within the Territory within (i) [*] in Major European Countries, and (ii)
          [*]
          for other countries in the Territory, after Approval has been obtained
          (including price reimbursement approval where applicable) for commercial
          sale in
          such country, other than failures caused by (i) the Relevant Regulatory
          Authority approving a minimum reimbursement price for sale of the Product
          in
          such country that does not permit the Licensed Product to be economically
          sold
          in such country; or (ii) Cellegy s inability to supply Licensed Product in a
          timely manner, or (iii) Cellegy s material breach of any relevant obligation
          under this Agreement; (iv) health or safety reasons relating to the Licensed
          Product, or (v) the assertion of a proceeding or lawsuit brought against
          Licensee by any Third Party that the Intellectual Property Rights infringe
          such
          Third Party s patent, trade mark, protected know-how or other intellectual
          property right that prevents sales of the Licensed Product in a particular
          country of the Territory, then Cellegy may, upon notice to Licensee, terminate
          all of Licensee s rights under this Agreement with respect to the Licensed
          Product in such country and recapture all rights granted to Licensee with
          respect to the  

22 

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

Licensed
          Product in such country hereunder.   In
          the
          event that rights to the Licensed Product are returned to Cellegy due to
          a
          failure to launch within a particular country within the time frames specified
          above, a minimum royalty for [*] will be due with respect to the Major
          European
          Countries, and a minimum royalty for [*] will be due in any other country
          in the
          Territory. Should price reimbursement approval for the Licensed Product
          not be
          achieved in any country of the Territory the Parties shall meet to discuss
          how
          to proceed. 

(b)     If
          Licensee decides in good faith for commercial reasons not to file an application
          for Approval in a particular country within the Territory or to pursue
          commercial launch in that country following Approval, it shall notify Cellegy
          and the Parties shall discuss in good faith the termination of the license
          granted in Section 2.1 and the return of all rights to the Licensed Product
          to
          Cellegy within such country. 

10.4      Minimum
          Sales   . 

(a)      Exhibit
          C   
          hereto
          sets forth certain targets for the agreed minimum unit sales of Licensed
          Product
          in the Territory (     Minimum
          Sales     )
          for a
          period of [*]. It is acknowledged by the Parties that all Approvals pursuant
          to
          the MRP will not be obtained within [*] following the Launch Date in the
          first
          country of the Territory through no fault of Licensee and the Parties have
          agreed to vary the Minimum Sales accordingly.  

(b)     If
          Licensee fails to achieve the Minimum Sales in a given year then Licensee
          shall
          pay to Cellegy the Royalties that would have been due to Cellegy had the
          Minimum
          Sales for that particular year been achieved, such shortfall in the Royalties
          to
          be paid within sixty (60) days following the end of the relevant year.
          For the
          avoidance of doubt this shall be Cellegy s sole remedy for Licensee s failure to
          achieve the Minimum Sales in any year, except as provided in paragraph
          (d)
          below. However in the event Licensee fails to pay the relevant shortfall
          within
          sixty (60) days following the end of the relevant year this shall constitute
          material breach and Cellegy shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement
          in
          accordance with Section 16.2(c). 

(c)     The
          Minimum Sales amounts set forth on    Exhibit
          C   
          are
          subject to review and revision as described in Section 11.4 below.  

(d)     At
          any
          time commencing with  Year 3  Minimum Sales as set forth on    Exhibit
          C,   
          if
          Licensee fails to achieve, in any particular country, the annual Minimum
          Sales
          amounts for such country as set forth on    Exhibit
          C   
          for any
          [*] consecutive years, and if the Relevant Regulatory Authority for such
          country
          has not required any substantial and significant changes to the Current
          SmPC
          that can reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect Licensee s
          competitive position and ability to market and sell the Licensed Product
          in such
          country, then if the Steering Committee cannot agree (without the occurrence
          of
          a deadlock) on mutually satisfactory modifications to the Minimum Sales
          amounts
          for such country, then Cellegy may, at its option, make the exclusive license
          granted pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.2  

23 

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

herein
          a
          nonexclusive license for the remainder of the term of this Agreement as
          it
          relates to such country in the Territory, except for the right to use Cellegy
          Marks granted to Licensee hereunder, which shall continue to be exclusive
          for
          Cellegy s Mark actually being used in connection with the Licensed Product, and
          without limiting the above may import, store, Develop, have Developed,
          promote,
          market, distribute, offer for sale, and sell the Licensed Product in such
          country on its own or through a Third Party licensee. 

ARTICLE
          11 

           MANUFACTURING;
          SUPPLY OF LICENSED PRODUCT  

11.1      Production
          and Supply of Product   . 

(a)     Without
          limitation on Cellegy s other rights, during the term of this Agreement and
          thereafter, Cellegy may, without obligation or liability to Licensee,
          manufacture, have manufactured, produce, assemble, warehouse or source
          the
          Licensed Product for sale outside of the Territory at any worldwide location,
          including Canada or the United States of America and locations within or
          outside
          the Territory.  

(b)     Cellegy
          agrees to use all Commercially Reasnoable and Diligent Efforts to (i) maintain
          its existing Cellegy Supply Agreement with the existing Manufacturer until
          at
          least March 31, 2006, (ii) cooperate with Licensee with the goal that,
          prior to
          the establishment of the Licensee Supply Agreement, Licensee may purchase
          Licensed Product directly from the Manufacturer, and (iii) until Licensee
          enters
          into a Licensee Supply Agreement, cooperate with Licensee to involve Licensee
          in
          discussions between Cellegy and Manufacturer concerning produt pricing
          or other
          material terms of the Cellegy Supply Agreement.  

11.2      Forecasts   .  
          Until
          such time as Licensee enters into a Licensee Supply Agrement, Licensee
          shall be
          responsible for combining (if practicable in Licensee s sole opinion) its
          forecast for Licensed Product in the Territory and Cellegy s forecast for
          Licensed Product outside the Territory and for delivering all combined
          forecasts
          for the Parties to the Manufacturer providing that both Cellegy and Licensee
          are
          utilizing the same Manufacturer. Should the Parties decide to utilize separate
          manufacturers, each Party will be responsible for providing their Manufacturer
          with its own forecasts.  

11.3     [*] 

11.4      Pricing   .
            For
          each
          order of Licensed Product delivered to Licensee by Manufacturer, Licensee
          will
          pay Cellegy the Cellegy Surcharge (plus, if applicable, the additional
          percentage of total Licensed Product cost and Cellegy Surcharge as set
          forth
          below) within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of the invoice for such
          order
          from Manufacturer.   Licensee
          will pay Cellegy the Cellegy Surcharge multiplied by the number of Licensed
          Product units on the relevant Manufacturer invoice for supply of the Licensed
          Product to Licensee.  

24 

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

(a)     If
          the
          royalty paid to Cellegy for each unit of Licensed Product sold is equal
          to or
          greater than [*], Licensee shall pay Cellegy the Cellegy Surcharge multiplied
          by
          the number of Licensed Product units.  

(b)     If
          the
          royalty paid to Cellegy for each unit of Licensed Product sold is between
          [*],
          Licensee shall pay Cellegy the Cellegy Surcharge multiplied by the number
          of
          Licensed Product units, plus [*] of the total of the invoiced purchase
          price
          from the Manufacturer and the Cellegy Surcharge. 

(c)     If
          the
          royalty paid to Cellegy for each unit of Licensed Product sold is less
          than [*],
          Licensee shall pay Cellegy the Cellegy Surcharge multiplied by the number
          of
          Licensed Product units, plus [*] of the total of the invoiced purchase
          price
          from the Manufacturer and the Cellegy Surcharge.. 

(d)     Both
          Parties agree to work in mutual cooperation and in collaboration with
          Manufacturer to manage the purchase price, production, packaging, delivery
          and
          availability of the Licensed Product for sale in the Territory. The Parties
          agree to explore arrangements for Cellegy to contract with a secondary
          Manufacturer as a back-up manufacturer of Licensed Product as soon as reasonably
          possible. Cellegy agrees to inform Licensee of any amendments to any
          Manufacturer contract that may have any material effect on the purchase
          price of
          the Licensed Product.  

11.5         Warranty
          Limitation; Disclaimer     .
          Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, the sole warranty, if
          any,
          given by Cellegy regarding any Licensed Product shall be that written limited
          warranty, if any, which shall accompany such Licensed Product or which
          shall
          otherwise be designated in writing by Cellegy as applicable to such Licensed
          Product, as the same may be revised by Cellegy from time to time. After
          the
          initial commercial launch of the Licensed Product, subsequent changes to
          the
          written limited warranty must be approved by Licensee, which approval shall
          not
          be unreasonably withheld. THE WRITTEN LIMITED WARRANTY, IF ANY, APPLICABLE
          TO
          ANY PARTICULAR PRODUCT SHALL STATE THE FULL EXTENT OF CELLEGY S LIABILITY,
          WHETHER DIRECT OR INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL, RESULTING FROM ANY
          BREACH
          OF SUCH WARRANTY. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT WITH
          RESPECT
          TO WARRANTIES MADE TO LICENSEE, CELLEGY FURTHER DISCLAIMS ALL EXPRESS,
          STATUTORY
          AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES APPLICABLE TO THE LICENSED PRODUCT.  

11.6      Recalls   .    

(a)     Licensee
          may recall any quantity of Licensed Product at any time, and Licensee will
          administer any such recall in the Territory. 

25 

(b)     If
          the
          Relevant Regulatory Authority requires or otherwise initiates a recall
          of the
          Licensed Product for any reason whatsoever, Licensee will immediately administer
          the recall.  

ARTICLE
          12 

           PATENT
          RIGHTS  

12.1      No
          Ownership By Licensee   .
          Licensee shall not be deemed by anything contained in this Agreement or
          done
          pursuant to it to acquire any right, title or interest in or to the Cellegy
          Patent Rights or any patent owned by or licensed to Cellegy now or hereafter
          covering or applicable to any Licensed Product, nor in or to any invention
          or
          improvement, owned by Cellegy, now or hereafter embodied in the Licensed
          Product, whether or not such invention or improvement is patentable under
          the
          laws of any country.  

12.2      New
          Cellegy Inventions/Improvements to the Licensed Product   .
          If
          Cellegy develops and commercially offers: 

(a)
            any
          improvements in terms of dosage, route of administration or formulation
          of the
          Licensed Product for the same indication; or 

(b)     any
          improvement in terms of dosage, route of administration or formulation
          of any
          product derived from the Licensed Product for the same indication;
          then 

such
          improvements shall be included within the definition of Licensed Product
          herein
          at no additional costs to Licensee.  

12.3      Improvements
          by Licensee   .
          If,
          during the term of the Prior Agreement or this Agreement or within one
          (1) year
          after the date of its termination, Licensee or any Sublicensee invents
          or
          designs any improved Licensed Product or any associated method, apparatus,
          equipment or process related to or having application to the Licensed Product,
          or makes an improvement thereon, whether or not patented or patentable
          in any
          jurisdiction, Licensee shall make or cause a prompt and full disclosure
          to
          Cellegy of such invention, design or improvement (     Licensee
          Improvement     ),
          and
          hereby irrevocably transfers, conveys and assigns to Cellegy all of its
          right,
          title and interest therein. Licensee shall execute such documents, render
          such
          assistance, and take such other action as Cellegy may reasonably request,
          at
          Cellegy s expense, to apply for, register, perfect, confirm, and protect
          Cellegy s rights therein. Cellegy shall have the exclusive right to apply for or
          register any patents or other proprietary protections with respect thereto.
          Such
          Licensee Improvements shall be licensed back from Cellegy to Licensee as,
          and
          shall be deemed part of, the Licensed Product, at no additional cost to
          Licensee.  

26 

ARTICLE
          13  

           CELLEGY
          MARKS     

13.1      Use
          of
          Cellegy Marks by Licensee   .
          Licensee, its Affiliates and Sublicensees will have the exclusive right
          to use
          Cellegy s Mark Tostrex in the Territory in connection with the importation,
          storage, Development, promotion, marketing, distribution and sale of Licensed
          Product. In such event, Licensee and its Affiliates (and Sublicensees)
          shall use
          Cellegy s Marks only in the form and manner prescribed by Cellegy. In no event
          shall Licensee use any of Cellegy s Marks or any similar mark or term as part of
          its business name. Should Tostrex not be registered or registerable by
          Cellegy
          in all countries of the Territory, then Cellegy may notify Licensee that
          one of
          the other  Cellegy s Marks  will be used; and if no such marks are registered or
          registerable by Cellegy in all countries of the Territory, then Licensee
          may
          propose an alternative trade mark/s for Cellegy s approval, such approval not to
          be unreasonably withheld or delayed Cellegy shall apply for and maintain
          such
          alternative trade mark at Cellegy s sole expense and such alternate trade mark
          shall become a Cellegy Mark under the terms of this Agreement.  

13.2      Acknowledgment
          of Ownership   .
          Licensee acknowledges that  

(a)     Cellegy
          owns Cellegy s Marks and all goodwill associated with or symbolized by Cellegy s
          Marks; 

(b)     Licensee
          has no ownership right in or to any of Cellegy s Marks; and  

(c)     Licensee
          shall acquire no ownership interest in or to any of Cellegy s Marks by virtue of
          this Agreement. Licensee shall do nothing inconsistent with Cellegy's ownership
          of Cellegy s Marks and related goodwill, shall not directly or indirectly
          contest the validity of or Cellegy s rights in the Cellegy Marks, and agrees
          that all use of Cellegy s Marks by Licensee shall inure to the benefit of
          Cellegy. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute or result
          in an
          assignment of any of Cellegy s Marks to Licensee or the creation of any
          equitable or other interests therein. Licensee shall not use any of Cellegy s
          Marks in any manner as a part of its business, corporate or trade
          name. 

13.3      Marking   .
          Licensee shall mark all advertising, promotional or other materials created
          by
          it and bearing any of Cellegy s Marks (the      Licensee
          Material     )
          with
          such notices as Cellegy may reasonably require, including, but not limited
          to,
          notices that Cellegy s Marks are trademarks of Cellegy and are being used with
          the permission of Cellegy. 

13.4      Registration      .     
          Cellegy
          shall have the sole right to take such action as it deems appropriate to
          obtain
          trademark registration in the Territory for any of Cellegy s Marks. If it shall
          be necessary for Licensee to be the applicant to effect any such registrations,
          Licensee shall cooperate with Cellegy to effect any such registrations,
          and
          hereby does assign all of its right, title and interest in and to each
          such
          application, and any resulting registration, to Cellegy, and shall execute
          all
          papers and documents necessary to effectuate or confirm any such assignment.
          Licensee shall perform all reasonable and necessary acts and execute all
          necessary documents to affect the registration of Cellegy s Marks as Cellegy may
          request, all at Cellegy's sole expense. Licensee shall not obtain or attempt
          to
          obtain in the Territory, or elsewhere, any right, title or interest,
          registration, or otherwise, in or to Cellegy s Marks, or any of them. In the
          event that any such right, title or interest should be obtained by Licensee
          in
          contravention hereof, Licensee shall hold the same on behalf of Cellegy
          and
          shall transfer the same to Cellegy upon request and without expense to
          Cellegy. 

27 

13.5      Termination
          of Use   .
          Upon
          expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, Licensee shall cease
          using
          Cellegy s Marks in any manner, either similar or dissimilar to the use
          enumerated above. 

13.6      Trademarks   .
          Licensee further agrees not to use any Cellegy marks in connection with
          any
          products other than the Licensed Product. Licensee also will include the
          appropriate trademark notices when referring to any Licensed Product in
          advertising and promotional materials. Licensee covenants and warrants
          that
          Licensee's use of Cellegy s Marks or other trademarks, trade names, logos and
          designations of Cellegy on any Licensed Product, Licensed Product packaging
          or
          labels, or related materials that Licensee or its Agents prepare or use
          will be
          in accordance with Cellegy s reasonable intellectual property policies in effect
          from time to time, including but not limited to trademark usage and cooperative
          advertising policies. Licensee agrees not to attach any additional trademarks,
          trade names, logos or designations to any Licensed Product except in compliance
          with such policies or otherwise with Cellegy s prior written consent, which
          shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld. Licensee will include on
          each
          Licensed Product that it distributes, and on all containers and storage
          media
          therefor, all trademark, copyright and other notices of proprietary rights
          included by Cellegy on such Licensed Product. Licensee agrees not to alter,
          erase, deface or overprint any such notice on anything provided by Cellegy.
          Licensee also will include the appropriate trademark notices when referring
          to
          any Licensed Product in advertising and promotional materials. Licensee
          shall
          submit to Cellegy for its prior written approval (which shall not be
          unreasonably delayed or withheld) and before any use is made thereof,
          representative samples of the initial Licensed Product, packages, containers,
          and advertising or promotional materials bearing any of Cellegy s Marks which
          Licensee or its Sublicensees prepare, but need not seek prior approval
          for
          subsequent uses of such materials that are in compliance with Cellegy s
          policies. Licensee shall also submit to Cellegy for its prior written approval
          (which shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld) any such materials
          that
          may not be consistent with Cellegy s intellectual property policies in effect
          from time to time, and Cellegy shall use all reasonable efforts to respond
          promptly to give its approval or indicate the respects in which changes
          are
          required in light of Cellegy s policies. Cellegy and Licensee shall cooperate
          with each other and use reasonable efforts to protect the Cellegy Marks
          from
          infringement by Third Parties. 

ARTICLE
          14  

           INFRINGEMENT  ;
          INDEMNIFICATION AND OTHER CLAIMS  

14.1
            I   nfringement
          of Intellectual Property Rights   .
          In the
          event Cellegy or Licensee have reason to believe that a Third Party may
          be
          infringing or diluting, as the case may be, Intellectual Property Rights
          or
          misappropriating the Licensed Product, such Party shall promptly notify
          the
          other Party. Cellegy may, in its discretion, elect to enforce the Intellectual
          Property Rights through legal action or otherwise, and Licensee agrees
          to
          reasonably cooperate with Cellegy in such enforcement subject to reimbursement
          of its reasonable out-of-pocket expenses together with any reasonable attorneys
          fees incurred in connection therewith. In the event Cellegy elects not
          to
          enforce the Patent Rights relating to the Licensed Product within sixty
          (60)
          days after notice of the possible infringement or dilution, and Licensee
          can
          demonstrate that the potential infringement or dilution is reasonably likely
          to
          result in material lost sales of the Licensed Product within the applicable
          country, then Licensee may institute a lawsuit or other such actions at
          its
          expense to prevent continuation of such potential infringement or dilution,
          and
          then (i) during the pendency of such action, Licensee shall be entitled
          to defer
          the payment of 50% of the royalties due to Cellegy on Net Sales under Section
          8.4 in the relevant country or countries, with such deferred amount being
          paid
          to Cellegy at the successful conclusion of such action, and (ii) Licensee
          will
          retain all award, damages or compensation obtained by Licensee in such
          suit,
          except that Cellegy shall receive a portion equivalent to the royalties
          it would
          have received in accordance with the terms of this Agreement as if such
          amount
          were Net Sales of Licensee. Cellegy will provide reasonable cooperation
          with
          respect to any lawsuit which Licensee may bring pursuant to this Article,
          subject to reimbursement of its reasonable out-of-pocket expenses and reasonable
          attorneys fees in connection therewith. Licensee shall not enter into any
          settlement or compromise of any such claim without the prior written consent
          of
          Cellegy, which shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld. 

28 

14.2
             Alleged
          Infringement of Third Party Intellectual Property Rights   . 

(a)
            If
          a
          claim or lawsuit is brought against Licensee alleging infringment of any
          patent
          or infringement or dilution of any trademark owned by a Third Party arising
          from
          Licensee s importation, storage, Development, promotion, marketing, distribution
          and sale     of
          the
          Licensed Product or use of proprietory rights, Licensee shall provide to
          Cellegy
          all information in Licensee s possession regarding such claim or lawsuit. Within
          a reasonable time after receiving notice of such claim or lawsuit, but
          in any
          event within sixty (60) days after receiving such notice, Cellegy shall
          advise
          Licensee of Cellegy s decision as what action it plans to take to dispose of
          such claim or defend such lawsuit. 

(b)
            If
          Cellegy elects not to dispose of such claim or defend such lawsuit, Licensee
          may
          defend the claim or lawsuit. Licensee shall not enter into any settlement
          or
          compromise of any such claim or lawsuit without the prior written consent
          of
          Cellegy, which shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld. For the purpose
          of
          Licensee s conduct of the claim or defense, Cellegy shall furnish to Licensee
          such reasonable assistance as Licensee may need and from time to time reasonably
          request.  

14.3      Product
          Liability Claims   .
          Licensee shall immediately notify Cellegy in writing of any product liability
          claim or product liability action brought against Licensee with respect
          to the
          Licensed Product based on any reason other than (i) alleged defects in
          the
          manufacture or supply of the Licensed Product or (ii) any action or inaction
          in
          relation to the manufacture or supply of the Licensed Product on the part
          of
          Licensee or any of its employees, affiliates or sublicensees (a      Product
          Liability Claim     ).
          Upon
          receiving such written notice, Cellegy shall assume and have sole control
          of the
          defense of any such claim or action, including the power to conduct and
          conclude
          any and all negotiations, compromises or settlements. Licensee may participate
          in (but not control) the defense of any such Product Liability Claim, but
          at its
          own expense. Licensee shall comply with all reasonable requests from Cellegy
          for
          information, materials or assistance, with respect to the conduct of such
          defense at Cellegy's expense. Cellegy shall be responsible for payment
          of all
          Product Liability Claims. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as
          requiring Cellegy to conduct and/or assume Licensee's independent defense
          against any claim or action, if such claim or action involves the independent
          conduct, acts or omissions of Licensee for Product Liability Claims or
          actions
          brought with respect to the manufacture or supply of the Licensed
          Product. 

29 

14.4      Notice
          from Licensee   .
          Licensee shall promptly notify Cellegy of any potential or actual litigation
          or
          governmental activity in the Territory relating to the Licensed Product
          or the
          business operations of Licensee or Cellegy. Licensee shall provide such
          notice
          within ten (10) days from the time that Licensee learns of such litigation
          or
          activity. 

14.5      Indemnification   .

(a)     Cellegy
          assumes all risk of loss and indemnifies and holds harmless Licensee, its
          Affiliates, Sublicensees and their respective directors, officers and employees
          from and against any and all Loss arising from or incidental to or relating
          to
          any claim, demand, lawsuit, action or proceeding (a      Claim     )
          arising from or relating to: 

(i)     any
          claim
          or lawsuit which relates to or arises out of the alleged infringement by
          Licensee of any patent or trademark owned by a Third Party to the extent
          that
          the alleged infringement relates to actions covered by the Exclusive License
          granted to Licensee under Section 2.1 of this Agreement; 

(ii)     the
          manufacture, importation, storage, Development, promotion, marketing,
          distribution or sale of the Licensed Product based on action or inaction
          of
          Cellegy; 

(iii)     a
          Product
          Liability Claim based on action or inaction of Cellegy; or 

(iv)     any
          negligence or willful default of Cellegy relating to the Licensed Product
          or
          this Agreement; or any breach by Cellegy of any representation or warranty
          given
          in this Agreement. 

(b)     Licensee
          assumes all risk of loss and indemnifies and holds harmless Cellegy from
          all
          Loss arising from or incidental to or relating to any claim, action or
          proceeding arising from or relating to: 

(i)     the
          manufacture, importation, storage, Development, promotion, marketing,
          distribution, or sale, of the Licensed Product based on action or inaction
          of
          Licensee, Affiliates, Sublicensees or their respective directors, officers
          and
          employees (Licensee and such other Persons sometimes referred to as
     Licensee
          Indemnified Persons     

(ii)     any
          Product Liability claim based on action or inaction of any Licensee Indemnified
          Person; 

(iii)     any
          breach by any Licensee Indemnified Person of any representation or warranty
          given in this Agreement; any negligence or willful default of any Licensee
          Indemnified Person relating to the Licensed Product or this Agreement;
          or 

30 

(iv)     any
          breach by Licensee of any representation or warranty given in this
          Agreement. 

(c)     Licensee
          shall give Cellegy written notice (a      Notice
          of Claim     )
          promptly after Licensee becomes aware of the assertion, whether orally
          or in
          writing, of a Claim brought by a Third Party (in each such case, a      Third-Party
          Claim     )
          that
          may require indemnification pursuant to this Agreement. Each Notice of
          Claim by
          a party hereunder will contain the following information: 

(i)     that
          the
          Person has incurred, paid or accrued or, in good faith, believes it will
          have to
          incur, pay or accrue, Losses and, if reasonably determinable at the time,
          a good
          faith estimate of the aggregate amount of Losses arising from such Claim
          (which
          amount may be the amount of damages claimed by a third party in the Claim);
          and 

(ii)     A
          BRIEF
          DESCRIPTION, IN REASONABLE DETAIL (TO THE EXTENT REASONABLY AVAILABLE TO
          THE
          PARTY), OF THE FACTS, CIRCUMSTANCES OR EVENTS GIVING RISE TO THE ALLEGED
          LOSSES
          BASED ON THE PARTY S GOOD FAITH BELIEF THEREOF, INCLUDING THE IDENTITY AND
          ADDRESS OF ANY THIRD-PARTY CLAIMANT AND COPIES OF ANY FORMAL DEMAND OR
          COMPLAINT, THE AMOUNT OF LOSSES, THE DATE EACH SUCH ITEM WAS INCURRED,
          PAID OR
          ACCRUED, OR THE BASIS FOR SUCH ANTICIPATED LIABILITY, AND THE SPECIFIC
          NATURE OF
          THE BREACH TO WHICH SUCH ITEM IS RELATED.  

ARTICLE
          15 

           CONFIDENTIALITY  

15.1      Treatment
          of Confidential Information   .
          Except
          as otherwise provided in this Article 15, during the term of this Agreement
          and for a period of five (5) years thereafter, Licensee and its Affiliates
          will
          retain in confidence and use only for purposes of this Agreement any
          information, data, and materials supplied by Cellegy or on behalf of Cellegy
          to
          Licensee and its Affiliates under this Agreement, and Cellegy will retain
          in
          confidence and use only for purposes of this Agreement any information,
          data,
          and materials supplied by Licensee or on behalf of Licensee to Cellegy
          under
          this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, all such information and
          data
          which a party is obligated to retain in confidence shall be called      Confidential
          Information    . 
For
          the avoidance of doubt, Cellegy Information shall constitute Confidential
          Information of Cellegy. 

15.2      Right
          to Disclose   .
          To the
          extent it is reasonably necessary or appropriate to fulfill its obligations
          or
          exercise its rights under this Agreement or any rights which survive termination
          or expiration hereof, Licensee may disclose Confidential Information to
          its
          Affiliates, Sublicensees, consultants, outside contractors, clinical
          investigators or other Third Parties on condition that such entities or
          persons
          agree in writing (a) to keep the Confidential Information confidential for
          the same time periods and to the same extent as Licensee is required to
          keep the
          Confidential Information confidential and (b) to use the Confidential
          Information only for such purposes as Licensee is entitled to use the
          Confidential Information. Each Party or its Affiliates or sublicensees
          may
          disclose such Confidential Information to government or other regulatory
          authorities to the extent that such disclosure (i) is reasonably necessary
          to obtain Approvals; or (ii) is otherwise legally required. 

31 

15.3      Release
          From Restrictions   .
          The
          foregoing obligations in respect of disclosure and use of Confidential
          Information shall not apply to any part of such Confidential Information
          that
          the non-disclosing party, or its Affiliates (all collectively referred
          to as the
     Receiving
          Party     )
          can
          demonstrate by contemporaneously prepared written evidence: 

(a)     is
          or
          becomes part of the public domain other than by acts of the Receiving Party
          in
          contravention of this Agreement; 

(b)     is
          disclosed to the Receiving Party or its Affiliates or Sublicensees by a
          Third
          Party, provided such Confidential Information was not obtained by such
          Third
          Party directly or indirectly from the other party under this
          Agreement; 

(c)     prior
          to
          disclosure under this Agreement, was already in the possession of the Receiving
          Party or its Affiliates or Sublicensees, provided such Confidential Information
          was not obtained, directly or indirectly, from the other party under this
          Agreement; or 

(d)     results
          from research and development by persons who have not had access to the
          disclosures made to Receiving Party under this Agreement, including any
          information obtained through the testing, manufacturing regulatory approval,
          or
          distribution of the Licensed Product, or other activities undertaken in
          connection with this Agreement by the Receiving Party. 

15.4      Confidentiality
          of Agreement   .
          Except
          as otherwise required by law or the terms of this Agreement or mutually
          agreed
          upon by the Parties, each Party shall treat as confidential the terms,
          conditions and existence of this Agreement, except that each Party may
          disclose
          such terms and conditions and the existence of this Agreement to its Affiliates,
          sublicensees, and shareholders to the extent required by the any corporate
          laws,
          and provided, that each Party shall seek confidential treatment of the
          key
          business terms contained in this Agreement, including but not limited to
          all
          payments owed hereunder. Upon the execution of this Agreement, the Parties
          shall
          draft a joint press release, the text of such shall be mutually agreeable
          to
          each Party, announcing the execution of the Agreement. 

15.5      Return
          of Confidential Information   .
          Upon
          termination of this Agreement with respect to the entire Territory, the
          Parties
          and Affiliates and sublicensees shall return all Confidential Information
          of the
          other Party, in their possession along with a certification that they no
          longer
          possess any such Confidential Information. 

15.6      Previous
          Confidentiality Agreements   .
          Confidential information disclosed by either Party to the other Party or
          its
          Affiliates prior to the Effective Date of this Agreement under any written
          agreement executed by Cellegy and Licensee shall be treated as Confidential
          Information under Section 15.1 notwithstanding expiration of such prior
          Confidentiality Agreement.  

32 

ARTICLE
          16  

           TERM;
          TERMINATION  

16.1      Term   .
          Unless
          terminated sooner pursuant to this Article 16, this Agreement shall become
          effective as of the Effective Date and shall continue in full force and
          effect
          in each country until the later of (i) the date of expiration of the last
          to
          expire of Licensee s obligation to make royalty payments in a particular
          country, or (ii) ten years from the Launch Date. For countries in which
          none of
          Cellegy s Patents are filed, the Agreement shall terminate upon the date of the
          last to expire of Cellegy s Patents in the last applicable country. Such
          termination may be made with respect to one or more countries of the Territory
          without affecting the rest of this Agreement or the Exclusive License granted
          hereunder in any other country of the Territory.  

16.2      Bilateral
          Termination Rights   .
          Either
          Party may terminate this Agreement in whole or in part upon the occurrence
          of
          any of the following: 

(a)
          The
          other Party becomes the subject of voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency case;
          or 

(b)
          The
          other Party becomes the subject of an involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency
          case
          that is not dismissed within ninety (90) days; or 

(c)     Upon
          or
          after the material breach of any provision of this Agreement by the other
          Party,
          if such material breach is not cured (if such default is capable of cure)
          within
          thirty (30) days after written notice thereof to the Party in
          default. 

16.3      Cellegy s
          Right to Terminate    .   
          Cellegy
          may terminate this Agreement with immediate effect upon written notice
          to
          Licensee if a Change in Control of Licensee shall occur, PROVIDED THAT
          this
          shall not apply in the case whereby Licensee or its Affiliates undergoes
          an
          initial public offering of its stock on a recognized stock exchange. Subject
          to
          the aforesaid provision, for purposes of this Article, a      Change
          in Control     
means
          (i) any reorganization, consolidation, merger, tender offer, purchase of
          stock
          or similar transaction or series of related transactions (each, a "    combination
          transaction    ")
          in
          which Licensee (or any direct or indirect parent entity of Licensee (a
               Parent     ))
          is a
          constituent corporation or is a party if, as a result of such combination
          transaction, the voting securities of Licensee (or any Parent) that are
          outstanding immediately before the consummation of such combination transaction
          (   other       than   
          any such
          securities that are held by an "Acquiring Stockholder", as defined below)
            do
          not
          represent, or are not converted into, securities of the surviving corporation
          of
          such combination transaction (or such surviving corporation s parent or other
          Affiliate) that, immediately after the consummation of such combination
          transaction, together possess at least a majority of the total voting power
          of
          all outstanding securities of such surviving corporation (or its parent
          or other
          Affiliate, if applicable) that are outstanding immediately after the
          consummation of   such
          combination transaction, including securities of such surviving corporation
          (or
          its parent or other Affiliate, if applicable) that are held by the Acquiring
          Stockholder; or (ii) a sale of all or substantially all of the assets or
          the
          business of the Licensee (or any Parent), if, and only if, in each of the
          above
          cases, the acquiring entity (or its parent or other Affiliate) engages
          in the

33 

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

development,
          distribution, or sale of Competing Licensed Products. For purposes of this
          Article, an "    Acquiring
          Stockholder    "
          means a
          stockholder or stockholders of the Licensee (or any Parent) that (i) merges
          or
          combines with the Licensee (or any Parent) in such combination transaction
          or
          (ii) owns or controls a majority of another corporation that merges or
          combines with the Licensee (or Parent) in such combination transaction.
          Licensee
          agrees to use its Commercially Reasonable and Diligent Efforts to notify
          Cellegy
          at least thirty (30) days before any such Change in Control.  

16.4      Licensee s
          Right to Terminate    .   
          Licensee
          may terminate this Agreement; (i) immediately on written notice on health
          or
          safety grounds in relation to the Licensed Product; (ii) immediately on
          written
          notice if Approval is not obtained by Cellegy in Sweden; (iii) immediately
          on
          written notice if Approvals is not obtained, through no fault of Licensee,
          in
          all Major European Countries within [*] of MRP being initiated; (iv) on
          one (1)
          year s written notice to Cellegy should it no longer be economically viable
          to
          market the Licensed Product, based on Licensee s reasonable opinion and
          determined on a country by country basis; or (v) immediately upon written
          notice
          if a claim by any Third Party that the Intellectual Property Rights infringe
          such Third Party s patent, trade mark, protected know-how or other intellectual
          property right is made against Licensee and which either (A) prevents use
          of the
          Licensed Product in any country of the Territory for a period of sixty
          (60)
          consecutive days, or (B) is not being challenged by either Party pursuant
          to
          Article 14 in relation to such country.  

16.5      Rights
          Upon Termination or Expiration   .
          Termination of this Agreement shall not extinguish debts and other obligations
          created or arising between the Parties by virtue of contracts or arrangements
          entered into hereunder before the effective date of termination of this
          Agreement (the "    Termination
          Date    ").
          Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, upon and following the
          Termination Date: 

(a)     Licensee
          shall not be relieved of its obligation to (i) pay for Licensed Product
          delivered by Cellegy prior to the Termination Date, or (ii) accept and
          pay for
          all Licensed Product covered by orders received and accepted by Cellegy
          prior to
          the Termination Date. Cellegy shall be obligated to complete all orders
          received
          and accepted prior to the Termination Date, provided that Cellegy receives
          reasonable assurance of payment. In each such case, Licensee shall be permitted
          to store, promote, sell and distribute such Licensed Product as well as
          any
          Licensed Product in Licensee's inventory within the Territory, subject
          to the
          provisions of paragraph (h) below and provided that Licensee shall not
          sell or
          otherwise dispose any of the Licensed Product in bulk, in any non-customary
          manner or otherwise circumvent its regular customers. 

34 

(b)     Licensee
          shall cooperate with Cellegy to allow for the orderly transfer of Approvals
          within the Territory to Cellegy or its designee upon request and without
          expense
          to Cellegy. Licensee shall provide Cellegy with (i) full and immediate
          access to
          and copies of all marketing and sales information and other materials pertaining
          to the Licensed Product, including, without limitation, customer lists,
          past
          sales history and Licensed Product pricing information, and (ii) any inventions
          or other materials or rights required to be assigned to Cellegy pursuant
          to this
          Agreement. Notwithstanding any other term or provision of this Agreement,
          effective upon the Termination Date, Licensee shall execute any documents
          that
          are necessary to transfer to Cellegy, or Cellegy s designee, all Approvals or
          intellectual property which are then in the name of and/or held by Licensee
          and
          which relate to the marketing or sale of the Licensed Product (the      Relevant
          Documents     ).
          In
          the event that full Approvals for any Licensed Product in the Territory
          are not
          completed before any transfer of operations pursuant to this Article, Licensee
          shall also transfer to Cellegy or Cellegy s designee, free of any charge, the
          Cellegy Information and all the data submitted to the Relevant Regulatory
          Authorities therefor. At Cellegy s request, Licensee shall authorize Cellegy s
          nominee, without any delay, to perform all the required activities in order
          to
          obtain the transfer of such permits and registration rights. If Licensee
          fails
          to execute the Relevant Documents, it hereby appoints Cellegy as its agent
          and
          authorizes Cellegy to act on its behalf, in order to execute all Relevant
          Documents. Licensee, its Affiliates and Sublicensees shall terminate any
          use of
          the Cellegy Marks and shall, at Cellegy s option, either destroy or return to
          Cellegy at Licensee s cost all literature, labels, or other materials,
          incorporation or bearing same.  

(c)     Each
          party shall cease to use any of the other party s Confidential Information
          relating to or in connection with its continued business operations and
          shall
          promptly return or assign to the other party any and all physical, written
          and
          descriptive matter (including all reproductions and copies thereof) containing
          that party s Confidential Information, provided that each party
          may: 

(i)
               provide
          one copy of the other party s Confidential Information to its legal advisers to
          be held by them solely for the purpose of determining the scope of that
          party s
          obligations under this clause; 

(ii)
               retain
          one copy of such of the other party s Confidential Information that is required
          by the Relevant Regulatory Authorities in the Territory, to be retained
          by that
          party; and 

(iii)
               retain
          any documents confidential to it (including board papers, strategic plans
          and
          operational reviews) in which the other party s Confidential Information is
          incorporated, provided that such confidential information shall continue
          to be
          treated as Confidential Information hereunder. 

(d)     Upon
          expiration or termination for any reason, the obligations of confidentiality
          and
          use of Confidential Information under Article 15 shall survive for the
          period provided therein; 

(e)     Upon
          expiration or termination for any reason, Articles 14 and 16 of this Agreement
          shall survive for the maximum duration permitted by law; 

35 

(f)     Articles
          5, 8 and 9 shall survive until all outstanding payment obligations and
          reporting
          obligations of Licensee and its Affiliates and Sublicensees have been fulfilled,
          and Sections 9.3 and 9.4 shall survive for two years following the year
          in which
          such or expiration became effective; and 

(g)     Cellegy
          shall have the right to repurchase all then-current inventory of the Licensed
          Product then in Licensee s possession, at the landed cost paid by Licensee for
          such inventory (including delivery, insurance and any applicable import/export
          taxes paid thereon).  

ARTICLE
          17  

           REGISTRATION
          OF LICENSE  ;
          LIMITATION OF LIABILITY  

17.1      Registration   .
          Licensee may, at its expense, register the exclusive license granted under
          this
          Agreement in any country of the Territory where the government of such
          country
          would require one for use, sale or distribution of the Licensed Product
          in such
          country and Cellegy shall reasonably cooperate in such registration at
          Licensee s expense. Upon request by Licensee, Cellegy agrees promptly to execute
          any  short form  licenses developed in a form reasonably acceptable to both
          Licensee and Cellegy and reasonably submitted to it by Licensee from time
          to
          time in order to effect the foregoing registration in such country at no
          cost to
          Licensee. 

17.2      Limitation
          of Liability   
          NEITHER
          PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
          DAMAGES, WHETHER BASED ON BREACH OF CONTRACT, WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING
          NEGLIGENCE) OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT SUCH PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED
          OF THE
          POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. NOTHWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY,
          NEITHER
          PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUBJECT MATTER
          OF
          THIS AGREEMENT UNDER ANY CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHER
          LEGAL
          OR EQUITABLE THEORY FOR ANY AMOUNTS IN EXCESS OF THE AMOUNTS RECEIVED BY
          CELLEGY
          FROM LICENSEE HEREUNDER. THIS LIMITATION WILL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING ANY
          FAILURE
          OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY PROVIDED HEREIN. 

ARTICLE
          18  

           GENERAL
          PROVISIONS  

18.1      Force
          Majeure   .
          Neither
          Party shall be held liable or responsible to the other Party nor be deemed
          to
          have defaulted under or breached this Agreement for failure or delay in
          fulfilling or performing any term of this Agreement, other than an obligation
          to
          make payments hereunder, when such failure or delay is caused by or results
          from
          fire, floods, embargoes, government regulations, prohibitions or interventions,
          war, acts of war (whether war be declared or not), insurrections, riots,
          civil
          commotions, strikes, lockouts, acts of God or any other cause beyond the
          reasonable control of the affected party to anticipate, prevent, avoid
          or
          mitigate (a      Force
          Majeure Event     
          provided, however, that any failure or delay in fulfilling a term of this
          Agreement shall not be considered a result of a Force Majeure Event if
          it arises
          from a failure of Licensee or Cellegy to comply with applicable laws and
          regulations. In the event of force majeure lasting more than sixty days
          (60)
          days, the Parties agree to meet and discuss how this Agreement can be justly
          and
          fairly implemented under the circumstances prevailing in such Country or
          Countries and if the Parties are unable to agree upon how the Agreement
          can be
  implemented
          then either Party may terminate the Agreement in relation to such country
          or
          countries upon sixty (60) days written notice. 

36 

18.2      Further
          Assurances   .
          Each
          Party to agrees to perform such acts, execute such further instruments,
          documents or certificates, and provide such cooperation in proceedings
          and
          actions as may be reasonably requested by the other Party in order to carry
          out
          the intent and purpose of this Agreement, including without limitation
          the
          registration or recordation of the rights granted hereunder. 

18.3      Severability   .
          Both
          Parties hereby expressly acknowledge and agree that it is the intention
          of
          neither party to violate any public policy, statutory or common law, rules,
          regulations, treaty or decision of any government agency or executive body
          thereof of any country or community or association of countries and specifically
          agree that if any word, sentence, paragraph, clause or combination thereof
          in
          this Agreement is found by a court or executive body with judicial powers
          having
          jurisdiction over this Agreement or any of the parties hereto in a final
          unappealed order, to be in violation of any such provisions in any country
          or
          community or association of countries, then in such event such words, sentences,
          paragraphs, clauses or combination shall be inoperative in such country
          or
          community or association of countries and the remainder of this Agreement
          shall
          remain binding upon the parties hereto. 

18.4      Notices      .     
          Any
          notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing
          and shall
          be deemed to have been properly given if delivered in person, or by an
          internationally recognized overnight courier, or by facsimile (and promptly
          confirmed by overnight courier), to the addresses given below or such other
          addresses as may be designated in writing by the parties from time to time
          during the term of this Agreement. Any notice sent by overnight courier
          as
          aforesaid shall be deemed to have been given two (2) working days after
          sending. 

37 

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

18.5      Assignment      .     
          This
          Agreement may not be assigned or otherwise transferred by either Party
          without
          the written consent of the other Party;    provided   ,
             however   ,
          that
          either Party may, without such consent, assign this Agreement (i) in connection
          with the transfer or sale of all or substantially all of its business related
          to
          this Agreement; or (ii) in the event of the merger or consolidation of
          such
          Party with another corporation; or (iii) to an Affiliate. Any permitted
          assignee
          shall assume all obligations of its assignor under this Agreement. 

18.6      Amendment   .
          The
          parties hereto may amend, modify or alter any of the provisions of this
          Agreement, but only by a written instrument duly executed by both parties
          hereto. 

18.7      Entire
          Agreement   .
          This
          Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties with respect
          to the
          subject matter hereof and supersedes and replaces all previous negotiations,
          understandings and representations whether written or oral including, but
          not
          limited to, the Heads of Agreement dated [*], the Agreement dated [*],
          and the
          Addendum dated [*] between the Parties and the Confidentiality Agreement
          described at Section 15.6. This Agreement shall not be modified, altered
          or
          amended except by a written document signed on behalf of and delivered
          by both
          Parties.  

18.8      Waiver      .     
          The
          failure of a party to enforce, at any time or for any period, any of the
          provisions hereof shall not be construed as a waiver of such provisions
          or of
          the rights of such party thereafter to enforce each such provision. 

18.9      No
          Implied Licenses   .
          Except
          as expressly and specifically provided under this Agreement, the parties
          agree
          that neither party is granted any implied rights to or under any of the
          other
          party s current or future patents, trade secrets, copyrights, moral rights,
          trade or service marks, trade dress, or any other intellectual property
          rights. 

38 

18.10      Injunctions   .
          The
          parties agree that any breach or threatened breach by one party of the
          confidentiality provisions contained in this Agreement may cause substantial
          harm to the other party that cannot be remedied by monetary damages, and
          therefore each party agrees that either party shall have the right to apply
          for
          equitable remedies, without bond, including injunctions and repossession
          of
          Confidential Information, to abate actual or threatened breaches of this
          Agreement. 

18.11      Independent
          Contractors   .
          The
          parties agree that the relationship of Cellegy and Licensee established
          by this
          Agreement is that of independent licensee and licensor. Furthermore, the
          parties
          agree that this Agreement does not, is not intended to, and shall not be
          construed to, establish a partnership or joint venture, and nor shall this
          Agreement create or establish an employment, agency or any other relationship.
          Except as may be specifically provided herein, neither party shall have
          any
          right, power or authority, nor shall they represent themselves as having
          any
          authority to assume, create or incur any expense, liability or obligation,
          express or implied, on behalf of the other party, or otherwise act as an
          agent
          for the other party for any purpose. 

18.12      No
          Third Party Beneficiaries   .
          All
          rights, benefits and remedies under this Agreement are solely intended
          for the
          benefit of Cellegy and Licensee, and no Third Party shall have any rights
          whatsoever to (i) enforce any obligation contained in this Agreement (ii)
          seek a
          benefit or remedy for any breach of this Agreement, or (iii) take any other
          action relating to this Agreement under any legal theory, including but
          not
          limited to, actions in contract, tort (including but not limited to negligence,
          gross negligence and strict liability), or as a defense, setoff or counterclaim
          to any action or claim brought or made by the parties. 

18.13      Governing
          Law   .
          This
          Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws
          of the
          State of Pennsylvania, exclusive of its choice-of-law rules. 

18.14      Resolution
          of Disputes   .
          All
          disputes arising out of or related to the terms and conditions of this
          Agreement, or the breach thereof, will be settled as follows. 

(a)     If
          a
          dispute arises under this Agreement, a representative of each party must,
          following whatever investigation each considers appropriate, promptly discuss
          the dispute.  

(b)     If
          the
          dispute is not resolved as a result of the discussions in paragraph (a),
          either
          party may   give
          written notice to the other party requesting the commencement of negotiations
          in
          good faith. The notice shall: 

(i)     set
          out
          the issues in dispute and any other relevant circumstances; and  

(ii)     designate
          a senior representative with the appropriate authority to negotiate the
          dispute. 

39 

(c)     Within
          ten (10) business days of receipt of the notice referred to in paragraph
          (b) the
          recipient shall notify the other party of a senior representative with
          similar
          authority   to
          negotiate the dispute  
          and
          specify a reasonable time and place to meet within the following fourteen
          business days. 

(d)     The
          representatives must meet in accordance with the notice referred to in
          paragraph (b) and, using all reasonable endeavors, commence negotiations in
          good faith to resolve the dispute. 

(e)     If
          the
          dispute is not resolved within thirty (30) days of notification under
          paragraph (b), then the dispute shall be settled by binding arbitration in
          Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in accordance with the then existing rules
          of
          International Chamber of Commerce. In any arbitration pursuant to this
          Section
          the award shall be rendered by a single arbiter if the Parties agree to
          one or a
          majority of three (3) arbiters, one (1) of whom shall be appointed by each
          Party
          and the third of whom shall be appointed by mutual agreement of the two
          Party-appointed arbitrators. Either Party may initiate such an arbitration
          by
          giving written notice to the other Party of such arbitration, specifying,
          in
          reasonable detail, the dispute to be resolved thereby. The determination
          of the
          arbitrators with respect to any dispute will be conclusive and binding
          on the
          Parties, and the arbitrators will have right to award attorneys  fees and costs,
          including but not limited to the costs of the arbitration, to the prevailing
          Party. Judgment upon the award rendered in any arbitration may be entered
          in any
          court of competent jurisdiction in any country. The Parties agree to the
          exclusive jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located
          in
          Philadelphia, Pennsylvania for purposes of any action arising out of or
          relating
          to this Agreement that is not subject to mandatory arbitration, and agree
          that
          service of process in any such action may be made in the manner provided
          for in
          this Agreement for the delivery of notices.  

(f)     Neither
          Party shall be prevented from applying to a court at any stage for urgent
          injunctive or other relief. 

18.15      Headings   .
          The
          Article and section headings contained in this Agreement are for reference
          purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation
          of
          this Agreement. 

18.16      Counterparts   .
          This
          Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which
          shall be
          deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the
          same
          document. 

40 

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

18.17      Late
          Payment   .
          If
          Licensee fails to pay to Cellegy any amount when due, Licensee agrees to
          pay
          interest on the overdue balance at the rate of the LIBOR rate (as quoted
          in the
          London edition of the Financial Times and in effect from time to time)
          plus [*]
          or, if such rate exceeds the maximum rate permitted by law, the maximum
          rate
          permitted by law. Payments received from Licensee when any overdue balance
          exists shall be applied first against accrued interest. Licensee shall
          pay all
          collection charges and expenses, and including, but not limited to, attorneys 
fees, which are incurred by Cellegy in connection with Cellegy s collection of
          any amounts under or relating to this Agreement, or otherwise in connection
          with
          the enforcement of this Agreement.  

18.18      ProStrakan
          Group plc Limited Guarantee   .
          ProStrakan Group plc, of which Licensee is a wholly-owned subsidiary, hereby
          guarantees the performance of Licensee under this Agreement to the extent,
          and
          pursuant to the terms of, the Guarantee attached hereto as    Exhibit
          F   . 

[Remainder
          of this page intentionally left blank]  

41 

IN
          WITNESS HEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the Agreement
          Date. 

STRAKAN
                    INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 

                     By:             

Its: ____________________________ 

                    ProStrakan
                    Group plc, only as to 

                    Section
                    18.18 and the Guarantee 

By_____________________________ 

                    Its:
                    _____________________________ 

CELLEGY
                    PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 

                     By:             

Its: _____________________________ 

42 

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

EXHIBIT
          A  

            LICENSED
          PRODUCT   

[*]
          gram
          metered dosing canister. 

          [*]
          gram
          metered dosing canister. 

A 

EXHIBIT
          B  

            COUNTRIES
          IN THE TERRITORY   

TERRITORIES 

1.
                    Europe 

1.
                    Europe (continued) 

Andorra 

Slovak
                    Republic 

Albania 

Slovenia 

Austria 

Spain 

Belgium 

Sweden 

Bosnia-Herzegovina 

Switzerland 

Bulgaria 

Turkey 

Croatia 

United
                    Kingdom 

Cyprus 

Republic
                    of Yugoslavia 

Czech
                    Republic 

Denmark 

Estonia 

Finland 

France 

Germany 

Gibraltar 

Greece 

Hungary 

Ireland 

Italy 

Latvia 

Liechtenstein

Lithuania 

Luxembourg 

Republic
                    of Macedonia 

Malta 

Monaco 

Netherlands 

Norway

Poland

Portugal 

Romania 

B 

[*]
          designates portions of this document that have been omitted pursuant to
          a
          request for confidential treatment filed separately with the
          Commission  

EXHIBIT
          C  

           MINIMUM
          SALES REQUIREMENTS  

[*] 

C 

EXHIBIT
          D  

            PATENTS
          RIGHTS   

Cellegy
          Patents      

WO
          99/24041 - Entitled  Penetration enhancing and irritation reducing systems,
          including improvements thereto, relating to the Licensed Product in the
          Field
          and Territory. 

D 

EXHIBIT
          E  

            CELLEGY
          MARKS   

Name  

Status  

Country  

Registration
                    Date  

Renewal  

E-1 

Name  

Status  

Country  

Registration
                      Date  

Renewal  

E-2 

Name  

Status  

Country  

Registration
                      Date  

Renewal  

E-3 

Name  

Status  

Country  

Registration
                    Date  

Renewal  

Tostran 

Registered
                    as EU community mark 

Spain 

2/4/2004 

5/102012 

Tostran 

Registered
                    as EU community mark 

Sweden 

2/4/2004 

5/102012 

Tostran 

Registered
                    as EU community mark 

United
                    Kingdom 

2/4/2004 

5/102012 

Tostran 

Registered 

Switzerland 

9/3/2002 

5/3/2012 

Tostran 

No
                    application pending 

Andorra 

- 

- 

Tostran 

No
                    application pending 

Albania 

- 

- 

Tostran 

No
                    application pending 

Bosnia-Herzegovina 

- 

- 

Tostran 

No
                    application pending 

Bulgaria 

- 

- 

Tostran 

No
                    application pending 

Croatia 

- 

- 

Tostran 

No
                    application pending 

Gibraltar 

- 

- 

Tostran 

No
                    application pending 

Republic
                    of Yugoslavia 

- 

- 

Tostran 

No
                    application pending 

Republic
                    of Macedonia 

- 

- 

Tostran 

No
                    application pending 

Monaco 

- 

- 

E-4 

Name  

Status  

Country  

Registration
                      Date  

Renewal  

E-5 

Name  

Status  

Country  

Registration
                    Date  

Renewal  

Fortigel 

No
                    application pending 

Croatia 

- 

- 

Fortigel 

No
                    application pending 

Gibraltar 

- 

- 

Fortigel 

No
                    application pending 

Republic
                    of Yugoslavia 

- 

- 

Fortigel 

No
                    application pending 

Republic
                    of Macedonia 

- 

- 

Fortigel 

No
                    application pending 

Monaco 

- 

- 

E-6 

EXHIBIT
          F  

           STRAKAN
          GROUP LIMITED GUARANTEE  

ProStrakan
          Group plc (     Group     )
          hereby
          unconditionally guarantees and undertakes to Cellegy that Licensee will
          duly and
          punctually observe and perform all the undertakings, covenants and obligations
          of Licensee under this Agreement (including the payment of any damages
          becoming
          due to Cellegy as a result of any breach by Licensee of such undertakings,
          covenants and obligations) and under any agreements between the Parties
          (or any
          of them) which are expressly supplemental to this Agreement or which this
          Agreement requires to be executed (the      Obligations     )
          to the
          intent that if Licensee shall fail for whatever reason so to observe and
          perform
          any Obligations, Group shall be liable to perform the same in all respects
          as if
          Group was the party principally bound thereby in place of Licensee on demand
          from Cellegy.  

F 

EXHIBIT
          G   

ADVERSE
          EVENT REPORTING  

G 

</EX-10.31>

<EX-21>
 6
 v038451_ex21.htm

EXHIBIT
      21  

SUBSIDIARIES
      OF CELLEGY PHARMACEUTCALS, INC.  

Cellegy
      Australia Pty Ltd 

      Australia 

Cellegy
      Canada Inc. 

      Canada 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 7
 v038451_ex23-1.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      23.1  

CONSENT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We
      hereby
      consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on
      Form S-8 (Nos. 33-96384, 333-06065, 333-32301, 333-60343, 333-42840,
      333-91588, 333-114229 and 333-121838), Form S-3 (Nos. 333-11457, 333-36057,
      333-46087, 333-86193, 333-49466, 333-64864, 333-102485, 333-118841, 333-125787,
      333-121836) and Form S-2 (No. 333-114247) of Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
      of our report dated March 30, 2006 relating to the consolidated financial
      statements, which appears in this Form 10-K. 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers
              LLP  

Philadelphia,
                Pennsylvania 

March 30  ,
                2006 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 v038451_ex31-1.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      31.1  

       CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE  

SARBANES-OXLEY
      ACT OF 2002  

I,
      Richard C. Williams, certify that: 

1.                                        
        I
      have
      reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; 

2.
                                           
        Based
      on
      my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.
                                           
        Based
      on
      my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
      periods presented in this report; 

4.
                                           
        The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and (15d-15(e)) for the registrant and we have: 

a)      
        designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)     
        evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and 

c)      
        disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.
                                           
        The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
      directors: 

a)      
        all
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial data; and 

b)     
        any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting. 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

By: 

/s/
                Richard C. Williams 

Chairman
                and Interim Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 v038451_ex31-2.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      31.2  

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE  

SARBANES-OXLEY
      ACT OF 2002  

I,
      Robert
      J. Caso, certify that: 

1.              
        I
      have
      reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; 

2.
                                           
        Based
      on
      my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.
                                           
        Based
      on
      my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
      results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the
      periods presented in this report; 

4.
                                           
        The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and (15d-15(e)) for the registrant and we have: 

a)      
        designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)     
        evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and 

c)      
        disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
      materially effected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.
                                           
        The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
      directors: 

a)      
        all
      significant deficiencies and material weakness in the design or operation of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial data; and 

b)     
        any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting. 

Date: 

March
                30, 2006 

By: 

/s/
                Robert J. Caso 

Vice
                President, Finance and Chief Financial
                Officer 

1 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 v038451_ex32-1.htm

Unassociated Document

EXHIBIT
      32.1     

CERTIFICATION
      OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER     

PURSUANT
      TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT     

The
      undersigned, Richard C. Williams, the Interim Chief Executive Officer of Cellegy
      Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (the  Company ), pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as
      adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby
      certifies that, to the best of my knowledge:  

(1) the
                Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                2005 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
                Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) the
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
                Company.  

By:    
              /s/ RICHARD
              C. WILLIAMS   

Richard
                C. Williams  

Interim
                Chief Executive Officer  

Dated: March 30,
      2006  

This
      certification is being furnished to the SEC with this Report on Form 10-K
      pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not,
      except to the extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for
      purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 v038451_ex32-2.htm

Unassociated Document

EXHIBIT
      32.2     

CERTIFICATION
      OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER     

PURSUANT
      TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT     

The
      undersigned, Robert J. Caso, as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial
      Officer of Cellegy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (the  Company ), pursuant to
      18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby certifies that, to the best of my knowledge:

(1) the
                Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                2005 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
                Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) the
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
                Company.  

By:    
              /s/ ROBERT
              J.
              CASO   

Robert
                J. Caso  

Vice
                President and Chief Financial
                Officer  

Dated: March 30,
      2006  

This
      certification is being furnished to the SEC with this Report on Form 10-K
      pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not,
      except to the extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for
      purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

</EX-32.2>

