<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20060331_10-K_edgar_data_922814_0000950134-06-006395_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>988449</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>307849</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>416763</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>46</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-06-006395.hdr.sgml : 20060331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060331150446
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-06-006395
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VIRBAC CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000922814
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				431648680
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-24312
		FILM NUMBER:		06728241

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3200 MEACHAM BLVD
		CITY:			FORT WORTH
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			76137
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3142987330

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3200 MEACHAM BLVD
		CITY:			MARYLAND HEIGHTS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63043

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AGRI NUTRITION GROUP LTD
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19960301

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 KeeZboHcK8J/YzkffjqbyF8/NXZxFlGspJj72FysSZMqgk1LvljgZlCmm4O6U94B
 IFyoTVw00Hoe/utoaUlfLA==

 0000950134-06-006395.txt : 20060331

10-K
 1
 d34572e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

(Mark One) 

For the fiscal year ended: December 31, 2005

OR 

For the transition period from                       to                      

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 0-24312 

VIRBAC CORPORATION 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  (817) 831-5030 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
NONE

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Title of each Class: 

Name of each exchange on which registered:  

COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $0.01 
PER SHARE

NONE 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Act. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes     No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer or a non-accelerated filer. (See definition of  accelerated filer  and  large accelerated
filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.) (Check One)

 Large accelerated filer     Accelerated filer     Non-accelerated filer    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). Yes     No    

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity of the registrant held
by non-affiliates, computed by reference to the closing sales price of such stock, as of June 30,
2005 was $27,200,000. (For purposes of determination of the aggregate market value, Interlab
S.A.S. and the directors and executive officers of Virbac Corporation have been deemed
affiliates.)

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s common stock, par value $0.01, as of
February 28, 2006, was 22,548,540 shares.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of Registrant s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission in connection with the  Annual Meeting .

Table of Contents   

Virbac Corporation

Table of Contents 

Form 10-K  

Item Number  

Page  

Part 1  

1. 

Business  

1 

1A. 

Risk Factors  

10 

1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments  

16 

2. 

Properties  

16 

3. 

Legal Proceedings  

17 

4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

19 

Part II  

5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of  

Equity Securities  

21 

6. 

Selected Financial Data   

23 

7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

24 

7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

40 

8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

41 

9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and  Financial Disclosure  

41 

9A. 

Controls and Procedures  

41 

9B. 

Other Information  

43 

Part III  

10. 

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  

44 

11. 

Executive Compensation  

44 

12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Related Shareholder Matters  

44 

13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  

44 

14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

44 

Part IV  

15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

45 

Signatures  

52 

Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement    
     Third Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note dated April 9, 2004    
     Third Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note dated April 29, 2004    
     Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP    
     Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 302    
     Certification Pursuant to Section 906    

i

Table of Contents   

FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current
expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking
statements are often characterized by the terms  may,   will,   anticipate,   estimate,   expect, 
 project,   intend,   plan,   believe,   target,  and other words and terms of similar meaning and
do not reflect historical facts. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are
subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. In addition,
factors that could affect the business and financial results of Virbac Corporation (the  Company 
or  Virbac ) include, but are not limited to, the following: the results of research and
development activities; decisions by regulatory authorities, including the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration ( FDA ) and the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ), regarding whether and when
to approve Virbac s drug applications as well as their decisions regarding labeling and other
matters that could affect the commercial potential of Virbac s products and services; trade buying
patterns; the ability to meet generic and branded competition after the loss of patent protection
for Virbac s products; changes or trends in veterinary medicine that affect the rate of use of the
Company s products by veterinarians; legal defense costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs, and
the risk of an adverse decision or settlement related to product liability, patent protection,
governmental investigations, and other legal proceedings; the Company s ability to protect its
patents and other intellectual property both domestically and internationally; governmental laws
and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including tax obligations; any changes
in business, political, and economic conditions due to the threat of future terrorist activity in
the U.S. and other parts of the world, and related U.S. military action overseas; and uncertainties
regarding the Company s ability to comply with financial and other covenants required under its
credit agreement. Virbac does not intend to update these forward-looking statements to reflect
actual future events.

PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Background 

The business now operated by Virbac and its wholly-owned subsidiaries was initiated in 1993,
when Agri-Nutrition Group Limited, a Delaware corporation ( Agri-Nutrition ) acquired the animal
health industries business of Purina Mills, Inc. In July 1994, Agri-Nutrition completed an initial
public offering of its common stock.

On October 16, 1998, Agri-Nutrition entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, as amended,
(the  Merger Agreement ) with Virbac S.A., a French corporation engaged in the veterinary
pharmaceutical manufacturing business ( VBSA ), Virbac, Inc., a Delaware corporation
(  Virbac Inc. ), and Interlab S.A.S., a French corporation (  Interlab ),
pursuant to which Virbac Inc. was merged with and into Agri-Nutrition (the  Merger ) with
Agri-Nutrition being the surviving corporation. At the effective date of the Merger, March 5,
1999, Virbac Inc. was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Interlab and Interlab was a wholly-owned
subsidiary of VBSA.

Upon consummation of the Merger, Agri-Nutrition changed its name to  Virbac
Corporation.  Pursuant to the Merger, the issued and outstanding shares of Virbac Inc. common
stock, then held by Interlab, automatically converted into the right to receive 12,580,918 shares
of the Company s Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share (the  Common Stock ), or approximately 58%
of the outstanding Common Stock after the effective date of the Merger. Moreover, the Merger
Agreement required the Company to complete a tender offer to repurchase up to 1,000,000 shares of
the Common Stock at a price of $3.00 per share within 60 days after the effective date of the
Merger. The Company repurchased all 1,000,000 shares and, as a result, VBSA indirectly owned
approximately 60% of the outstanding

1

Table of Contents   

Common Stock after the Merger; therefore, Virbac Inc. was considered the acquirer of
Agri-Nutrition in a purchase business combination for financial reporting purposes.

The Merger Agreement further provides that in order to maintain Interlab s proportionate
ownership interest in the Company until the expiration, termination, or exercise of all options to
purchase the Common Stock outstanding as of the date of the Merger, the Company will
contemporaneously, with the issuance of the Common Stock upon the exercise of pre-Merger options to
purchase the Common Stock, issue to Interlab a number of additional shares of the Common Stock
equal to the product of (a) the aggregate number of shares of the Common Stock issued upon the
exercise of such Company options and (b) 1.5. Consequently, VBSA, through Interlab, indirectly owns
approximately 60% of the outstanding Common Stock.

Business Overview 

Virbac, based in Fort Worth, Texas, develops, manufactures, markets, distributes and sells a
variety of pet and companion animal health products, focusing on dermatological, parasiticidal,
dental and certain pharmaceutical products as well as products intended for use by livestock. The
Company has three reportable segments: the Veterinary segment, which provides animal health
products to veterinary clinics throughout North America; the Consumer Brand segment, which sells
over-the-counter products for companion animal health to national accounts, distributors and
wholesalers; and the Contract Manufacturing segment which offers a broad range of services and
specialized expertise in the manufacture of highly regulated animal health products. The Contract
Manufacturing segment operates as PM Resources, Inc., a Missouri corporation ( PMR ), which is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. PMR is based in a 176,000 square-foot facility in
Bridgeton, Missouri, which is registered with the FDA and the EPA. PMR formulates products under
private-label and provides third party contract manufacturing services of products for use in the
animal health and specialty chemical industries, including products for over 20 international,
national and regional veterinary pharmaceutical companies. Detailed operating results for the
Company s segments may be found in Note 16.  Segment and Related Information  of the  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Virbac has developed its product portfolio through acquisitions, licensing arrangements and
internal development activities. The Company distributes and sells its products throughout the
United States and Canada and, through its distribution agreement with VBSA, in other foreign
markets. Virbac has the exclusive North American manufacturing and distribution rights to any new
or existing products developed by VBSA that are intended for companion animals and livestock, for
which it pays royalties to VBSA ranging from 2.0% to 6.0% of its sales of such products. Royalties
of $0.3 million, $0.3 million and $0.1 million were paid to VBSA in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. Additionally, some of the Company s products are manufactured and distributed under
licenses granted by VBSA. See Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  for
further information.

Products 

The Company s products are used to promote the health and hygiene of companion animals  
primarily, dogs, cats, fish and certain livestock. The principal products manufactured by the
Company include:

Dermatological products for dogs and cats, including anti-itch, anti-microbial, and
anti-inflammatory lotions and shampoos; 

Oral hygiene products for dogs and cats, including toothpaste and toothbrushes,
sprays, oral rinses, enzymatic rawhide chews and chlorhexidine rawhide chews; 

Flea and tick products, including collars, shampoos and dip concentrates; 

Canine heartworm preventives; 

Ear cleaners; 

2

Table of Contents   

Endocrinology treatments, including canine thyroid replacements; 

Humane euthanasia drugs, for veterinary purposes only; 

Aquarium water conditioners, medications and test strips; 

Pest control products, including rodenticides; 

Nutritional supplements to promote healthy coat and skin; 

Gastrointestinal products for dogs and cats, including hairball remedies; 

Specialty chemicals; and 

Equine anti-parasitics. 

Sales and Marketing Strategy 

The Company s product marketing strategy varies for each of its three segments. Following is
a discussion of each segment.

Veterinary Segment 

The Company manufactures a significant amount of its pharmaceutical products that are sold in
the veterinary channel and also purchases finished product directly from outside third party
manufacturers. This segment s marketing and sales promotions target veterinarians through education
and sampling to encourage veterinarians to prescribe and sell more of the Company s products. The
Company s principal veterinary line labels are ALLERDERM  dermatological products, C.E.T.  dental
products,  IVERHART   PLUS canine heartworm preventive, SOLOXINE  endocrinology products and
PREVENTIC  tick collars. This segment generated 57%, 51% and 45% of the Company s revenues in
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Members of a veterinary distributor consortium, named Vedco, Inc. ( Vedco ), represent the
Company s largest group of customers and accounted for approximately 21%, 17% and 20% of revenues
in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Before formation of the Vedco consortium, individual members
of the Vedco group purchased products directly from Virbac, rather than through the consortium. In
the event the Vedco consortium disbands or discontinues purchasing Virbac products, there could be
a material adverse effect on the operating results of Virbac s Veterinary segment. However, the
Company believes that individual members of the consortium would have the ability to purchase
directly from the Company, which would substantially mitigate the loss of the purchases by Vedco.

Consumer Brand Segment 

The Consumer Brand segment offers more than 300 products for sale to pet specialty retail
stores, superstores, mass merchandisers and farm and fleet stores. Under the Company s principal
consumer brand labels of Petrodex , Mardel , Petromalt , Francodex   , Zema , Healthy
Companion  and Pet Relief , the Company sells health care products for dogs, cats, horses, tropical
fish, birds and various other animals. Some of these products are manufactured by Virbac, while
others are contract manufactured by third parties or purchased. The promotion of the Company s
Consumer Brand segment is principally focused on obtaining shelf space in store locations by
creating consumer brand awareness and demand. Additionally, this segment distributes animal health
and pest control products under the Earth City Resources label to retailers and the farm market, as
well as rural, and urban feed retailers. The Consumer Brand segment also distributes private label
products, principally pest control products, whereby the Company produces the product and then
labels it with the customer s label for distribution in the retail channel. The Consumer Brand
segment generated 27%, 28% and 34% of the Company s revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The Company also markets and sells its Veterinary and Consumer Brand segment products in
Canada and markets outside the U.S. The Company sells its products directly to its Canadian
customers.

3

Table of Contents   

Canadian sales are invoiced in U.S. dollars and totaled $1.8 million, $1.2 million and $1.1
million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Virbac s Veterinary and Consumer Brand segment
products are generally sold in markets outside the U.S. and Canada directly to customers through a
distribution agreement with VBSA and its affiliates. These export sales are invoiced in U.S.
dollars and amounted to $2.4 million, $1.7 million and $2.2 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. See Item 1.  Business,  Distribution   below for a further discussion.

Contract Manufacturing Segment 

The Contract Manufacturing segment s services include a broad range of formulation,
development, manufacturing, packaging and distribution activities related to products that are
generally highly regulated pharmaceuticals and pesticides for significant animal health and
specialty chemical customers. The Company holds over 140 FDA and EPA product registrations and
site approvals that are required to perform these services. The Contract Manufacturing segment
generated 16%, 21% and 21% of the Company s revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

For further information on the seasonality of the Company s products, segment performance and
financial information on the Company s segments, refer to Item 7.  Managements Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Note 16.  Segment and Related
Information  of the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , respectively.

Distribution 

The Company utilizes different distribution channels for each of its three segments. In the
Veterinary segment, which has its own sales force, the products are generally shipped from the
Company to distributors who sell principally to veterinarians. For the Consumer Brand segment,
which also has its own sales force, the Company sells primarily to large multi-chain retail stores
or large pet-store distributors who then sell to smaller retail pet and pet supply stores. The
Company s Contract Manufacturing segment either ships the product directly to the customer or to a
destination chosen by the customer and in some cases the customer will arrange for their own
delivery.

As previously mentioned, Virbac has entered into an agreement with VBSA for the distribution
of its products in markets outside of the United and Canada. The terms of the distribution
agreement provide that VBSA and its affiliates are the sole and exclusive distributors of the
Company s current and future range of specified pet health care products for all channels of trade
worldwide other than the United States and Canada. The Company agrees to manufacture the products
and VBSA agrees to use its best efforts to promote, sell and distribute the Company s products
internationally. The Company can distribute directly to certain customers at the election of VBSA.
On December 2, 2004, the distribution agreement automatically renewed for a second 5-year term.
The current terms of the distribution agreement provide that VBSA s purchase price of products be
fixed at 12.6% over the Company s current cost. Virbac recorded $1.2 million of product sales to
VBSA and its affiliates under the distribution agreement during each of 2005, 2004 and 2003.

Research and Development 

The Company s research and development activities focus on developing highly regulated
proprietary and generic products mainly for the pet and companion animal market. The Company
develops formulas adapted to the needs of companion animals, either from off-patent compounds or
proprietary compounds licensed from others. The Company s research and development activities also
include developing less regulated cosmetic products, mainly dermatological and oral hygiene
products. The Company maintains a regulatory department that is responsible for maintaining the
required product dossiers with the various regulatory agencies. The Company believes it is a
leader in pet dermatology and

4

Table of Contents   

oral hygiene product development and believes it holds a market leadership position in these
product categories.

The Company frequently collaborates with third parties to perform certain research studies and
developmental activities. The Company has collaborated, and continues to collaborate with not only
other companies, but also with veterinary specialists, universities, and other private practice
veterinarians to evaluate products in development and to validate the utility of the Company s
existing products in the marketplace. The costs of these services are expensed as incurred and are
included in the Company s research and development expenses.

In developing new or improved products, the Company considers a variety of factors, including
(i) existing or potential marketing opportunities for such products; (ii) the capability of the
Company to manufacture the products; (iii) whether such new or improved products complement its
existing products; (iv) the possibility of leveraging such products with the development of
additional products, and (v) the risks and potential for successfully achieving marketing approval
by the relevant regulatory agency. The Company spent approximately $3.3 million, $3.3 million and
$4.9 million, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, on research and development. Virbac also
conducts research on VBSA products that have the potential to be distributed in North America.

VBSA maintains research and development facilities, which are dedicated exclusively to
researching animal health products. These facilities have developed more than 1,000 products for
the prevention and treatment of animal health diseases. In many instances, the Company s
manufacturing and distribution rights to such products have served to reduce the time to market and
cost of regulator approval in North America. See Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions  for further information.

In addition to developing its own products and obtaining the North American manufacturing and
distribution rights to products developed by VBSA, the Company has significantly expanded its
product portfolio through purchases of North American and worldwide manufacturing and distribution
rights to certain products developed by third parties.

Registrations, Trademarks and Patents 

The Company considers its intellectual property protection to be material to its ability to
successfully commercialize its life-sciences innovations and to protect the capital investments the
Company makes in those innovations. The Company owns or licenses a number of patents relating to
products, product uses, formulations and manufacturing processes. See Item 1A.  Risk Factors .

The Company holds patents for technologies such as pet toothbrushes, pet shampoos and the
systemic and topical control of parasites. The remaining lives of the various patents range from
five to 14 years. The Company also has exclusive licenses to use other patents including enzyme
generation formulae for use in animal toothpaste and rawhide chews; insect growth regulators;
VBSA s Spherulite  technology, which provides for the prolonged delivery of active ingredients
contained in various products; and others. The license agreements held by the Company have
remaining lives ranging from five to 14 years.

The Company holds numerous trademarks relating primarily to its Veterinary and Consumer Brand
segment products, including PetRelief , Petrodex , Petromalt , Mardel , Zema , ALLERDERM ,
SOLOXINE , Euthasol ,  IVERHART   PLUS, and C.E.T. . Virbac also has permission to use trademarks
held by VBSA including Healthy Companion , Francodex  and PREVENTIC .

5

Table of Contents   

Procurement of Raw Materials and Finished Goods 

The active ingredients in the Company s products are generally purchased from large suppliers.
The Company generally purchases materials on an as-needed basis, as it is usually unnecessary for
the Company to maintain large inventories of such materials. The Company purchases certain raw
materials from multiple suppliers; some materials, however, are proprietary, and may only be
acquired from one source. The Company also purchases certain raw materials, the availability of
which are subject to EPA, FDA, or other regulatory approvals. Some of the Company s contract
manufacturing customers provide the Company with the raw materials used in the production of the
customer s products. Additionally, the Company also purchases certain finished products from
outside manufacturers under supply agreements. The Company considers its relationships with its
suppliers to be good.

Competition 

The Company s competitors generally fall into four categories: (i) pet care product producers
and suppliers; (ii) animal health product distributors; (iii) manufacturers, formulators and
blenders of animal health products; and (iv) specialty chemical and pest control manufacturers.

The Company faces intense competition in that many of its competitors are larger and have
significantly more financial resources than the Company. Moreover, regulatory surveillance and
enforcement are accelerating, which is likely to result in only a few competitors that individually
possess significantly greater resources than others in the market.

Each of the Company s three segments competes in its respective market based on differing
criteria. Many of the Company s products in the Veterinary segment are highly regulated. While
there is a large group of competitors in the veterinary market, the Company believes that others
are deterred from entering the market due to regulatory requirements. The Veterinary segment
competes based on high quality products with premium value and pricing. For some product lines,
such as dermatology and dentistry, the Company holds a significant portion of the market share.
For other product lines within the veterinary market, such as heartworm medications and
nutraceuticals (a food or naturally occurring food supplement thought to have a beneficial effect
on pet health), the Company holds only a small portion of the market share.

The Consumer Brand segment competes based on the market s expectation of consumer brand
awareness, price and quality. The Company does not hold a significant portion of the market in the
Consumer Brand segment but has strength in this segment s product offerings. The Consumer Brand
segment has strong relations with pet supply stores nationwide. Competitors in this segment range
from large national companies to small regional companies.

Competition in the Contract Manufacturing segment is based on price and service. Due to
capital demands and governmental requirements for certain products manufactured by the Company,
there are few significant competitors in this market. Price, along with the ability of the Company
to quickly adapt its facilities in order to provide service, is a competitive advantage.

Regulatory and Environmental Matters 

The Company s operations subject it to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating
to health and safety and environmental affairs. These laws and regulations are administered by the
EPA, the FDA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department of Transportation,
and various state and local regulatory agencies. Governmental authorities, and, in some cases,
third parties, have the power to enforce compliance with environmental and health and safety laws
and regulations, and violators may be subject to sanctions, including civil and criminal action,
fines or penalties, orders and injunctions. Although the Company has been notified by state
agencies from time to time of violations of

6

Table of Contents   

these laws or regulations, the Company believes it has taken action to respond appropriately
in each instance. The Company does not believe any of these violations has had or will have a
material adverse effect on the Company. While the Company believes that the procedures currently
in effect and operations at its facilities are consistent with industry standards, and that these
are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and
regulations, failure to comply with such laws and regulations or significant changes in such laws
and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

Product Regulation 

The federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of veterinary
pharmaceutical manufacturers, including authority to withdraw product approvals, commence actions
to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved products or products that are not in compliance and to
halt any manufacturing operations that do not comply with applicable laws and regulations. Any
such restrictions or prohibitions on sales, or withdrawal of approval of products marketed by
Virbac, could have a material adverse effect on Virbac s business, financial condition, and results
of operations.

While Virbac believes that all of its current pharmaceuticals are in compliance with
applicable FDA regulations and has received required government approvals for the manufacture and
sale of such pharmaceuticals, approvals are subject to revocation by the applicable government
agencies. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products are, in many
circumstances, subject to additional approvals, which may be subject to a lengthy application
process. Virbac s manufacturing facilities are subject to continual inspection by regulatory
agencies, and manufacturing operations could be interrupted or halted in either such facility as a
result of such inspections. If previously received regulatory approvals were subsequently revoked,
any such revocations could have a material adverse effect on Virbac s business, financial condition
and results of operations.

The product development and approval process, within applicable regulatory frameworks, may
take a number of years to successfully complete and involves the expenditure of substantial
resources. Additional government regulation may be established that could prevent or delay
regulatory approval of any one or more of Virbac s products. Delays or rejections in obtaining
regulatory approvals would adversely affect Virbac s ability to commercialize any product Virbac
develops and would limit Virbac s ability to receive product revenues or royalties. If regulatory
approval of a product is granted, the approval may include limitations on the indicated uses for
which the product may be marketed.

The Company has numerous EPA and FDA product registrations. Its EPA product registrations
permit it to sell pesticide and rodenticide products, as well as ectoparasiticide products for the
treatment of fleas and ticks on dogs and cats. While EPA registrations do not expire, registrants
are required to periodically re-register certain products with the EPA. The Company s Bridgeton,
Missouri facility is qualified as an EPA-registered manufacturing site, which permits the Company
to manufacture products not only under its own EPA product registrations, but also under the
registrations of other companies.

The Company s FDA-approved new animal drug applications ( NADAs ) permit it to sell medicated
treatments, anthelmintics, feed additives and other animal drug products. NADAs do not expire, but
are subject to review and modification or withdrawal by the FDA based upon the related drugs 
performance in the market. The Company also has FDA manufacturing site approvals enabling the
Company to manufacture animal drugs covered by NADAs held by other companies.

Environmental Matters 

The Company s operations are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations
administered by the EPA, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
the

7

Table of Contents   

Federal Clean Air Act, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, and the Toxic
Substances Control Act, as well as various state and municipal environmental laws and regulations.

Although the Company believes it is in material compliance with applicable environmental laws,
regulations, and government approvals, and has a policy governing compliance, there can be no
assurance that the Company will not be exposed to significant environmental liability or will not
be required to incur significant costs of compliance. The Company also could be held liable for
property damage or personal injury caused by the release, spill, transport, disposal, or other
discharge of hazardous substances or materials, and could be held responsible for cleanup of any
affected sites. In addition, the Company could be liable for fines, penalties, orders or
injunctions, both civil and criminal.

The Company has environmental compliance programs, which address environmental and other
regulatory compliance issues. Future developments, such as changes to environmental laws,
regulations, governmental approval requirements, or enforcement policies, could increase the
Company s environmental compliance costs. While the Company is not aware of any pending
legislation or proposed regulations that, if enacted, would have a material adverse effect on the
Company, there can be no assurance that future legislation or regulation will not have such effect.

PMR is the subject of a Consent Order dated November 22, 1999, issued by the Circuit Court of
St. Louis County, Missouri ( Consent Order ), requiring investigation and remediation of historical
contamination at its Bridgeton, Missouri property. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $635,000
in investigative and remediation costs has been incurred for which the Company has been or will be
reimbursed pursuant to a third party indemnity obligation. The Company estimates that future
remediation costs are approximately $279,000 through December 31, 2007, which is when remediation
is expected to be complete. The Company expects substantially all of the remaining remediation
costs will be reimbursed under the terms of the indemnity agreement, which is a formal and legally
enforceable agreement, except for $22,000, which represents the Company s estimated remaining
portion of the liability and is included in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December
31, 2005. Management believes that PMR is currently in substantial compliance with all applicable
local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations and resolution of the environmental
issues contained in the Consent Order will have no material effect on the Company s financial
position, cash flows, or results of operations. See Item 1A.  Risk Factors .

Employees 

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately 269 full-time employees, of which,
approximately 152 were engaged in manufacturing activities, 76 in sales and marketing activities,
and 41 employed in research and development or administrative functions. Fifty-eight of the
full-time employees located at the Bridgeton, Missouri facility, are covered by collective
bargaining agreements with international unions that were renewed in the fourth quarter of 2004
with no material changes. Each of the collective bargaining agreements expires in the fourth
quarter of 2008. The Company also employs workers on a temporary basis, the number of which
fluctuates during the year because demand for many of the Company s products is seasonal. The
Company considers its employee and union relations to be good.

Restatement of Financial Statements and Other Developments 

Restatement of Financial Statements 

The Company filed restated audited financial statements for each of the years 2001 and 2002,
unaudited interim financial data for all quarters in 2001 and 2002, and unaudited interim financial
data for the quarters ended March 31, 2003 and June 30, 2003 (the  Restatement ), and its audited
financial results for 2003 in its Annual Report on Form 10-K on April 29, 2005 ( 2003 Form 10-K ).
In addition,

8

Table of Contents   

the filing also included certain restated unaudited financial data for the years 1998 through
2000. The Company has not amended its Annual Reports on Form 10-K or Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q for the quarterly periods affected by the Restatement. The information that had been
previously filed or otherwise reported for these periods is superseded by the 2003 Form 10-K and
the financial statements and related financial information contained in such previously filed
reports should no longer be relied upon. See 2003 Form 10-K for a further discussion and Item 1A.
 Risk Factors .

Other Developments 

On December 13, 2005, the Company announced that VBSA had made a proposal to acquire the 39.7%
outstanding Common Stock not already owned by VBSA or its subsidiaries for $4.15 per share in cash,
representing an aggregate all-cash purchase price of approximately $37.0 million (the  Tender Offer
Proposal ).

VBSA stated in the Tender Offer Proposal that it expects that the Board of Directors of Virbac
will form a special committee of independent directors to respond to VBSA s Tender Offer Proposal
on behalf of Virbac s public shareholders and to make an informed recommendation to the public
shareholders with respect to the offer. VBSA also stated that it is prepared to negotiate the
terms of a definitive offer to the shareholders of Virbac on customary terms and conditions for
transactions of this type. The Tender Offer Proposal stated that the definitive offer would be
subject to the condition that a sufficient majority of the Common Stock is tendered such that the
tendered shares, together with the shares VBSA currently owns, total at least 90% (ninety percent)
of the Common Stock. VBSA has informed Virbac that it has sufficient financing available for the
transaction under its existing bank credit facilities and that the offer would not be subject to a
financing condition.

On March 14, 2006, the Company announced the formation of a special committee of independent
directors (the  Special Committee ) to review, evaluate and negotiate VBSA s Tender Offer Proposal.
The Special Committee has engaged outside financial advisors to assist in this process. The Special
Committee is further authorized to negotiate the terms of VBSA s proposal and to make a
recommendation to the Company s Board of Directors and/or its public stockholders as to whether to
accept VBSA s proposal or any other proposal made by VBSA and/or its affiliates to acquire the
Common Stock held by public stockholders. See Item 1A.  Risk Factors .

Available Information 

Shareholders may obtain, free of charge, copies of the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K,
its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, its Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those
reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
furnished to the Commission by a request in writing to Jean M. Nelson, Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer, Virbac Corporation, 3200 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX 76137. Copies
of all of these documents are also made available free of charge on the Company s website located
at  www.virbaccorp.com . The documents that Virbac files with or furnishes to the Securities and
Exchange Commission ( SEC ) are also available at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information may be obtained regarding operation of the
Public Reference Room by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. The documents that Virbac files with or furnishes
to the SEC are also available on the SEC s website at
 www.sec.gov . The information on the
Company s website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

9

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. 

Risks Relating to the Restatement and Other Matters 

Virbac may be materially adversely affected by the result of ongoing litigation.  

Virbac is a defendant in certain significant litigation, described in more detail in Item 3,
 Legal Proceedings.  If any of these proceedings is decided against the Company, it may be subject
to substantial damages, other penalties or non-monetary remedies. These penalties and other effects
of litigation, including significant legal fees and expenses, could have a material adverse effect
on the Company s financial condition and results of operations in the event that any final
settlement amounts exceed the limits of the Company s insurance policies or the carriers decline to
fund such final settlements or judgments.

Virbac may be required to seek additional funding which may not be available on commercially
reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, the Company may be required to dedicate a substantial
portion of its cash and/or cash flow from operations to payments of such judgments, fines,
penalties, or settlements resulting in a reduction of cash availability and/or cash flow to fund
working capital, capital expenditures, new acquisitions and investments, research and development
efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction. In addition, the negative
outcome of litigation may materially adversely impair the Company s ability to satisfy its payment
obligations under outstanding indebtedness

Virbac is subject to an ongoing SEC investigation.  

Virbac has reached a settlement agreement in principle with the staff of the SEC with regard
to the SEC s investigation of the Company. However, there can be no assurance that the settlement
agreement will be approved by the SEC. Any material adverse fines, penalties or settlements arising
from the pending SEC investigation that deviate from the currently proposed settlement could
require additional funding that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.
Such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business, results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings,  SEC Investigation . 

Virbac may be materially adversely affected if it does not complete the implementation of its
plan to improve the Company s internal controls.  

Virbac s management and independent registered public accounting firm have identified certain
material weaknesses in its disclosure and internal controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005.
As of December 31, 2005, the Company had not completed the implementation of its plan to improve
internal controls and remediate the identified material weaknesses as described in Item 9A.  Controls and
Procedures  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management has adopted a number of measures to
strengthen the Company s internal controls over financial reporting and address the material
weaknesses that have been identified, however, Virbac may be unable to fully address such material
weaknesses in a timely manner. The Company expects to conclude that certain of the material
weaknesses identified by its management and independent registered public accounting firm as of
December 31, 2005 will continue to exist as of December 31, 2006. If these material weaknesses are
not remedied or otherwise mitigated, they could result in material misstatement of the Company s
financial statements in the future, which would result in additional restatements and would
materially impact its ability to timely file financial statements in the future.

10

Table of Contents   

Risks Related to Virbac s Business 

Factors beyond the Company s control may cause its revenue to fluctuate, and since many of
Virbac s expenses are fixed in the short term, this fluctuation could cause greater than expected
losses, cash flow and liquidity shortfalls and the Company s stock price to decline.  

Management believes that the Company s future operating results could fluctuate on a quarterly
basis due to a variety of factors which are generally beyond Virbac s control, including:

supply of products from third party suppliers or termination of such relationships; 

the introduction of new products by the Company s competitors or by the Company; 

competition and pricing pressures from competitive products; 

Virbac s distribution strategy and its ability to maintain relationships with distributors; 

large customers failing to purchase products at historical levels; 

fundamental shifts in market demand; 

economic uncertainties; 

significant increases in interest rates; 

manufacturing delays; 

shipment problems; 

regulatory and other delays in product development; 

product recalls; 

changes in Virbac s reputation and/or market acceptance of its current or new products; 

changes in the mix of products sold; 

the results of certain strategic initiatives, including acquisitions, divestitures,
and restructurings; and 

significant costs related to the compliance with newly issued SEC rules and
corporate governance initiatives. 

Virbac has high operating expenses for personnel, new product development and marketing. Many
of these expenses are fixed in the short term. If any of the factors listed above cause the
Company s revenues to decline, its operating results could be substantially harmed.

Virbac may be materially adversely affected by its dependency on third-party suppliers.  

To be successful, Virbac must contract for the supply of, or manufacture itself, current and
future products of appropriate quantity, quality and cost. Such products must be available on a
timely basis and be in compliance with any regulatory requirements. Failure to do so could
substantially harm Virbac s business.

Virbac currently relies on third party suppliers to manufacture those products that it does
not manufacture. The Company often purchases products from its suppliers under agreements that are
of limited duration or can be terminated on an annual basis. Management believes that the Company
has agreements in place to ensure supply of its major product offerings through at least the next
12 months and believes that the Company is in full compliance with such agreements. There can be no
assurance, however, that Virbac s suppliers will be able to meet their obligations under these
agreements or that Virbac will be able to compel them to do so.

The Company s future revenues depend on the research, development, commercialization and
market acceptance of new products, any of which can be slower than expected.  

Virbac s business depends on its ability to develop a broad range of new products addressing
companion animal healthcare. The acceptance of Virbac s products by veterinarians is critical to
its

11

Table of Contents   

success. The Company believes that its revenue growth and profitability substantially depends upon
its ability to improve market acceptance of current products, complete development of new and
innovative products, and successfully introduce and commercialize such products.

The research, development and regulatory approval process for many of Virbac s products are
extensive and may take substantially longer than anticipated. New products the Company is
developing for the veterinary marketplace may not perform up to expectations. Because Virbac has
limited resources to devote to product development and commercialization, any delay in the research
or development of one product or reallocation of resources to product development efforts that
prove unsuccessful may delay or jeopardize the development of the Company s other product
candidates. If Virbac fails to successfully develop new products and bring them to market in a
timely manner, its ability to generate additional revenue will decrease.

Virbac may not be able to successfully compete or be profitable in the business in which it
operates.  

Virbac competes with independent animal health companies and major pharmaceutical companies
that have animal health divisions. Virbac also competes with independent, third party distributors,
including distributors who sell products under their own private labels. Virbac s competitors may
have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources and larger,
better-established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than it does. Virbac s
competitors may offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than the Company. The
Company s competitors may develop or market technologies or products that are more effective or
commercially attractive than its current or future products or that would render its technologies
and products obsolete. Further, additional competition could come from new entrants to the animal
healthcare market. Moreover, Virbac may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or
marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully.

Virbac may be materially adversely affected by costly intellectual property disputes.  

The Company s ability to compete effectively will depend in part on its ability to develop and
maintain proprietary aspects of its technology and either to operate without infringing the
proprietary rights of others or to obtain rights to technology owned by third parties. Virbac has
United States and foreign-issued patents. Patents that Virbac has received may be challenged,
invalidated or circumvented in the future or the rights created by those patents may not provide a
competitive advantage. Virbac also relies on trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing
invention to develop and maintain its competitive position. Others may independently develop
substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to the
Company s trade secrets.

Virbac may become subject to patent infringement claims and litigation in the United States or
other countries or interference proceedings conducted in the United States Patent and Trademark
Office (the  USPTO ), to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of
intellectual property suits, USPTO interference proceedings, and related legal and administrative
proceedings are costly, time-consuming and distracting. The Company may also need to pursue
litigation to enforce any patents issued to its collaborative partners, to protect trade secrets or
know-how owned by it or its collaborative partners, or to determine the enforceability, scope and
validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation or interference proceeding will result
in substantial expense to the Company and significant diversion of the efforts of its technical and
management personnel. Any adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings could
subject the Company to significant liabilities to third parties. Further, as a result of litigation
or other proceedings, Virbac may be required to seek licenses from third parties that may not be
available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.

12

Table of Contents   

Virbac may be materially adversely affected by the cost of obtaining and maintaining costly
regulatory approvals that are required to market its products.  

Many of the products Virbac develops and markets are subject to extensive regulation by the
FDA, the EPA and foreign regulatory authorities. These regulations govern, among other things, the
development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, pre-market approval, advertising,
promotion, sale, transport, disposal and distribution of the Company s products. Satisfaction of
these requirements can take several years and the time needed to satisfy them may vary
substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product.

The effect of government regulation may be to delay or to prevent marketing of the Company s
products for a considerable period of time and to impose costly procedures upon its activities.
Regulatory approval of the Company s products may also impose limitations on the indicated or
intended uses for which its products may be marketed.

Among the conditions for certain regulatory approvals is the requirement that the Company s
facilities and/or the facilities of its third party manufacturers conform to current good
manufacturing practices. The Company s manufacturing facilities and those of its third party
manufacturers must also conform to certain other manufacturing regulations, which include
requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as maintenance of records
and proper documentation. If any regulatory authority determines that Virbac s manufacturing
facilities or those of its third party manufacturers do not conform to appropriate manufacturing
requirements, the Company or the manufacturers of its products may be subject to sanctions,
including manufacturing suspensions, product recalls or seizures, withdrawals of previously
approved marketing applications, civil fines and criminal prosecutions.

The Company may be materially adversely affected if the FDA and the EPA decide to require FDA
or EPA registered products to be produced in plants that produce only FDA or EPA registered
products.  

Virbac manufactures both FDA and EPA registered products in its Bridgeton, Missouri facility.
The Bridgeton facility has been developed over a number of years to comply with guidelines and
procedures set out by both the FDA and the EPA. In the past, the facility has not encountered any
regulatory issues resulting from manufacturing both types of products simultaneously. However, the
industry standard is to produce FDA or EPA registered products in separate facilities. In the
future, either the FDA or the EPA could decide that it will no longer allow products under its
supervision to be produced in a plant that also produces products registered with another agency.
If this were to occur, the Company would have to separate its facility or find another facility so
that the FDA or EPA registered products could be produced separately. There can be no assurance
that the Company could find an alternative facility or that it would have the funds needed in order
to make such facility compliant with either EPA or FDA requirements.

Virbac may be materially adversely affected by product returns and product liability.  

The testing, manufacturing and marketing of the Company s current products as well as those
currently under development entail an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated
adverse publicity. Following the introduction of a product, adverse side effects may be discovered.
Adverse publicity regarding such effects could affect sales of the Company s other products for an
indeterminate time period. To date, the Company s has not experienced any material product
liability claims, but any claim arising in the future could substantially harm its business.
Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of the Company s insurance coverage or may
be excluded from coverage under the terms of its policies.

13

Table of Contents   

Virbac may incur significant costs relating to the removal of hazardous materials and waste
associated with its products and development programs.  

The Company s products and development programs involve the controlled use, management,
manufacture, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous and bio hazardous materials, including
chemicals. Although Virbac believes that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such
materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable local, state and federal regulations,
the Company cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials.
In the event of such an accident, Virbac could be held liable for any fines, penalties, remediation
costs or other damages that result, including damages for personal injury or property damage. The
Company s liability for the release of hazardous materials could exceed its resources, which could
lead to a shutdown of its operations. In addition, Virbac may incur substantial costs to comply
with environmental regulations if it chooses to expand its manufacturing capacity or if regulations
were to require it to make significant operational changes.

Virbac may be materially adversely affected by changes in veterinary medical practices.  

The market for Virbac s veterinary products could be negatively impacted by the introduction
or broad market acceptance of newly developed or alternative preventatives or other products for
the diseases and conditions for which it sells products. Such a negative impact in the market for
its product could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations.

Virbac may be materially adversely affected by an economic downturn or economic uncertainty.  

The pet and companion animal product industry is sensitive to national and regional economic
conditions, particularly those that influence consumer confidence, spending and buying habits.
Economic downturns or uncertainty may not only adversely affect overall demand and intensify price
competition, but also cause consumers to  trade down  by purchasing lower priced, and often lower
margin, items. These consumer responses, coupled with the impact of general economic factors such
as prevailing interest rates, price inflation or deflation, employment trends in Virbac s markets,
and labor and energy costs, can also have a significant impact on the Company s operating results.
Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause these factors to change with a greater degree
of frequency and magnitude.

Risks Related to Virbac s Relationship with VBSA 

Virbac may be materially adversely affected by a decrease in financial support that it
receives from VBSA.  

Virbac receives significant support from its indirect majority shareholder, VBSA, including
product development, research expenditures that benefit the Company, borrowings, and worldwide
distribution of the Company s products. If VBSA were to reduce the amount of support that it
provides to the Company, the Company s results of operations could potentially be adversely
affected. A reduction in research and product development assistance provided by VBSA could
decrease the number of future products the Company expects to introduce and increase the time it
takes to introduce certain products into the market, thus decreasing the Company s expected future
revenue. Finally, if VBSA discontinues its lending to the Company, the Company would be forced to
find alternative financing that might not be available on favorable terms, if at all.

14

Table of Contents   

Risks Related to the Ownership of Common Stock and the Securities Markets 

VBSA controls any vote of shareholders of the Company.  

VBSA owns, indirectly, approximately 60% of the outstanding Common Stock. As a result, VBSA
has the power to elect all of the Company s directors, appoint new management and approve or reject
any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including adopting amendments to the Company s
charter and approving mergers and sales of substantially all of the Company s assets. Minority
holders of the Common Stock will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote so long
as VBSA owns at least a majority of the outstanding Common Stock. In addition, VBSA s ownership of
the Common Stock will make an unsolicited acquisition of the Company more difficult and discourage
certain types of transactions involving a change of control of the Company, including transactions
in which the holders of the Common Stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over
then current market prices. VBSA may make decisions that differ from the interests of other
holders of the Common Stock.

Based on VBSA s beneficial ownership of a majority of the outstanding Common Stock, the
Company is a  controlled company,  as defined in Rule 4350(c)(5) of the listing standards of the
NASDAQ National Market, on which shares of the Common Stock were quoted prior to being delisted.
Accordingly, the Company is exempt from certain requirements of NASDAQ s corporate governance
listing standards, including the requirement to maintain a majority of independent directors on its
Board of Directors and the requirements regarding the determination of compensation of executive
officers and the nomination of directors by independent directors. As such, the procedures for
approving significant corporate decisions for the Company are not subject to the same corporate
governance requirements as non-controlled companies with stock quoted on the NASDAQ National
Market.

VBSA Tender Offer Proposal  

On December 13, 2005, the Company announced that VBSA had made a proposal to acquire the 39.7%
outstanding Common Stock not already owned by VBSA or its subsidiaries for $4.15 per share in cash,
representing an aggregate all-cash purchase price of approximately $37.0 million.

VBSA stated in the Tender Offer Proposal that it expects that the Board of Directors of Virbac
will form a special committee of independent directors to respond to VBSA s Tender Offer Proposal
on behalf of Virbac s public shareholders and to make an informed recommendation to the public
shareholders with respect to the offer. On March 14, 2006, the Company announced the formation of
the Special Committee to review, evaluate and negotiate VBSA s Tender Offer Proposal. The Special
Committee has engaged outside financial advisors to assist in this process. The Special Committee
is further authorized to negotiate the terms of VBSA s proposal and to make a recommendation to the
Company s Board of Directors and/or its public stockholders as to whether to accept VBSA s proposal
or any other proposal made by VBSA and/or its affiliates to acquire the Common Stock held by public
stockholders.

There is no assurance that the Tender Offer Proposal will result in a definitive offer and
there is no assurance that should a definitive proposal be made by VBSA, that it will be affected.
Should VBSA initiate a definitive offer, there is no assurance that it will be at the price
stipulated in the Company s December 13, 2005 announcement.

The Company will be required to incur additional costs in connection with its evaluation of
the Tender Offer Proposal. These costs will include additional legal, financial advisory and
Special Committee fees. Additionally, management s time will be diverted from regular business
activities to assisting with activities associated with the Tender Offer Proposal. The Company has
been subjected to

15

Table of Contents   

litigation as a result of the Tender Offer Proposal as more fully described in Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings  and may be subject to further litigation.

Virbac may continue to be materially adversely affected by the lack of a public trading market
for its Common Stock.  

The Common Stock was delisted from the NASDAQ National Market as of the opening of business on
January 23, 2004, because the Company was not able to file its periodic reports with the SEC in a
timely manner. The Common Stock has continued to be quoted on the Pink Sheets on an unsolicited
trading basis. As a result, there is currently no regular public trading market for the Common
Stock. The Company does not know if a market for the Common Stock will be re-established or that,
if re-established, a market will be sustained. Investors should realize that they may be unable to
sell the Common Stock if they purchase it. Accordingly, investors must be able to bear the
financial risk of losing their entire investment in the Common Stock.

Virbac filed a re-listing application with NASDAQ and continues to work with NASDAQ listing
officials on the potential re-listing of the Common Stock with NASDAQ. If the Company is not able
to re-list the Common Stock on one of NASDAQ s stock exchanges or an alternate stock exchange, the
lack of a regular public trading market for the Common Stock could have an ongoing material adverse
effect on the liquidity and price of the Common Stock.

The public float of Virbac s Common Stock is limited since over 60% of the Common Stock
outstanding is held by VBSA.  

Even if the Company s Common Stock were relisted on one of NASDAQ s stock exchanges or on an
alternate stock exchange, it would have a relatively small public float since over 60% of its
Common Stock outstanding is held by VBSA. Accordingly, the Company cannot predict the extent to
which investors  interest in the Common Stock will provide an active and liquid trading market. Due
to Virbac s limited public float, Virbac may be vulnerable to investors taking a  short position 
in the Common Stock, which would likely have a depressing effect on the price of the Common Stock
and add increased volatility to the Company s trading market. The volatility of the market for the
Common Stock could have a material adverse effect on Virbac s business, results of operations and
financial condition.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. 

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. 

The Company owns the Fort Worth, Texas and the Bridgeton, Missouri manufacturing facilities
where substantially all of the Company s products are produced. The Fort Worth facility is a
127,000 square foot manufacturing, warehousing, distribution and office facility. Most of the
Company s non-EPA regulated products are manufactured at the Fort Worth facility. The Bridgeton
facility, at which the Contract Manufacturing segment s operations are conducted and most EPA and
FDA regulated products are produced, is an EPA and FDA registered facility and consists of a
176,000 square foot manufacturing and warehousing building located on 37 acres. Both the Fort
Worth and Bridgeton facilities, along with the land on which they are located, have been pledged as
collateral under Virbac s Credit Agreement with First Bank dated as of September 7, 1999, as
amended (the  Credit Agreement ).

Management believes that the Company s facilities are adequate and suitable for the Company s
current operations.

16

Table of Contents   

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. 

From time to time, Virbac may be involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its
operations. As of December 31, 2005, Virbac was not a party to any legal proceedings, other than
those discussed below, that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material
adverse effect on the Company s business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item
1A.  Risk Factors . The legal proceedings involving Virbac are described below.

Securities Class Action Litigation Settlement 

On December 15, 2003, Martine Williams, a Virbac stockholder, filed a putative securities
class action lawsuit (the  Securities Class Action ) in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Texas, Fort Worth Division, (the  Court ) against Virbac, VBSA, Thomas L. Bell
(the Company s former President, Chief Executive Officer, and member of the Company s Board of
Directors), Joseph A. Rougraff (the Company s former Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and
Secretary), and Pascal Boissy (the former Chairman of the Board of Directors) (Bell, Rougraff, and
Boissy collectively, the  Individual Defendants ). The complaint asserted claims against Virbac
and the Individual Defendants based on securities fraud under Section 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act ( Rule
10b-5 ), and claims against VBSA and the Individual Defendants based on  control person  liability
under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. On May 19, 2004, the  Williams v. Virbac et al.  lawsuit
was consolidated with a separate lawsuit filed by John Otley, which contained virtually identical
allegations to those claimed by Martine Williams, and the Court appointed lead counsel for the
plaintiffs. On September 10, 2004, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended class action
complaint (the  Amended Complaint ).

On September 15, 2005, the parties entered into a settlement agreement under which Virbac
caused to be paid $3,125,000 into a settlement fund (the  Settlement Fund ) to be distributed to
eligible persons who purchased or otherwise acquired Virbac Common Stock from May 3, 2001 to
November 12, 2003, inclusive (the  Class ). On October 4, 2005, the Court issued an Order
certifying the Class for settlement purposes and granting preliminary approval of the settlement as
set forth in the Settlement Agreement and the proposed plan of allocation. On December 1, 2005,
the Court entered an Order and Final Judgment, which, among other things, found that notice had
been provided to the Class, granted final approval of the settlement as set forth in the Settlement
Agreement and the proposed plan of allocation, awarded attorneys  fees of 30% of the Settlement
Fund and $63,719.10 in expenses to be paid from the Settlement Fund, and dismissed the Securities
Class Action with prejudice as to Virbac and the Individual Defendants. The Court retained
jurisdiction over the Securities Class Action for purposes of administering the settlement.

Separately, the Company has entered into an agreement with its insurance carriers (the
 Insurers ), which provides that the Insurers will fund in full the settlement amount of $3,125,000
set forth in the Settlement Agreement.

Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit 

On February 19, 2004, Richard Hreniuk and Peter Lindell, both Virbac shareholders, filed
separate, similar lawsuits in the Court, derivatively on behalf of the Company against Thomas L.
Bell, Pascal Boissy, Eric Mar e, Pierre A. Pag s, Alec L. Poitevint, II, and Jean No l Willk, all
current or former members of Virbac s Board of Directors, and Joseph A. Rougraff, a former officer
of the Company (collectively, the  Derivative Individual Defendants ) and Virbac, as a nominal defendant.
These two lawsuits have been consolidated (the  Shareholder Derivative Action ), and on December 3,
2004, the Court appointed lead counsel for the plaintiffs. On March 1, 2005, the plaintiffs filed
a consolidated amended shareholder derivative complaint (the  Amended Derivative Complaint ),
asserting claims against: defendants Bell and Rougraff for improper financial reporting under the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of

17

Table of Contents   

2002
( SOX  all Derivative Individual Defendants for gross mismanagement, breach of fiduciary duty,
waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment; and defendant Boissy for breach of fiduciary
duties due to alleged insider selling and misappropriation of information. Virbac is named as a
nominal defendant in the Amended Derivative Complaint.

On July 25, 2005, the Court s previously entered stay expired without the parties reaching a
settlement. The nominal defendant Virbac and the Derivative Individual Defendants filed motions to dismiss
the Amended Derivative Complaint on August 15, 2005. The plaintiffs  opposition brief was filed on
September 29, 2005, and defendants  reply briefs were filed on October 24, 2005.

On November 7, 2005, the parties reached a settlement in principle with respect to plaintiffs 
substantive claims and filed a notice advising the Court of the settlement in principle and
requesting that the Court hold in abeyance any rulings on the pending motions to dismiss. The
settlement in principle was subject to the execution of a written settlement agreement and court
approval. After further negotiations and an additional mediation session, the parties were unable
to agree on the definitive terms of the settlement. On December 8, 2005, the Court was notified
that a definitive settlement could not be reached and was requested
to reinstate the Derivative Individual Defendants 
motions to dismiss. On December 15, 2005, the Court issued an
order reinstating the defendants  motions to dismiss.

On December 20, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a Motion for Leave to File a Second Amended
Complaint (the  Second Amended Derivative Complaint ). The plaintiffs  proposed Second Amended
Derivative Complaint includes the derivative claims described above and seeks to add a cause of
action on behalf of the plaintiffs and a putative class of Virbac shareholders against Virbac s
current board of directors (including Richard W. Pickert and Michel Garaudet, who were not named
defendants in the Amended Derivative Complaint) and VBSA for breach of fiduciary duties relating to
VBSA s proposal to acquire Virbac s remaining outstanding shares for $4.15 per share. The proposed
Second Amended Derivative Complaint seeks various forms of relief, including preliminarily and
permanently enjoining the proposed sale of Virbac shares to VBSA unless and until the Company
adopts and implements a procedure to obtain the highest possible price for Virbac shareholders,
including the formation of an independent special committee to evaluate the proposal, money
damages, including rescissory damages to the extent that the sale has taken place, and the awarding
of the plaintiffs  attorneys  fees and costs.

On January 12, 2006, the Court granted the plaintiffs  Motion for Leave to File a Second
Amended Complaint. On March 20, 2006, in light of the plaintiffs  filing of the Second Amended
Derivative Complaint, the Court denied the defendants previously filed motions to dismiss as moot.
However, these motions to dismiss can be refiled as to the Second Amended Derivative Complaint. On
March 20, 2006, the Court also entered a scheduling order (the  Scheduling Order ) under which the
Court set forth various deadlines, including a deadline for the completion of discovery by
September 29, 2006. In the Scheduling Order, the Court noted that if the parties believe that the
case should not proceed at this time in light of the possibility of a tender offer, it would
entertain a motion for stay and administrative closure of the action, or similar motion.

While the Company intends to vigorously defend itself, the Company cannot predict the final
outcome of the Shareholder Derivative Action at this time. An unfavorable outcome could have a
material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition and liquidity in the event that final
settlement amounts and/or judgment exceeds the limits of the Company s insurance policies or the
Insurers decline to fund such final settlement/judgment. To date, the Company s Insurers have
provided coverage for the submitted expenses incurred in defending the Shareholder Derivative
Action as a claim under the relevant policies.

18

Table of Contents   

SEC Investigation 

On January 13, 2005, the Company announced it had received a written  Wells Notice  from the
staff of the SEC. The Wells Notice indicated that the staff intended to recommend to the SEC that
it authorize an enforcement action against the Company alleging that the Company violated certain
provisions of the federal securities laws.

In December 2005, the Company and the staff of the SEC s Fort Worth District Office reached a
revised agreement in principal to settle this matter (the  December 2005 Agreement ). The December
2005 Agreement differs from an earlier settlement agreement disclosed in previous filings which
included a civil money penalty and disgorgement of $500,000 and $1, respectively. The December
2005 Agreement includes the following principal terms:

without admitting or denying the SEC s allegations, the Company would agree to a
stipulated judgment enjoining the Company from future violations of various provisions of
the federal securities laws; 

the Company would agree to undertakings requiring the Company to implement annual
training programs and internal certifications for certain personnel concerning accounting,
compliance and regulatory matters; and 

the Company would not be required to pay a civil money penalty or disgorgement. 

The December 2005 Agreement is subject to final approval by the SEC, and no assurance can be
given that this matter will be settled consistent with the proposed terms. The Company continues
to cooperate with the SEC in this matter.

Lawsuit Against Tender Offer Proposal 

On January 18, 2006, Richard Abrons, Myron Cohn and Martin Cohn filed a lawsuit in the
Delaware Court of Chancery in New Castle County (the  Delaware Court ) in their individual
capacities and as a purported class action on behalf of the Company s public shareholders against
Eric Mar e, Pierre A. Pag s, Michel Garaudet, Alec L. Poitevint, II, Jean No l Willk, Richard W.
Pickert and Virbac Corporation, VBSA and Interlab. The lawsuit asserts claims against defendants
VBSA, Interlab, Mar e, Pag s and Garaudet for breach of fiduciary duty of loyalty and unfair
dealing, and defendants Willk, Poitevint, II and Pickert for breach of fiduciary duties of care and
good faith. The plaintiffs seek certification of the purported class, a preliminary and permanent
injunction against the consummation of the Tender Offer Proposal, an order declaring the Tender
Offer Proposal void and rescinding the Tender Offer Proposal, if it is consummated, disgorgement of
any profits or property received by the defendants as a result of their alleged wrongful conduct,
unspecified money damages plus interest thereon against all defendants (jointly and severally),
attorneys  fees and expenses incurred in connection with the lawsuit, and such other and further
relief that the Delaware Court may deem just and proper. The defendants believe that this lawsuit
is without merit and intend to vigorously defend this matter.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. 

The shareholders of the Company voted on three items at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
held on November 22, 2005:

1. 
       
     The election of two Class 2 directors to serve on the Company s Board of
Directors for the remainder of the three-year term that expires in 2007; 

2. 
       
     The election of two Class 3 directors to serve on the Company s Board of
Directors for a three-year term that expires in 2008; and 

3. 
       
     A proposal to ratify and approve the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP as the Company s independent registered public accountants for 2005. 

19

Table of Contents   

The nominees for Class 2 directors were elected based upon the following votes:

The nominees for Class 3 directors were elected based upon the following votes:

Class 1 directors, Pierre A. Pag s and Richard W. Pickert, continue to serve on the Company s
Board of Directors for the remainder of the three-year term that expires in 2006.

The proposal to ratify and approve the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the
Company s independent registered public accountants for 2005 received the following votes:

20

Table of Contents   

PART II 

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES. 

The Common Stock was historically traded on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol
 VBAC.  On November 12, 2003, the Company publicly disclosed that it would not be able to timely
file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 on or before the
November 14, 2003 filing deadline. Based on the Company s disclosure, the NASDAQ National Market
halted trading in the Company s securities effective November 13, 2003, due to Virbac s failure to
comply with the filing requirements for continued listing set forth in Marketplace Rule
4310(c)(14). On January 21, 2004, NASDAQ notified the Company that the Common Stock would be
de-listed from the NASDAQ National Market, effective at the opening of business on January 23,
2004.

The Common Stock is currently traded on the Pink Sheets under the symbol  VBAC  on an
unsolicited trading basis. The market for the Common Stock is subject to significant fluctuations
and only a limited and volatile trading market exists. Shareholders seeking to sell shares of the
Common Stock are not likely to find an active market and therefore may not be able to sell a
significant volume of the Common Stock. See Item 1A.  Risk Factors .

The following table sets forth the quarterly range of high and low closing sales prices per
share for the Common Stock during the periods indicated. The Common Stock was quoted on the Pink
Sheets after the Common Stock was de-listed from the NASDAQ National Market on January 22, 2004.
As a result, the Common Stock prices for 2004 and 2005 are Pink Sheet prices. The Pink Sheet
prices are bid and ask prices which represent prices between broker-dealers and do not include
retail mark-ups and markdowns or any commissions to the broker-dealer, and may not represent actual
transactions.

(1) 
       
     The NASDAQ National Market halted trading in the Company s securities
effective November 13, 2003. 

As of February 28, 2006, the Company had 206 record holders of its Common Stock.

21

Table of Contents   

The Company has never paid any dividends on its Common Stock. It presently intends to retain
its earnings for use in its business and does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the
foreseeable future. Further, under the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Company is prohibited
from paying dividends without the consent of the Company s lenders.

Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans 

The Company has two equity compensation plans, the Virbac Corporation Incentive Stock Plan
(the  Virbac Incentive Plan ) and the PM Agri-Nutrition Group Limited 1994 Incentive Stock Plan
(the  1994 Plan ) (collectively, the  Equity Compensation Plans ). The Equity Compensation Plans
have been approved by the Company s shareholders. The 1994 Plan expired prior to December 31, 2003
and the Virbac Incentive Plan expired in the first quarter of 2005, however, there are stock
options outstanding under the Virbac Incentive Plan that may still be exercised.

The following table sets forth information concerning stock options outstanding under the
Equity Compensation Plans as of December 31, 2005.

Number of Securities  

Remaining Available for  

Weighted Average  
       
      Future Issuance Under  

Number of Securities to  
       
      Exercise Price of  
       
      Virbac Incentive Plan  

be Issued Upon Exercise  
       
      Outstanding  
       
      (Excluding Securities  

of Outstanding Options,  
       
      Options, Warrants  
       
      Reflected in the First  

Plan Category  
       
      Warrants and Rights  
       
      and Rights  
       
      Column)  

Virbac Incentive Plan

496,431 

$ 
     4.02 

N/A 

Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities; Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities 

The Company did not sell any unregistered securities during 2005, the period covered by this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

22

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. 

The following selected financial data have been derived from the Company s consolidated
financial statements and related notes thereto that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, except for the summarized financial information for 2002 and 2001. This data should be
read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto, and Item 7.
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

(1)    Effective October 1, 2000, the Company adopted the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements ( SAB 101 ). Prior to the implementation of SAB
101, the Company recognized revenues when a product was shipped from the Company s distribution
facility, as the risk of loss was transferred to common carriers. Upon implementation of SAB 101,
the Company recognized the revenue upon receipt of the product by its customers. During 2001, the
Company changed its shipping terms with its customers so that ownership transferred to the customer
at the time of shipment and continued this policy through the first quarter of 2004. During this
period, certain customer contract terms were modified such that the risk of loss transferred to the
customer on delivery and revenue was recorded based upon the expected date of receipt. In the
second quarter of 2004, for customer service and policy consistency reasons, the Company elected to
change its stated shipping policy with all its Veterinary and Consumer Brand customers to
FOB-destination. Accordingly, the Company now recognizes revenue upon delivery to these customers.
The net effect of this change was to reduce 2004 revenues by approximately $1.0 million and to
reduce 2004 diluted income per share by $.02.

23

Table of Contents   

(2)  The balance sheet data at December 31, 2003, and statement of operations data for the year
ended December 31, 2003, include the acquisition of Delmarva Laboratories, Inc. ( Delmarva ), which
was effected on August 15, 2003 and the acquisition of the animal healthcare division of King
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( King ), which was effected September 8, 2003.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS. 

References to  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  within this Item 7. refer to the Notes 
to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15. 

Overview 

Virbac, based in Fort Worth, Texas, develops, manufactures, markets, distributes and sells a
variety of pet and companion animal health products, focusing on dermatological, parasiticidal,
dental and certain pharmaceutical products. Its Bridgeton, Missouri facility also formulates
products under private-label and provides third party contract manufacturing services of products
for use in the animal health and specialty chemical industries, including products for over 20
international, national and regional veterinary pharmaceutical companies.

The Company has three reportable segments: the Veterinary segment, which provides animal
health products to veterinary clinics throughout North America; the Consumer Brand segment, which
sells over-the-counter products for companion animal health to national accounts, distributors and
wholesalers; and the Contract Manufacturing segment, which offers a broad range of services and
specialized expertise in the manufacture of highly regulated animal health products. Detailed
operating results for these segments may be found in Note 16.  Segment and Related Information  of
the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The Veterinary segment includes dermatological products, oral hygiene products, flea and tick
products, ear cleaners, nutritional supplements, gastrointestinal products, and certain
pharmaceutical products, including canine heartworm preventatives, endocrinology treatments and
euthanasia drugs. The Company considers the Veterinary segment to be its core business and devotes
most of its management time and other resources to improving the prospects for this segment. A
significant amount of the Company s sales and marketing expenses are in the Veterinary segment and
substantially all of the research and development spending is dedicated to this segment.

Virbac s product development strategy has included in-house development, licensing and the
direct acquisition of products. In the veterinarian market, the Company is widely known for its
quality dermatological and dental products which historically comprised the Company s major product
offerings. In more recent years, Virbac has expanded its product offerings to include more highly
regulated and
pharmaceutical products. Due to its size and relative to other competitors in the
veterinarian market, Virbac s focus has mainly been in niche or underserved markets.

The Company s veterinary products are sold to veterinarians exclusively through distributors.
Virbac provides veterinarians with a suggested retail price for the sale of the product to the
consumer. The Company considers its relationships with both the distributors and veterinarians
to be critical to its success.

The Consumer Brand segment offers more than 300 products for sale in pet specialty retail
stores, superstores, mass merchandisers and farm and fleet stores. Under the Company s principal
consumer brand labels of Petrodex , Mardel , Petromalt , Francodex   , Zema , Healthy
Companion  and Pet Relief , the Company sells health care products for dogs, cats, tropical fish,
birds and various other animals. Some of these products are manufactured by Virbac, while others
are contract manufactured or

24

Table of Contents   

purchased. The promotion of the Company s Consumer Brand segment is
focused on obtaining shelf space in retail locations by creating consumer brand awareness and
demand. The Company sells its Consumer Brand segment products directly to retailers or through
distributors. The Company considers its relationship with major retailers, such as PETCO and
PETsMART, critical to the success of its Consumer Brand segment. Additionally, this segment
distributes animal health and pest control products under the Earth City Resources label to
retailers and the farm market, as well as rural and urban feed retailers. The Consumer Brand
segment also distributes private label products, principally pest control products, whereby the
Company produces the product and then labels it with the customer s label for distribution in the
retail channel.

The Contract Manufacturing segment s services include a broad range of formulation,
development, manufacturing, packaging and distribution activities related to products that are
generally highly regulated pharmaceuticals and pesticides for significant animal health and
specialty chemical customers. The Company holds over 140 FDA and EPA product registrations that
are required to perform these services.

The Contract Manufacturing segment includes a 176,000 square foot production facility in
Bridgeton, Missouri that is licensed with both the EPA and FDA. The Company views this facility as
a strategic asset, which allows it to control the cost of goods that are manufactured for both the
Veterinary and Consumer Brand segments. Over the past several years, the Company s strategy has
been to eliminate low margin contract manufacturing products and transfer the available production
capacity to Veterinary and Consumer Brand products. Virbac expects this transition to continue in
the future as it expands its product portfolio.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ). The preparation of these financial statements
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses and the related disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and
judgments, including those related to customer incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories,
intangible assets, income taxes, contingencies and litigation. Management bases its estimates and
assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be relevant
and reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments
about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. The information used to make such estimates is continually evaluated as the Company s
business and the economic environment changes. Actual results may differ materially from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

In the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the significant accounting policies
used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are described. The Company
believes the
following critical accounting policies reflect its more significant judgments and estimates
used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements.

The Company considers an accounting policy to be critical if it requires difficult, subjective
or complex judgments and is material to the Company s financial position, results of operations and
cash flows. The selection, application and disclosure of critical accounting policies and
estimates have been reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors ( Audit Committee ).

25

Table of Contents   

Revenue Recognition 

The Company recognizes revenue when the following four criteria have been met. These include:
(i) persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has occurred or services have
been rendered; (iii) the seller s price is fixed and determinable; and (iv) collectibility is
reasonably assured.

Effective in the second quarter of 2004, for customer service and policy consistency reasons,
Virbac elected to change its stated shipping policy with its Veterinary and Consumer Brand
customers to FOB-destination. Accordingly, Virbac began to recognize revenues upon delivery to
these customers. Prior to this change in operational policy, Virbac recognized revenues at the time
of shipment to all of its Veterinary distributors. Virbac recognized revenues for its Consumer
Brand customers in accordance with the customer contract terms, which included either FOB-shipping
point or FOB-destination. The net effect of this change was to reduce 2004 revenues by
approximately $1.0 million and to reduce 2004 diluted income per share by $.02.

Virbac recognizes revenue for its Contract Manufacturing customers in accordance with the
customer contract terms. The majority of contracts provide that title and risk of loss pass to the
customer upon delivery to the common carrier and accordingly, revenue is recognized at the time of
shipment. A major Contract Manufacturing customer s contract provides that acceptance occurs upon
written notice or 30 days after receipt in order to allow time for inspection; accordingly, the
Company recognizes revenue upon acceptance. Revenue related to certain Contract Manufacturing customers for which the Company provides
warehousing and/or distribution services, is recognized upon the completion of the manufacturing
process, when the customer accepts all risks of ownership but requests, due to the nature of the
inventory, that the Company hold the inventory for a short period of time and all the other
necessary conditions for revenue recognition have been met.

During 2003, the Company recognized revenue for certain of its product sales, principally the
livestock de-wormer product sales, at the time of cash collection, as collectibility was not
reasonably assured at the time of shipment. Additionally, the Company recognized revenue at the
time of cash collection for all sales transactions during 2003 for which there was a warehousing
arrangement in connection with the delivery. The total revenue from these consignment sale
transactions during 2003 was $2.3 million and in the first quarter of 2004, the Company recognized
revenue of $2.0 million for products that were shipped in 2003, but were paid for in 2004.

Sales Related and Product Replacement Reserves 

The Company s gross product sales are subject to a variety of deductions, primarily
representing expected returns and rebates and discounts granted to its customers. These deductions
represent estimates of the related obligation and, as such, judgment is required when estimating
the impact of these sales deductions on revenues for a reporting period. The sensitivity of the
estimates can vary by program, type of customer and geographic location. Sales return estimates
associated with certain veterinary products with limited expiration periods are at-risk for
material adjustment because the customers may return unsold expired products. Other products with
longer shelf lives have a longer return period, which makes the determination of their ultimate
return rate more difficult.

Additionally, Virbac s distribution agreements provide that the Company can elect to replace
expired product in lieu of issuing a credit. Virbac records the estimated cost for product
replacements as a charge to cost of sales in the period the sale occurs. In 2004, Virbac
discontinued its policy of replacing expired product and currently only issues credits for expired
product.

The Company generally records marketing related sales incentives, such as cooperative
advertising, as a charge to sales and marketing expense at the time the related revenues are
recorded or

26

Table of Contents   

when the incentive is offered, whichever is later. Virbac estimates the cost of sales
incentives based on historical experience with similar incentive programs.

The Company s sales related reserves are recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets, rather than a reduction in accounts receivable, as the sales to which they pertain have
generally been collected and these reserves represent liabilities for future performance.

Inventories and Inventories on Consignment 

Inventories include material, labor and overhead and are stated at the lower of average cost
or market. Inventory is written-down for estimated obsolescence when warranted based on estimates
of future demand and the shelf-life of products. If actual market conditions are less favorable
than those estimated by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventories
on consignment represent finished goods delivered to customers in transactions for which revenue
recognition is not appropriate until payment is received.

Valuation of Other Intangible Assets and Goodwill 

The Company has separately identifiable intangibles which include trademarks, patents, product
license rights and product rights acquired in connection with business acquisitions and acquired
goodwill. With the exception of trademarks and one product right, all of the Company s intangible
assets are definite-lived assets. Intangible asset lives are determined based upon contract terms,
legal rights or Company prepared economic models. For product rights acquired in connection with a
business acquisition, the original valuation of the intangibles is typically performed by a
third-party appraiser and may include the use of estimates that the Company provides concerning
future profitability, cash flows and other judgmental factors.

The Company assesses the recoverability of intangible assets and goodwill upon the occurrence
of an event that might indicate conditions for impairment could exist, or at least annually for
goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets.

Factors the Company considers important that could trigger an impairment review for intangible
assets include the following:

significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future
operating results; 

significant changes in the manner or extent of the Company s use of the acquired
assets or the strategy for the Company s overall business; 

significant negative industry or economic trends; and 

significant decline in the market value of the intangible asset for a sustained
period of time. 

The Company s evaluation of recoverability for definite-lived intangible assets involves
comparing the carrying value of the intangible asset to the expected future undiscounted cash flows
that the asset will generate. If the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable, an
impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying
value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a charge to earnings in the
period the impairment occurs. Additionally, if it is determined that the estimated remaining useful
life of the asset should be decreased, the periodic amortization expense is adjusted based on the
new carrying value and/or life of the asset.

The Company s evaluation of potential impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets and
goodwill involves comparing the carrying value of the asset to the estimated fair value of the
asset.

27

Table of Contents   

The determination of fair value is based on various valuation techniques such as discounted
cash flow and other comparable market analyses. These valuation techniques require the Company to
make estimates and assumptions regarding future profitability, industry factors, planned strategic
initiatives, discount rates and other factors. If actual results or the performance of certain
intangible assets and business units are different from the Company s estimates, the Company may be
exposed to additional impairment charges related to its intangible assets and goodwill. The
aggregate carrying value of the Company s intangible assets and goodwill at December 31, 2005, and
2004 was $22.3 million and $25.3 million, respectively.

Unearned Product License Fees 

The Company has received payments on two products related to a license agreement with Pfizer,
Inc. ( Pfizer ). The payments received for both products have been reflected as unearned product
license fees in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Upon obtaining registrations from the appropriate
governmental agencies permitting it to sell these products, the Company began to recognize revenue
from these product license fees during the fourth quarter of 2002 for the first product and during
the third quarter of 2003 for the second product. Revenue is recognized on a proportionate basis,
based upon estimates of when the sales of each of these products will occur over the periods
covered by the licenses, adjusted for historical experience.

Assessment of Loss Contingencies 

The Company has legal and other contingencies that could result in significant losses upon
their ultimate resolution. Virbac has provided for losses in situations where it has concluded
that it is probable a loss has been or will be incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably
estimable. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining whether a loss is probable
and reasonably estimable due to the uncertainty involved in determining the likelihood of future
events and estimating the financial statement impact of such events. Accordingly, it is possible
that upon the further development or resolution of a contingent matter, a significant charge could
be recorded in a future period related to an existing contingent matter that could have a material
adverse effect on the results of operations, financial position or cash flows of the Company.

Income Taxes 

Virbac accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under the asset and
liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. In addition, deferred tax assets
are also recorded with respect to net operating losses and other tax attribute carryforwards.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in
which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred
tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that
includes the enactment date.

Valuation allowances are established when realization of the benefit of deferred tax assets is
not deemed to be more likely than not. A high degree of judgment is required to determine the
extent that valuation allowances should be provided against deferred tax assets. The Company
assesses the realizability of its deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis and will eliminate the
valuation allowance when warranted based on sustained profitable operating results.

Business Combinations 

Virbac accounts for business combinations using the purchase method of accounting in
accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 141,

28

Table of Contents   

Business Combinations ( SFAS No. 141 ). The results of operations of the acquired business are
included in the consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. The cost to
acquire companies, including transaction costs, has been allocated to the underlying net assets of
the acquired companies based on their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price
over estimated fair values of the tangible and identified intangible assets acquired has been
recorded as goodwill. The application of purchase accounting requires a high degree of judgment
and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions.

Although Virbac generally uses independent third party valuation specialists to determine the
fair values of acquired assets and assumed liabilities for purposes of performing purchase price
allocations, such valuations are based in large part on management estimates and assumptions that
the Company believes to be reasonable in the circumstances, but which are inherently uncertain.
The most significant of these assumptions involves the estimation of future cash flows of acquired
product rights and the discounting of such cash flows to estimate the fair values of such acquired
intangible assets.

Other significant estimates and assumptions are required to value acquired receivables,
inventories, other assets and various assumed liabilities. The fair values reflected in the
Company s purchase price allocations impact depreciation, amortization, impairment charges and
other components of Virbac s ongoing operating results. Accordingly, variations in the estimates
and assumptions from the amounts reflected in the final purchase price allocations would result in
changes to the Company s operating results. In this regard, different classes of assets have
varying impacts on the Company s operating results. For example, goodwill is no longer amortized,
but is instead reviewed at least annually during the fourth quarter for possible impairment.

Results of Operations 

In 2005, the Company s three reportable segments generated $80.8 million in revenues
reflecting a 5% increase from revenues generated in 2004. The Veterinary segment, the Consumer
Brand segment and the Contract Manufacturing segment were responsible for 57%, 27% and 16% of the
2005 Company s revenues, respectively. Gross profit for 2005 increased 14% to approximately $38.5
million. The Company s total operating expenses for 2005 amounted to $31.1 million. The Company s
net income for 2005 increased to approximately $3.9 million from approximately $1.5 million in
2004.

29

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, the Company s revenue, expenses and
net income (loss) as a percentage of revenues:

Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003  

Revenues 

Revenues of the Company increased to $80.8 million in 2005, an increase of 5% from 2004 and
increased to $77.1 million in 2004, an increase of 15% from 2003. The specific revenues by segment
were as follows:

Veterinary revenues increased in 2005, as compared to 2004 due primarily to significant
increases in heartworm preventative, dental and endocrinology product category revenues,
each reporting year over year increases of $2.8 million, $1.9 million and $1.5 million, respectively. The
Company s heartworm preventative product category revenues increased 39% in 2005, as
compared to 2004, principally as a result of the full year effect of the discontinuation of
a major competitive heartworm preventative product in September 2004, due to a voluntary
recall. Dental product category revenues increased 22% in 2005, as compared to 2004, due
principally to increased sales of a significant dental chew product that was introduced in
the first quarter of  

30

Table of Contents   

2004 and continues to gain wide market acceptance. This product has a
patented additive that is well recognized in the market to aid in dental health.
Endocrinology product category revenues increased 32% in 2005, as compared to 2004,
principally as a result of the increased sales of SOLOXINE , a leader in canine thyroid
hormone replacement, which was part of the King product portfolio acquisition that occurred
in late 2003 .  Revenues in 2004 were negatively affected by significant backorders related to
production delays which were corrected in 2005. Thus, 2005 revenues represent a higher level
of annual SOLOXINE   revenues than the Company would generally expect on a recurring basis. 

Veterinary revenues increased in 2004, as compared to 2003, principally as a result of a
full year of revenues from the King and Delmarva product acquisitions, which occurred in
late 2003. In addition to SOLOXINE , the King product portfolio includes Pancrezyme ,
Tumil-K , Uroeze   and Ammonil , which are pancreatic and nutritional supplements. The
Delmarva product portfolio includes Euthasol   and Pentasol , both of which are humane
euthanasia products, in addition to antibiotics Clintabs    and Clinsol   .
Incremental 2004 revenues related to these acquisitions were approximately $6.1 million.
Other product categories which reported an increase in revenues in 2004, as compared to
2003, included heartworm preventative, dermatology and dental products with year over year
increases of approximately 42%, 12% and 19%, respectively. Heartworm preventative product
revenues were positively impacted when a major competitive heartworm preventative, which had
significant market share, was removed from the market in September 2004. The removal could
be temporary, and its return would likely negatively impact Virbac s market share.
Dermatalogy revenues increased year over year due to the launch in late 2003 of two new
products. As previously mentioned, the dental product category reported increased revenues
in 2004, as compared to 2003, due to the launch of a significant dental chew product in the
first quarter of 2004. These increases were offset by a year over year decrease in
pesticide product category revenues as a result of a Company initiated recall in the first
quarter of 2004 of its flea and tick collar due to product efficacy issues. Virbac
purchased this product from VBSA and has been reimbursed in full for the costs of all unused
product and other costs associated with the recall. 

Consumer Brand revenues increased in 2005, as compared to 2004, by $0.3 million or 2%,
primarily as a result of increases in the dental and nutraceutical product category
revenues, offset by decreased private-label product category revenues. Dental product
category revenues increased $0.9 million year over year due to increased revenues in all
dental product categories as a result of the Company placing additional products with pet
supply retailers and the continued growth in revenues from these same retailers.
Nutraceutical product category revenues increased $0.2 million as a result of promotional
programs launched in 2005 for a significant vitamin supplement product offset by decreased
revenues resulting from the rationalization and resultant elimination of several
nutraceutical products. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.8
million in private-label product category revenues as a result of the discontinuance of
unprofitable business with a customer. 

Consumer Brand revenues decreased in 2004, as compared to 2003, by $1.6 million due
principally to lower export revenues and decreased revenues in the dental and nutraceutical
product categories. The dental product category was negatively affected by the
discontinuation of a number of products. The nutraceutical product category was negatively
affected by pricing pressure and the loss of a key customer in July 2004, which launched its
own nutraceutical brand product. 

The Contract Manufacturing segment includes revenues from the Company s contract
manufacturing operations and equine products that are sold exclusively to Pfizer, and in
2004 and prior, livestock de-wormer product revenues. 

31

Table of Contents   

Contract Manufacturing segment revenues decreased $3.4 million in 2005, as compared to 2004,
due principally to a $5.0 million year over year decrease in livestock de-wormer product
revenues offset by a $2.0 million year over year increase in contract manufacturing
operation revenues. The Company has eliminated the livestock de-wormer product from its
product portfolio during 2004 due to extreme competitive pricing and the resultant lack of
product profitability. The $2.0 million increase in contract manufacturing operation
revenues is primarily due to revenue from a new contract with a major pharmaceutical company
for the manufacture of livestock insecticide ear tags. Revenue of $1.4 million under this
contract was first recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005. The contract expires at the end
of 2007 and includes a minimum purchase obligation over the term of the agreement. 

Typically, contract manufacturing operation contracts carry lower margins, thus the
Company s strategy has been to offset lower margin contract manufacturing operations at its
St. Louis facility with the production of higher margin veterinary products as its portfolio
expands. The Company does have available capacity at its St. Louis facility and the Company
will utilize its existing capacity as appropriate contract manufacturing operation
opportunities become available. 

Contract Manufacturing segment revenues increased approximately 15% in 2004, as compared to
2003, principally due to increased revenues from its contract manufacturing operations as a
result of increased demand from existing customers. This increase was offset by decreased
livestock de-wormer product revenues in 2004 as compared to 2003 as a result of the
Company s decision to eliminate this product from its portfolio due to lack of
profitability. Contributing to the increased Contract Manufacturing revenues were equine
product revenues which increased approximately 23% in 2004, as compared to 2003, due to the
product s strong market acceptance and a full year of revenues in 2004 for one of its equine
products. 

The Company currently expects 2006 revenues will be slightly higher, as compared to 2005, due
principally to increased dermatology and dental product category revenues in both its Veterinary
and Consumer Brand segments as well as increased heartworm preventative product revenues. These
increases are expected to be offset by lower revenues in its Contract Manufacturing segment.

Gross Profit 

Gross profit in 2005 increased by $4.6 million or 14% as compared to 2004, and increased 4
points as a percentage of revenue over the same period. Gross profit in 2004 increased by $8.2
million or 32%, as compared to 2003, and increased 6 points as a percentage of revenue over the
same period. The specific gross profit by segment was as follows:

Veterinary segment gross profit dollars increased $3.5 million in 2005, as compared to
2004, due to increased revenues. Veterinary segment gross profit margins decreased to 62%
in 2005 from 64% in 2004. The Veterinary segment s gross profit margins were positively
impacted in 2004 by a significant decline in sales return provisions, especially for the
heartworm preventative product category. This decline was the result of improved management
of inventory in the distribution channel resulting in improved sell-through of product.
This sharp decline in return rates has tapered off in 2005, such that return rate
provisions have been recorded at a more consistent level of revenues during 2005.
Additional reasons for the decline in gross margins are 

32

Table of Contents   

due to an increase in several
marketing promotional programs by the Company in order to expand its market share and
respond to increased competitive pricing. Gross profit margins have also been negatively
affected by reduced margins on the Company s antibiotic product category sales. This
antibiotic product category was acquired from Delmarva in late 2003. The Company s sales
of this product category have been negatively affected by a change in market conditions as
a result of a significant competitor s promotion of a broader spectrum product. The
Company has reduced its pricing in response to the changing market conditions. 

Veterinary segment gross profit increased significantly in 2004, as compared to 2003, due to
several factors. Revenues in 2004 included a full year of product revenues from the King and
Delmarva product acquisitions, which occurred in late 2003. The King and Delmarva product
categories have strong gross profit levels thus elevating this segment s overall margins.
Additionally, 2004 gross profits were positively impacted by  IVERHART    PLUS margins as a
result of lower return rates in 2004, as compared to 2003. 

Consumer Brand segment gross profit dollars increased $0.1 million or 2% in 2005, as
compared to 2004. Gross profit margins were flat year over year. Certain product
categories reported higher gross margins, namely dermatology and dental, while other
products categories reported lower gross margins, namely pesticides. The year over year
variances are a result of market pricing pressure and various marketing and promotional
campaigns launched by the Company. 

Consumer Brand segment gross profit increased in 2004, as compared to 2003, reflecting the
net impact of product mix, product rationalization and improved inventory management that
resulted in lower inventory obsolescence reserve requirements in 2004, as compared to 2003. 

Contract Manufacturing segment gross profit increased $0.9 million or 56% in 2005, as
compared to 2004, due principally to the elimination of livestock de-wormer product sales
that carried low profit margins. In addition, 2004 gross profit margins were negatively
affected by inventory reserve provisions. 

Contract Manufacturing segment gross profit decreased in 2004, as compared to 2003, due
principally to lower livestock de-wormer product revenues and reduced overall gross profit
on this product category. Livestock de-wormer gross profit was negatively affected by
extreme competitive pricing pressures. Contract manufacturing operation gross profit
remained nearly flat year over year. 

The Company currently expects that gross profit margins will remain unchanged in 2006, as
compared to 2005, for all segments.

Operating Expenses 

Total operating expenses increased to $31.1 million in 2005, from $30.3 million in 2004, a 3%
increase. As a percentage of revenues, operating expenses remained flat at 39% in 2005, as
compared to 2004. Total operating expenses increased to $30.3 million in 2004, from $29.9 million
in 2003, a 1%
increase. As a percentage of revenues, operating expenses decreased to 39% in 2004, as
compared to 44% in 2003.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.7 million in 2005, as compared to 2004, primarily
due to increased advertising, marketing related expenditures and their associated costs and
increased sales incentive-based compensation costs as a result of increased sales. Sales and
marketing expenses decreased to $13.4 million in 2004, as compared to $14.4 million in 2003. The
principal reasons for the decrease in 2004 were lower advertising and marketing related
expenditures and a $0.3 million reversal of marketing sales incentive reserves associated with 2003
customer programs.

33

Table of Contents   

Operating expenses in the third quarter of 2005 included a $0.8 million charge related to the
impairment of an intangible asset. The Company determined that the intangible product right for
Clindamycin, one of the product categories obtained in connection with the acquisition of Delmarva,
was impaired. The Company reached this assessment following a comprehensive evaluation of external
market data that confirmed a decrease in the size of the market because of a significant
competitor s effort to shift the market to its broader spectrum product. While the Clindamycin
product category has a revised remaining life of 20 years, management believes the Company s
ability to counter the new market conditions and its current estimated cash flow projections, based
upon reforecasted revenue and gross margin, are not sufficient to offset the changed market
conditions which management believes are permanent. Accordingly, the Company recorded a non-cash
impairment charge of $0.8 million in the third quarter of 2005 in its Consolidated Statement of
Operations that represents the difference between the fair market value of the product right based
upon its estimated discounted cash flows and the current carrying value of the product right prior
to the impairment charge.

Under the terms of the Delmarva purchase agreement, Virbac is required to make incremental
contingency payments based upon the achievement of certain performance thresholds for the product
rights acquired. The total contingent liability at the date of
acquisition was $2.5 million and in accordance with SFAS
No. 141, the Company accounted for this transaction under the
purchase method and recorded a liability of approximately
$2.2 million which represents the excess of the estimated fair
value of the acquired net assets over the initial cash payment. Such contingency payments include two payments for $250,000 each for the
Clindamycin product right upon the attainment of certain gross profit thresholds during the 24 and
48 month periods following commercialization of the product in November 2003. The performance evaluation period for the first of these two contingency
payments expired in November 2005 and the threshold had not been met; consequently, the Company
reduced the liability related to the contingent consideration for a
proportionate amount and recorded an offsetting decrease
to the intangible product right. The performance evaluation period for the second $250,000
contingency payment expires in November 2007.

General and administrative expenses decreased $1.7 million in 2005, as compared to 2004.
General and administrative expenses were unusually high in 2004, primarily due to elevated legal,
accounting and outside consulting costs related to the Audit Committee s internal investigation and
outside audit and consulting costs incurred in connection with the Restatement as described more
fully in its 2003 Form 10-K. During 2005 and 2004, incremental costs related to the aforementioned
activities were $2.1 million and $4.8 million, respectively, which represent a $2.7 million
decrease in 2005, as compared to 2004. This decrease is offset by an increase of $1.0 million in
general and administrative expenses in 2005, as compared to 2004, principally due to increased
personnel costs as a result of additional staffing in the finance organization and increased legal
expenses for the Company s 2003, 2004 and interim 2005 regulatory filings, all of which occurred in
2005.

General and administrative costs increased $3.0 million in 2004, as compared to 2003.
Principal reasons for the increase in general and administrative costs in 2004 included legal and
outside consulting costs incurred in connection with the Audit Committee s internal investigation
and outside audit and consulting support costs incurred in connection with the Restatement as
described more fully in its 2003 Form 10-K. The Company estimates that these incremental
non-recurring costs were approximately $4.8 million in 2004 and $1.8 million in 2003. The
incremental non-recurring costs in 2003 of $1.8 million include a $0.5 million civil money penalty
related to an earlier SEC settlement proposal which has since
been modified per the December 2005 Agreement. The December 2005 Agreement excludes a civil
money penalty and upon final approval by the SEC of the December 2005 Agreement, the Company will
reverse the existing $0.5 million accrual.

Research and development expenses include costs related to the development of new products
that include clinical study expenditures. Additionally, research and development expenses include
the costs of maintaining product registrations and other product regulatory requirements, such as
monitoring the safety and effectiveness of the products. Research and development expenses were
essentially flat in

34

Table of Contents   

2005, as compared to 2004, and remained at 4% of revenues in both periods.
Clinical study expenses increased $0.1 million in 2005, as compared to 2004, offset by a $0.1
million decrease in consultant fees. This shift in expenses is primarily due to fewer new project
starts that the Company uses consultants for, while clinical research increased due to studies to
support the launch of some topical products. Research and development expenses decreased to $3.3
million in 2004 or 4% of revenues, as compared to $4.9 million, or 7% of revenues in 2003. The
principal reason for the decrease in research and development expenses was lower clinical study
expenses.

On increased revenues, warehouse and distribution expenses remained nearly flat in all three
years presented as distribution costs are principally related to points of delivery, which has
remained fairly constant over the three years presented, and not volume.

The Company expects that 2006 operating expenses will be slightly higher as compared to 2005.
The Company expects significant increases in sales and marketing expenditures due to the addition
of sales and marketing personnel as well as increased marketing and advertising expenditures.
General and administrative expenses are expected to be significantly lower as the Company does not
expect to incur additional costs related to the Restatement and Audit Committee investigation.
Research and development expenses are expected to be significantly higher as the Company has
planned for a number of clinical research studies related to various new product initiatives.
Warehouse and distribution expenses are expected to remain at levels comparable with 2005.

Interest Expense and Other Income 

Interest expense and other income decreased by $0.1 million in 2005, as compared to 2004, as a
result of lower average borrowing levels in 2005, partially offset by higher average interest
rates. Average borrowings were $19.1 million and $27.0 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively.
The average interest rates for 2005 and 2004 were 7.27% and 5.46%, respectively. Interest expense
and other income of $l.5 million in 2004 represents an increase of $0.9 million or 140%, as
compared to 2003, due to higher average borrowing levels and higher overall interest rates. See
 Liquidity and Capital Resources  section below for further discussion.

The Company expects that interest expense will be slightly lower in 2006, as compared to 2005,
due to lower average borrowing levels, including the repayment in April 2006 of debt as described
more fully below.

Taxes 

The Company has recorded a full valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets due to the
uncertainty of recognizing the associated benefit and accordingly, generally does not record a
federal tax provision or benefit. Currently, and in the foreseeable future, as the Company incurs
tax expense or benefit, an offsetting decrease or increase is recorded to the valuation allowance.
The Company assesses the realizability of its deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis and will
eliminate the valuation allowance when warranted based on sustained profitable operating results.

In 2005, the Company fully utilized all of its Federal net operating loss carryforwards. As a
result, the Company recognized the deferred tax benefit related to the net operating loss
carryforwards
through the release of a portion of its valuation allowance. The portion of the valuation
allowance attributable to Agri-Nutrition s deductible temporary differences was applied to reduce
goodwill related to the acquisition. The portion of the valuation allowance attributable to
windfall stock option deductions embedded in the net operating loss carryforwards was recorded as a
charge to additional paid-in capital, and an excess release of the valuation allowance resulted in
a reduction to income tax expense.

35

Table of Contents   

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

In 2005, operating activities generated $7.5 million in cash. Principal operating sources of
cash flows included cash from operation of $7.8 million after adjusting for non-cash charges, a
decrease in accounts receivable of $0.7 million and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets
of $0.2 million. The accounts receivable decrease is primarily due to improved collections and a
resulting decrease in days sales outstanding to 29 at December 31, 2005, as compared to 42 days
sales outstanding at December 31, 2004. Principal uses of cash from operations were an increase in
inventory of $0.9 million and a decrease in accounts payable of $0.4 million. The Company
increased its safety supply of inventories to ensure its ability to meet anticipated customer
demand in the early part of 2006 upon the conversion to a new enterprise resource planning and
management information system.

In 2004, operating activities generated $9.3 million in cash. Principal operating sources of
cash flows included a decrease in inventories and accounts receivable of $4.3 million, cash from
operations of $4.9 million after adjusting for non-cash charges, and a decrease in prepaid expenses
and other assets of $0.8 million. Inventories declined in 2004 as a result of the Company s
improved forecasting and production planning activities. Accounts receivable declined in 2004 as
the Company substantially reduced the granting of extended payment terms to its customers.
Principal uses of cash from operations include a reduction in accounts payable of $0.8 million.

In 2003, operating activities utilized approximately $0.7 million in cash. Principal uses of
cash flows included an increase in inventories of $4.6 million and an increase in prepaid expenses
and other current assets of $0.5 million. The increase in inventories was due principally to the purchase of large quantities of a dental
care product for which the Company had forecasted significant revenues. The uses of cash were
offset by inflows of cash from the receipt of $1.7 million for product license rights under an agreement with
Pfizer, a decrease in accounts receivable of $1.5 million and an increase in accrued expenses of
$1.3 million.

Cash used in investing activities in 2005, 2004 and 2003 was primarily related to the
acquisition of equipment used in the Company s manufacturing operations and the acquisition of
product licenses and other intangible assets. Additionally, cash used in investing activities in
all three years presented includes expenditures related to the purchase and implementation of the
Company s new management information system. In 2005, cash used in investing activities includes a
$0.2 million payment related to contingent consideration in connection with the acquisition of
Delmarva. Under the terms of the Delmarva acquisition agreement, the Company agreed to make
certain contingent payments for various products rights acquired based upon the attainment of
certain performance thresholds. The payment made in 2005 was related to the Euthanasia product
category.

In 2003, cash used in investing activities included the acquisitions of King and Delmarva.
Both of these acquisitions are viewed as strategic by the Company and represent the Company s
further entrance into the pharmaceutical product market. The Company believes that pharmaceutical
products carry higher gross profit margins and continually evaluates other opportunities to
complement its existing portfolio of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical product offerings to
leverage its existing sales and distribution channels.

Cash flows from financing activities in all years presented reflect the activity under the
Credit Agreement, which is used primarily to fund working capital needs. Additionally, 2004 cash
flows from financing activities include proceeds from three secured subordinated promissory notes
in favor of VBSA totaling $9.0 million (the  VBSA Notes ) .  See below for a further discussion of
the VBSA Notes.

The Credit Agreement currently provides for total borrowings of up to $15.0 million, the
availability of which is determined by a borrowing base formula equal to a specified percentage of
the

36

Table of Contents   

Company s eligible accounts receivable and inventory plus an assigned value to both its
Bridgeton,
Missouri and Fort Worth, Texas facilities. The accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and
intangibles of the Company, as well as the real property of the Bridgeton and Fort Worth facilities
have been pledged as collateral under the Credit Agreement.

In 2003, the Credit Agreement was also used to fund the Delmarva and King acquisitions. The
Company had planned to substitute the additional short-term borrowing for these acquisitions with a
longer-term facility at more favorable rates. However, shortly after completing these acquisitions,
the Company informed its lenders that it would not be able to meet its September 30, 2003 Form 10-Q
reporting period covenant. On November 12, 2003, the Company received a 90-day waiver from its
lenders for non-compliance of the September 30, 2003 Form 10-Q reporting period covenant. The
waiver expired on February 10, 2004. Subsequent to this date, the Company entered into an
amendment to the Credit Agreement whereby the maturity date was extended to April 5, 2004.
Additionally, it was determined during this period that the Company was not in compliance with
certain financial covenants and that its borrowings were in excess of its borrowing base.

On April 9, 2004, the Company entered into a Forbearance Agreement under its Credit Agreement
(the  Forbearance Agreement ) with its lenders and agreed to a standstill period with a termination
date of May 10, 2004. Under key terms of the Forbearance Agreement the lenders agreed to not (i)
file or join in the filing of any involuntary petitions in bankruptcy with respect to the Company;
(ii) seek to collect or enforce against the Company by litigation or other legal proceedings any
payment or other obligation due under the Credit Agreement; or (iii) exercise or enforce any right
or remedy against the Company to which the lenders would be entitled by reason of any event of
default under the terms of the Credit Agreement.

The Company agreed that during the standstill period it would make additional payments of
principal to reduce the amount of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement by
approximately $7.0 million, which were in excess of the Company s borrowing base, as defined in the
Credit Agreement. From May 10, 2004 through May 6, 2005, the Company entered into various
amendments to the Forbearance Agreement the purpose of which was to extend the term and reduce the
amount available under the facility ultimately to $15.0 million.

In order to reduce the amount outstanding under the Credit Agreement and provide for operating
cash requirements, in April 2004 the Company executed a $3.0 million and a $4.0 million secured
subordinated promissory note (the  April Notes ), and on June 3, 2004, executed a $2.0 million
secured subordinated promissory note (the  June Note ) all in favor of VBSA. The VBSA Notes are
subordinate to the indebtedness of the Company under the Credit Agreement and are secured by all
the assets of the Company as defined in the Credit Agreement. The total borrowings under the VBSA
Notes are $9.0 million and under the original terms of the VBSA Notes, interest accrued at a base
rate of 5.5% per year, which was adjusted monthly based on the greater of the LIBOR Reference Rate
or the EURIBOR Reference Rate. During 2004 and 2005, the VBSA Notes have been amended from time to
time to extend the maturity dates. Pursuant to the most recent amendments to the VBSA Notes, which
were each dated August 2, 2005, the base rate at which interest accrues was changed to 5.0% per
annum. The current maturity date for the April Notes is April 9, 2007 and the maturity date for
the June Note is April 9, 2006.

On August 22, 2005, the Company and its lenders terminated the Forbearance Agreement and
entered into the eighth amendment to the Credit Agreement (the  Eighth Amendment ). Key terms of
the Eighth Amendment include: aggregate facility of $15.0 million, interest at prime, as defined
by the Credit Agreement ( Prime ) plus   1  / 2 %, compliance with certain key financial covenants, a
maturity date of September 30, 2006 and the waiver of any existing events of default. Effective
March 24, 2006, the Company has entered into a ninth amendment to the Credit Agreement which
provides that the maturity date is extended to March 31, 2007. At December 31, 2005, the total
borrowings under the Credit

37

Table of Contents   

Agreement were $6.0 million, availability was $7.2 million and
management believes the Company was in compliance with all covenants
except for the requirement to deliver budgeted fiscal 2006 financial
statements no later than December 1, 2005 for which the Company
received a waiver in connection with the Company entering into the
Ninth Amendment of the Credit Agreement.

The Company s cash requirements during 2004, and continuing into early 2005, have been
unusually high due to elevated legal fees associated with the internal investigation initiated by
the Audit Committee in late 2003, the Restatement and related audits of the Company s historical
financial statements, the SEC investigation and the shareholder lawsuits. To date the Company has
been able to fund these additional cash requirements from operating cash flows, the VBSA Notes and
insurance coverage provided by its directors and officers  insurance policy.

As discussed in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , Virbac has reached a settlement agreement in
principal with the SEC in regards to their investigation and has settled with the plaintiffs in the
putative shareholder class action lawsuit. As a result, the Company is able to estimate the cash
requirements necessary to resolve these significant uncertainties. The Company generated income
from operations and a cash inflow from operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004, and has also successfully maintained its lending relationships. Further, the unusual
cash requirements related to the Restatement, the SEC investigation and the shareholder lawsuits
have subsided in the second half of 2005 and the results of operations have improved as a result of
the King and Delmarva acquisitions and improved heartworm preventative product revenues.
Management believes that all of these aforementioned factors have resulted in a stronger financial
position for the Company and provide it with the necessary liquidity to fund operating activities
in the ordinary course.

The Company expects that cash flows from operations in 2006 will be slightly lower than 2005
as a result of increased investments in its operations, mainly in the sales and marketing and
research and development activities. Cash used in investing activities is expected to be slightly
higher in 2006 as compared to 2005 dues to increased capital expenditures, mainly related to its
manufacturing facilities. The Company currently plans to repay the June Note in April 2006 and will
evaluate additional debt repayments and/or additional borrowing requirements under its revolving
credit facility in 2006 depending on cash generated from operations.

Contractual Obligations and Commitments 

The Company has future obligations for debt repayments, minimum rentals under operating leases
and other contractual purchase obligations. A summary of Virbac s contractual obligations and
commitments as of December 31, 2005, are as follows:

In addition, the Company s borrowings under its Credit Agreement require the payment of
interest at the rate of Prime plus   1  / 2 %, or 7.75% at December 31, 2005. On an outstanding balance of
$6.0 million, the interest payments approximate $0.5 million per year.

Under the terms of the VBSA Notes interest accrues at a base rate of 5.0% per year, which is
adjusted monthly, based on the greater of the LIBOR Reference Rate or the EURIBOR Reference Rate,
or

38

Table of Contents   

8.20% at December 31, 2005. On an outstanding balance of $9.0 million, interest payments
approximate $0.7 million per year.

Quarterly Effects and Seasonality 

The sales of certain products in the Veterinary segment, including Virbac s tick collars, have
historically been seasonal with a higher volume of sales during the Company s second and third
quarters. The canine heartworm products generally have higher sales in the first and second
quarters. The results of operations of the Company s Consumer Brand segment have also been
seasonal with a relatively lower volume of its sales during the fourth quarter. Seasonal patterns
of the Contract Manufacturing segment are dependent on weather, livestock feeding economics and the
timing of customer orders.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 

In May 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections   A Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes ( APB 20 ),
and SFAS No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements, ( SFAS No. 154 ),
which applies to (i) all voluntary changes in accounting principle and (ii) all changes required by
a new accounting pronouncement where no specific transition provisions are included. SFAS No. 154
requires companies to apply the direct effects of a change in accounting principle retrospectively
to prior periods  financial statements unless impracticable. APB 20 required companies to recognize
most voluntary changes in accounting principle by including the cumulative effect of the change in
net income of the period in which the change was made. SFAS No. 154 redefines  restatement  as the
revising of previously issued financial statements to reflect the correction of an error. SFAS No.
154 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005, with early adoption permitted
for fiscal years beginning after June 1, 2005. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 154 effective
January 1, 2006. The Company does not expect that its adoption of SFAS No. 154 will have a
material impact on its financial statements.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payment ( SFAS No.
123R ). SFAS No. 123R requires compensation costs related to share-based payment transactions to
be recognized in the financial statements. With limited exceptions, the amount of the compensation
cost is to be measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity or liability instruments
issued. In addition, liability awards are to be re-measured each reporting period. Compensation
cost will be recognized over the period that an employee provides service in exchange for the
award. SFAS No. 123R is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation ( SFAS
No. 123 ) as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   Transition and
Disclosure, and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees ( APB 25 ). SFAS No. 123R is effective for public companies as of the first interim
or annual reporting period of the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. Virbac will
adopt SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006 using the modified prospective transition method
which requires that the Company recognize compensation expense for all new and unvested share-based
payment awards from the effective date. Had Virbac adopted SFAS No. 123R in prior
periods, the impact would have approximated the impact of SFAS No. 123 as described in the pro
forma net earnings and earnings per share disclosure in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies,  (r) Employee stock-based compensation   of the  Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.  The ultimate amount of expense associated with the adoption of this pronouncement
will be based, among other things, on grants of stock options vested at the date of adoption and
their fair value at the date of grant. Virbac is still evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No.
123R on its results of operations in 2006 but does not expect it will have a material impact on its
financial statements.

39

Table of Contents   

In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) FAS 109-1, Application of FASB
No. 109, Accounting for Income Tax, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities
Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ( FSP FAS 109-1 ). FSP FAS 109-1 clarifies SFAS
No. 109 s guidance that applies to the new tax deduction for qualified domestic production
activities. FSP FAS 109-1 became effective upon issuance and did not have a significant impact on
the Company s effective tax rate in 2005.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs ( SFAS No. 151 ). This new
standard amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing, to clarify the
accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted
material. SFAS No. 151 requires that these items be recognized as current-period charges and
requires that allocation of fixed production overhead to the costs of conversion be based on the
normal capacity of the production facilities. This statement is effective for fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company does not expect that its adoption of SFAS No. 151 will
have a material impact on its financial statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. 

At December 31, 2005, the Company s exposure to market risks resulted from changes in interest
rates related to the Credit Agreement and the VBSA Notes. As of December 31, 2005, the Credit
Agreement had a floating interest rate based on Prime plus   1  / 2 %. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the
Company had $6.0 million and $13.0 million, respectively, of floating rate debt under the Credit
Agreement. The average interest rate on the Credit Agreement was 7.01% and 5.30% in 2005 and 2004,
respectively, which resulted in interest expense on the Credit Agreement of $0.7 million and $1.0
million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The interest rate on the Credit Agreement as of December
31, 2005, was 7.75%. The current maturity date of the Credit Agreement is March 31, 2007.

In the second quarter of 2004, the Company executed the VBSA Notes in amounts aggregating $9.0
million. At December 31, 2005, under the terms of the VBSA Notes, interest accrued at a base rate
of 5.0% per year, which is adjusted monthly, based on the greater of the LIBOR Reference Rate or
the EURIBOR Reference Rate. The average interest rate on the VBSA Notes was 7.58% and 5.82% in
2005 and 2004, respectively, resulting in interest expense of $0.7 million and $0.4 million in 2005
and 2004, respectively. The interest rate on the VBSA Notes as of December 31, 2005 was 8.20%.
The current maturity date of the April Notes is April 9, 2007 and the June Note matures on April 9,
2006.

A sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse affect on the financial condition
and results of operations of the Company. The Company has not entered into any instruments to
minimize the market risk of adverse changes in interest rates because the Company believes the cost
associated with such instruments would outweigh the benefits that would be obtained from utilizing
such instruments. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had a weighted average interest rate
for its combined financing facilities of 8.02% and 6.43%, respectively. If interest rates
applicable to the Company s floating rate debt increased 100 basis points in the twelve-month
periods ended December 31, 2005 or 2004, the Company would have experienced additional interest
expense of $150,000 and $220,000, respectively, for these twelve-month periods, while an increase
in the rate of 500 basis points would result in an estimated annualized increase in interest
expense for the Company of approximately $0.8 million and $1.1 million, respectively. This assumes
no change in the principal or a reduction of such indebtedness at December 31, 2005 or 2004. The
Company has no significant fixed-rate long-term debt obligations.

The Company does not have any derivative instruments that materially increase its exposure to
market risks for interest rates, foreign currency rates, commodity prices or other market price
risks. In addition, the Company does not use derivatives for speculative purposes.

40

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. 

The financial statements prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X are included in a separate
section of this Annual Report on
 Form 10-K.  See the index to Financial Statements at Item 15.
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules,  for further information.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. 

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. 

(a) Evaluation of the Company s Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) are
controls and other procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the
information that the Company is required to disclose in its reports that are filed under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by
the SEC s rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management
as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

The Company s current management, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation
of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005, as required by Rule
13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. This evaluation included a consideration of the controls, processes
and procedures that comprise Virbac s internal controls over financial reporting. Based upon this
evaluation, current management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2005, as a result of the
material weaknesses in the Company s internal controls discussed below, Virbac s disclosure
controls and procedures were not effective. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or
combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material
misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected.

Identification of Material Weaknesses in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

Certain of the control weaknesses which existed during the years 2003 and prior and which
resulted in the restatement of the Company s 2002 and 2001 annual and 2003, 2002 and 2001 interim
financial statements, continue to exist as of December 31, 2005. These deficiencies individually
result in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in the annual or interim
financial statements will not be prevented or detected and are therefore material weaknesses.
These material weaknesses include the following:

Deficiencies related to the internal control environment.  The Company has not
developed an effective control environment which would address the experience and
depth of certain sales, operating, accounting and financial management personnel,
and the Company continues to lack a robust governance function and adequate
financial oversight. 

Deficiencies related to the design, documentation and execution of accounting
policies and procedures . Controls are ineffective or not effectively executed or
monitored, including the non-documentation of business process policies and
procedures, adequate segregation of responsibilities and the establishment of
effective management review controls. 

41

Table of Contents   

Deficiencies related to policies and procedures with respect to revenue
recognition . In addition to the deficiencies in the internal control environment
noted above, current management has also concluded that policies and procedures
with respect to revenue recognition in accordance with GAAP may be either
misapplied or ignored in a manner that permits the Company to recognize revenue
prematurely. 

In making this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer considered,
among other matters:

the Restatement; 

the findings of the Audit Committee s internal investigation; 

the resignations of the Company s former President and Chief Executive Officer,
former Chief Financial Officer and other employees resulting from the findings of
the internal investigation; 

the material weaknesses in the Company s internal control over financial
reporting that were identified by Virbac and the Company s independent registered
public accounting firm; 

the remedial measures that the Company has identified, developed and begun to
implement beginning in November 2003, to remedy those material weaknesses (as more
fully described below); and 

the Company s inability to file timely its 2004 and 2003 Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K and its 2005 Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005. 

(b) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

Virbac has taken a number of steps during 2005 that have improved, and are expected to
continue to improve, the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting,
including the following:

Virbac has appointed a new member to its Board who qualifies as a financial
expert in accordance with Section 407 of SOX. This Board member has also been
appointed chairman of the Audit Committee. 

The Audit Committee has exercised increased oversight over management s
assessment of internal control over financial reporting and response to control
deficiencies identified in these assessments. 

Virbac has established a Disclosure Review Committee, consisting of senior
executives from the Company s sales, research, operating and finance organizations.
The Disclosure Review Committee was established to assist in the administration of
disclosure controls and procedures with respect to the Company s public
disclosures, including SEC filings. 

Virbac has sought to thoroughly understand the nature of the issues identified
in the Audit Committee-sponsored internal investigation through discussions with
its independent registered public accounting firm and the independent counsel and
forensic accountants engaged by the Audit Committee. 

42

Table of Contents   

Virbac has recruited and continues to recruit new personnel to the accounting
and financial reporting organization who have expertise in financial controls,
financial reporting and cost accounting to improve the quality and level of
experience of the Company s finance organization. 

Virbac has adopted and is implementing formal standard financial policies and
procedures, education and training of employees on policies and procedures in an
effort to constantly improve internal controls and the control environment.
GAAP-compliant revenue recognition policies have been communicated to sales,
operations and financial personnel throughout the Company. The Company has also
implemented new inventory obsolescence review and cycle-count policies. 

Virbac implemented a standardized account reconciliation policy, which requires
the monthly reconciliation of all balance sheet accounts and the use of standard
methodology and templates for account reconciliations. 

The Company continues to work to improve its internal control over financial
reporting and has recently implemented a fully integrated management information
system in its Fort Worth facility, which provides enhanced internal control
features. The Company expects to implement the same system in its St. Louis
facility in May 2006. 

Virbac continues to review and improve its significant accounting practices,
improve accounting accuracy and identify process and internal control improvements.
The Company has made significant investments in improving its internal control
environment as it begins its readiness to implement the provisions of Section 404
of SOX. 

The effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures and internal control
over financial reporting is subject to certain limitations, including the exercise of judgment in
designing, implementing and evaluating the controls and procedures, the assumptions used in
identifying the likelihood of future events, and the inability to eliminate misconduct completely.
As a result, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent all errors or improper acts or ensure that all material information will
be made known to appropriate management in a timely fashion.

Other than as summarized above, during 2005, there have been no other significant changes in
the Company s internal control over financial reporting or in other factors that have materially
affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company s internal controls.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION. 

Not applicable.

43

Table of Contents   

PART III 

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. 

Information about the Company s Directors and Executive Officers is incorporated by reference
from the discussion under Item 1 of the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement. Information about
compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated by reference from the discussion
under the heading  Section   16(a)   Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the Company s 2006
Proxy Statement. Information about the Company s Audit Committee, including the members of the
committee, and the Audit Committee financial experts, is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the heading  Audit Committee  in the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement. Information
about the Virbac Policies on Business Conduct governing its employees, including its Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, and the Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics governing its Directors, is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the heading  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  in the Company s 2006 Proxy
Statement.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. 

Information about Director and Executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the headings  Summary Compensation Table, Option Exercises and Holdings and
Employment Agreements  in the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDERS
MATTERS. 

Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the
heading  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  in the Company s 2006 Proxy
Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS. 

Information about certain relationships and transactions with related parties is incorporated
by reference from the discussion under the heading  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 
in the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES. 

Information about the fees for 2005 and 2004 for professional services rendered by the
Company s independent registered public accountants is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the heading  Independent Registered Public Accountants  in Item 2 of the Company s
2006 Proxy Statement. Virbac s Audit Committee s Policy on pre-approval of audit and permissible
non-audit services of its independent registered public accountants is incorporated by reference
from the section captioned  Audit Committee Administration of the Engagement   Procedures for
Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Company s Independent Registered
Public Accountants  in Item 2 of the Company s 2006 Proxy Statement.

44

Table of Contents   

PART IV 

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES. 

(a)(1) List of Financial Statements commences on page F-1:

The following is a list of the financial statements included at pages F-2 through F-xx in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004

Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2005

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2005

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves.

All other schedules have been omitted because they are either not applicable or not required,
or the required information is provided in the consolidated financial statements or notes
thereto.

(2) Exhibits   refer to (b) below.

(b) Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

Incorporation  

Exhibit  

by Reference  

Number  
       
      Description of Document  
       
      (if applicable)  

2.4

Warehousing and Distribution Agreement between Purina
Mills, Inc. and PM Resources, Inc. dated September 9,
1993.

(1); Ex. 2.4 

2.5

Indemnity Agreement between Purina Mills, Inc. and PM
Resources, Inc. dated September 9, 1993.

(1); Ex. 2.5 

2.11

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 16, 1998, by
and among Agri-Nutrition Group Limited, Virbac S.A., and
Virbac, Inc.

(7); Ex. 2.1 

2.12

Stock Purchase Agreement by and between Virbac Corporation
and Delmarva Laboratories, Inc. dated as of August 15,
2003.

(14); Ex. 2.2 

2.13

Asset Purchase Agreement by and among Virbac Corporation,
Jones Pharma Incorporated and JMI- Daniels
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. dated as of September 5, 2003.

(13); Ex. 2.1 

45

Table of Contents   

46

Table of Contents   

47

Table of Contents   

48

Table of Contents   

Incorporation  

Exhibit  

by Reference  

Number  
       
      Description of Document  
       
      (if applicable)  

10.43

Second Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note
Dated as of April 29, 2004 by and among Virbac
Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories,
Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc.,
Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated
August 2, 2005.

(17); Ex 10.42 

10.44

Second Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note
Dated as of June 3, 2004 by and among Virbac Corporation,
PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex
Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva
Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated August 2,
2005.

(17); Ex 10.43 

10.45

Third Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note
Dated as of April 9, 2004 by and among Virbac Corporation,
PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex
Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva
Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated March 7, 2006.

10.46

Third Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note
Dated as of April 29, 2004 by and among Virbac
Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories,
Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc.,
Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated March
7, 2006.

10.47

Amendment to Subordination Agreement as of April 9, 2004,
by and between VIRBAC, S.A., a business organized under
the laws of the Republic of France and First Bank, dated
August 22, 2005.

(17); Ex 10.44 

10.48

Forbearance Agreement by and among Virbac Corporation, PM
Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex
Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva
Laboratories, Inc., and First Bank, dated April 9, 2004.

(14); Ex. 10.16 

10.49

Amendment to Forbearance Agreement by and among Virbac
Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories,
Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc.,
Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and First Bank, dated May 10,
2004.

(14); Ex. 10.17 

10.50

Second Amendment to Forbearance Agreement by and among
Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON
Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac
AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and First Bank,
dated August 9, 2004.

(14); Ex. 10.20 

10.51

Third Amendment to Forbearance Agreement by and among
Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON
Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac
AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and First Bank,
dated February 7, 2005.

(14); Ex. 10.21 

49

Table of Contents   

Incorporation  

Exhibit  

by Reference  

Number  
       
      Description of Document  
       
      (if applicable)  

10.52

Amendment to Forbearance Agreement Dated as of April 9,
2004 to Amend Delivery of Audited Financial Statements by
and among Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON
Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac
AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A.,
dated April 1, 2005.

(14); Ex. 10.26 

10.53

Waiver of 2001 and 2002 Financial Covenant Defaults and
Amendment to Forbearance Agreement Dated as of April 9,
2004 to Amend Delivery of Audited Financial Statements by
and among Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON
Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac
AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A.,
dated April 15, 2005.

(14); Ex. 10.27 

10.54

Fifth Amendment to Forbearance Agreement by and among
Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON
Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac
AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and First Bank,
dated May 6, 2005.

(16); Ex. 10.1 

14.1

Virbac Corporation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.

(15); Ex. 14.1 

21.1

Subsidiaries of Virbac Corporation.

(15); Ex. 21.1 

23.1

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

31.1

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1

Certification pursuant to 18. U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002.

99.1

Virbac Corporation Charter of the Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors.

(15); Ex. 99.1 

99.2

Supplement A to the Virbac Corporation Charter of the
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

(15); Ex. 99.2 

99.3

Independent Auditor s Report and Statements of Net Assets
Sold and Statements of Revenues and Direct Expenses of the
Animal Health Product Lines of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

(15); Ex. 99.3 

99.4

Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial
Statements of Virbac Corporation.

(15); Ex. 99.4 

Filed herewith. 

50

Table of Contents   

51

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

VIRBAC CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Erik R. Martinez

Erik R. Martinez  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

Signature  
       
      Title  
       
      Date  

/s/ Erik R. Martinez

Erik R. Martinez

President and Chief Executive
Officer  
(Principal
Executive Officer)

March 31, 2006 

/s/ Jean M. Nelson

Executive Vice President and  
       
     March 31, 2006 

Jean M. Nelson

Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

/s/ Eric Mar e

Eric Mar e

Chairman of the Board 

March 31, 2006 

/s/ Michel Garaudet

Michel Garaudet

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/ Pierre A. Pag s

Pierre A. Pag s

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/ Richard W. Pickert

Richard W. Pickert

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/ Alec L. Poitevint, II

Alec L. Poitevint, II

Director 

March 31, 2006 

/s/ Jean No l Willk

Jean No l Willk

Director 

March 31, 2006 

52

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Page  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

F-2 

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004  

F-3 

Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2005  

F-4 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2005  

F-5 

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2005  

F-7 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  

F-8 

F-1

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Board of Directors and 
Shareholders of Virbac Corporation:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under
Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Virbac
Corporation and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2005 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index
appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These
financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Fort Worth, Texas 
March 31, 2006

F-2

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

(In thousands, except share data)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

F-3

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 

(In thousands, except earnings per share)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(In thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and financing activities:

Supplemental Disclosure of Non-Cash Financing Activities:

In order to maintain VBSA s approximate indirect ownership interest in the Company through
Interlab until the expiration, termination or exercise of all options to purchase the Company s
Common Stock outstanding as of the date of the merger, as described in Note 1.  Description of
Business , the Company will contemporaneously, with the issuance of Common Stock upon the exercise
of pre-merger Company options, issue to Interlab a number of additional shares of Common Stock
equal to the product of (a) the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise
of such Company options and (b) 1.5. Due to the issuance of 59,000 and 39,889 shares
of Common Stock from the exercise of pre-merger options during 2005 and 2003, respectively, the
Company issued 88,500 and 59,834 shares of Common Stock to Interlab in January 2006
and October 2005, respectively. These shares have been included in the calculation of diluted
earnings per share for the appropriate periods. No new shares will be issued to Interlab in the
event that treasury shares are reissued to satisfy these pre-merger obligations because the use of
treasury shares does not dilute VBSA s indirect ownership interest.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

(In thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

F-7

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 1. Description of Business 

The business now operated by Virbac Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (the
 Company  or  Virbac ) was initiated in 1993 when Agri-Nutrition Group Limited, a Delaware
corporation ( Agri-Nutrition ), acquired the animal health industries business of Purina Mills,
Inc. In July 1994, Agri-Nutrition completed an initial public offering of its Common Stock, $0.01
par value per share (the  Common Stock ). On March 5, 1999, Virbac S.A. ( VBSA ) a company
organized under the laws of the Republic of France, acquired control of the Company in a merger,
which resulted in VBSA indirectly owning approximately 60% of the outstanding Common Stock. In
connection with the merger, the Company changed its name to  Virbac Corporation .

Virbac, based in Fort Worth, Texas, develops, manufactures, markets, distributes and sells a
variety of pet and companion animal health products, focusing on dermatological, parasiticidal,
dental and certain pharmaceutical products. The Company has three reportable segments: the
Veterinary segment, which provides animal health products to veterinary clinics throughout North
America; the Consumer Brand segment, which sells over-the-counter products for companion animal
health to national accounts, distributors and wholesalers; and the Contract Manufacturing segment
which offers a broad range of services and specialized expertise in the manufacture of highly
regulated animal health products. The Contract Manufacturing segment operates as PM Resources,
Inc., a Missouri corporation ( PMR ), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. PMR is
based in a 176,000 square-foot Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) and Food and Drug
Administration ( FDA ) registered facility in Bridgeton, Missouri, and formulates products under
private-label and provides third party contract manufacturing services for products used in the
animal health and specialty chemical industries, including products for over 20 international,
national and regional veterinary pharmaceutical companies.

Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

(a) Principles of consolidation 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its majority
owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company transactions and accounts have been eliminated.

(b) Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses and the related
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and during
the reporting periods. The most significant areas of estimation include the determination of sales
reserves for product returns or credits and marketing incentive rebates; inventory obsolescence
reserves; depreciable lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets; purchase
accounting; impairment of long-lived and intangible assets; credit losses on accounts receivable;
income taxes; and contingency and litigation reserves. Actual results could vary materially from
these estimates.

(c) Revenue recognition and accounts receivable 

The Company recognizes revenue, net of an estimate for sales related reserves, when the
following four criteria have been met: (i) persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists; (ii)
delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (iii) the seller s price is fixed and
determinable and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured.

F-8

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Effective in the second quarter of 2004, for customer service and policy consistency reasons,
Virbac changed its stated shipping policy with its Veterinary and Consumer Brand customers to
FOB-destination. Accordingly, Virbac began to recognize revenues upon delivery to these customers.
Prior to this change in operational policy, Virbac recognized revenues at the time of shipment to
all of its Veterinary distributors. Virbac recognized revenues for its Consumer Brand customers in
accordance with the customer contract terms, which included either FOB-shipping point or
FOB-destination. The net effect of this change was to reduce 2004 revenues by approximately $1.0
million and to reduce diluted income per share by $.02.

Virbac recognizes revenue for its Contract Manufacturing customers in accordance with the
customer contract terms. The majority of contracts provide that title and risk of loss pass to the
customer upon delivery to the common carrier and accordingly, revenue is recognized at the time of
shipment. A major Contract Manufacturing customer s contract provides that acceptance occurs upon
written notice or 30 days after receipt in order to allow time for inspection; accordingly, the
Company recognizes revenue upon acceptance. Revenue related to certain Contract Manufacturing customers for which the Company provides
warehousing and/or distribution services, is recognized upon the completion of the manufacturing
process, when the customer accepts all risks of ownership but requests, due to the nature of the
inventory, that the Company hold the inventory for a short period of time and all the other
necessary conditions for revenue recognition have been met.

During 2003, the Company recognized revenue for certain of its product sales, principally the
livestock de-wormer product, at the time of cash collection, as collectibility was not reasonably
assured at the time of shipment. Additionally, the Company recognized revenue at the time of cash
collection for all sales transactions during 2003 for which there was a warehousing arrangement in
connection with the delivery. The total revenue from these consignment sale transactions during
2003 was $2.3 million and in the first quarter of 2004, the Company recognized revenue of $2.0
million for products that were shipped in 2003, but were paid for in 2004.

The Company has received payments on two products related to its license agreement with
Pfizer, Inc. ( Pfizer ) which have been reflected as unearned product license fees in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Upon the Company obtaining registrations from the
appropriate governmental agencies permitting it to sell these products, the Company began to
recognize revenue from these product license fees during the fourth quarter of 2002 for the first
product and during the third quarter of 2003 for the second product. Revenue is recognized on a
proportionate basis, based upon estimates of when the sales of each of these products will occur
over the periods covered by the licenses, adjusted for historical experience.

The allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated based on historical charge-off experience,
evaluation of customers  delinquency status and assumptions regarding probable credit losses. Such
estimates are reviewed monthly and may be impacted by actual performance of trade receivables and
changes in any of the factors discussed above. The Company believes that the allowance for doubtful
accounts is adequate to cover probable losses inherent in its receivables and actual losses to date
have not exceeded expectations; however, because the allowance for doubtful accounts is based on
estimates, there can be no assurance that the ultimate charge-off amount will not exceed such
estimates. Account balances are charged against the allowance when the Company believes it is
probable that the receivable will not be recovered.

F-9

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(d) Sales related and product replacement reserves 

The Company s gross product sales are subject to a variety of deductions, primarily
representing expired product returns and rebates granted to customers. These deductions represent
estimates of the related obligation and, as such, judgment is required when estimating the impact
of these sales deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. The sensitivity of the estimates
can vary by program, type of customer and geographic location. Sales return estimates associated
with certain veterinary products with limited expiration periods are at risk for material
adjustment because the customers may return unsold expired products. Other products with longer
lives have longer return periods, which make determination of their ultimate return rate more
difficult. The amount recorded as a reduction to revenues for sales related reserves in 2005, 2004
and 2003 was $2.4 million, $3.0 million and $4.1 million, respectively.

Additionally, Virbac s distribution agreements typically provide that the Company can elect to
replace expired product in lieu of issuing a credit. Virbac records the estimated cost for product
replacement as a charge to cost of sales in the period the sale occurs. In 2004, Virbac
discontinued its policy of replacing expired product and currently only issues credits for expired
product returns. The amount recorded for product replacement expense in 2003 was $0.4 million.

The Company generally records marketing related sales incentives, such as cooperative
advertising, as a charge to sales and marketing expense at the time the related revenues are
recorded or when the incentive is offered, whichever is later. Virbac estimates the cost of sales
incentives based on historical experience with similar incentive programs. The amount recorded for
marketing related sales incentives in 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $1.3 million, $0.3 million, and $0.3
million, respectively.

The Company s sales related reserves are recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets, rather than a reduction in accounts receivable, as the sales to which they pertain have
generally been collected and these reserves represent liabilities for future performance.

(e) Cash and cash equivalents 

The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an original or remaining maturity of
three months or less when acquired to be cash equivalents. At times, the Company has cash on
deposit in certain banks in amounts that may exceed federally insured limits.

(f) Concentration of credit risk 

The Company sells its products to customers in the animal health and specialty chemical
business throughout the United States and abroad. Members of one veterinary distributor consortium
represent the Company s largest group of customers and accounted for approximately 21%, 17%, and
20% of revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These revenues are reflected in the
Veterinary and Contract Manufacturing segments. Accounts receivable balances outstanding from this
same buying group as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $1.7 million and $1.9
million, respectively.

(g) Fair value of financial instruments 

The fair values of financial instruments approximate their carrying values, due primarily to
the short-term nature of their maturities or their variable interest rates.

F-10

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(h) Inventories and inventories on consignment 

Inventories include material, labor and overhead and are stated at the lower of average cost
or market. Inventory is written-down for estimated obsolescence when warranted based on estimates
of future demand and the shelf-life of products. If actual market conditions are less favorable
than those estimated by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventories
on consignment represent finished goods delivered to customers in transactions for which revenue
recognition is not appropriate.

(i) Valuation of intangible assets and goodwill 

The Company has separately identifiable intangibles, which include trademarks, patents,
product license rights and product rights acquired in connection with business acquisitions, and
acquired goodwill. With the exception of trademarks and one product right, all of the Company s
intangible assets are definite-lived assets. Intangible asset lives are determined based upon
contract terms, legal rights or Company-prepared economic models. For product rights acquired in
connection with a business acquisition, the original valuation of the intangibles is typically
performed by a third-party appraiser and may include the use of estimates that the Company provides
concerning future profitability, cash flows and other judgmental factors.

The Company assesses the recoverability of intangible assets and goodwill upon the occurrence
of an event that might indicate conditions for impairment could exist, or at least annually for
goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. Factors the Company considers important that could trigger an impairment review for intangible
assets include the following:

significant underperformance of the asset relative to expected
historical or projected future operating results; 

significant changes in the manner or extent of the Company s use of the
acquired asset or the strategy for the Company s overall business; 

significant negative industry or economic trends; and 

significant decline in the market value of the intangible asset for a
sustained period of time. 

The Company s evaluation of recoverability for definite-lived intangible assets involves
comparing the carrying value of the intangible asset to the expected future undiscounted cash flows
that the asset will generate. If the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable, an
impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying
amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a charge to earnings in
the period the impairment occurs. Additionally, if it is determined that the estimated remaining
useful life of the asset should be decreased, the periodic amortization expense is adjusted based
on the new carrying value and/or life of the asset. The Company s intangible assets with
determinable lives are recorded at cost and amortized over periods ranging from six to 32 years.

The
Company s evaluation of potential impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets and
goodwill involves comparing the carrying value of the asset to the estimated fair value of the
asset. The Company s
goodwill is generated by the Veterinary segment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less
than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded for the difference between the fair value
of the goodwill and its carrying value. For additional information see Note 8.  Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets. 

F-11

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

The determination of fair value is based on various valuation techniques such as discounted
cash flow and other comparable market analyses. These valuation
techniques require the Company to make estimates and assumptions regarding future profitability,
industry factors, planned strategic initiatives, discount rates and other factors. If actual
results or the performance of certain intangible assets and business units are different from the
Company s estimates, the Company may be exposed to additional impairment charges related to its
intangible assets and goodwill.

The Company s reporting units are generally consistent with the operating segments identified
in Note 16.  Segment and Related Information .

(j) Property, plant and equipment 

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred;
acquisitions, major renewals and improvements are capitalized. When property is retired or
otherwise disposed of, the related cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts
and any profit or loss on disposition is credited or charged to operations.

The Company provides for depreciation by charging amounts sufficient to amortize the cost of
the properties over their estimated useful lives. The straight-line method of depreciation is
utilized for substantially all asset categories.

A summary of estimated useful lives used in computing depreciation is as follows:

Estimated  

Useful Life  

Building and leasehold improvements

5-20 years 

Production equipment

5-7 years 

Furniture, computer equipment and software, and fixtures

2-7 years 

Vehicles

3-4 years 

(k) Advertising costs 

Advertising costs are expensed the first time the advertisement occurs. Advertising expense
for 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $2.4 million, $1.6 million, and $2.4 million, respectively. Prepaid
expenses at December 31, 2005 and 2004, included deferred advertising costs of $6,000 and $18,000,
respectively.

(l) Freight to customers 

Freight and handling expense related to sales activities for 2005, 2004 and 2003, was $1.3
million, $1.3 million, and $1.2 million, respectively, and is classified as warehouse and
distribution expense.

(m) Research and development expenses 

Research and development costs are charged to expense when incurred. These costs principally
consist of labor and third party consulting fees. Research and development expenses for 2005, 2004
and 2003 were approximately $3.3 million, $3.3 million, and $4.9 million, respectively.

F-12

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(n) Income taxes 

Virbac accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under the asset and
liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. In addition, deferred tax assets
are also recorded with respect to net operating losses and other tax attribute carryforwards.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in
which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred
tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that
includes the enactment date.

Valuation allowances are established when realization of the benefit of deferred tax assets is
not deemed to be more likely than not. A high degree of judgment is required to determine the
extent that valuation allowances should be provided against deferred tax assets. Virbac has
provided valuation allowances aggregating $6.2 million and $8.0 million at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively, against its deferred tax assets and will eliminate the valuation allowance when
warranted based on sustained profitable operating results.

(o) Business combinations 

Virbac accounts for business combinations using the purchase method of accounting in
accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 141,
Business Combinations ( SFAS No. 141 ). The results of operations of the acquired business are
included in the consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. The cost to
acquire companies, including transaction costs, has been allocated to the underlying net assets of
the acquired companies based on their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price
over estimated fair values of the tangible and identified intangible assets acquired has been
recorded as goodwill. The application of purchase accounting requires a high degree of judgment
and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions.

Although Virbac generally uses independent third party valuation specialists to determine the
fair values of acquired assets and assumed liabilities for purposes of performing purchase price
allocations, such valuations are based in large part on management s estimates and assumptions that
the Company believes to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain. The most significant of
these assumptions involves the estimation of future cash flows of acquired product rights and the
discounting of such cash flows to estimate the fair value of acquired intangible assets such as
product rights.

Other significant estimates and assumptions are required to value acquired receivables,
inventories, other assets and various assumed liabilities. The fair values reflected in the
Company s purchase price allocations impact depreciation, amortization, impairment charges and
other components of Virbac s ongoing operating results. Accordingly, variations in the estimates
and assumptions from the amounts reflected in the final purchase price allocations would result in
changes to the Company s operating results. In this regard, different classes of assets have
varying impacts on the Company s operating results. For example, goodwill is no longer amortized,
but is instead reviewed at least annually during the fourth quarter for possible impairment.

(p) Earnings per share 

Basic earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average number of outstanding
common shares during the period. Diluted earnings per share include the effect of all potential
issuances of common shares arising from the effect of outstanding stock options and under the
anti-

F-13

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

dilution provisions of the merger agreement with VBSA. Dilutive potential common shares
arising from the effect of outstanding stock options are computed using the treasury stock method
if dilutive.

The following table reconciles the numerator and denominator used in the basic and diluted
earnings per share ( EPS ) calculations:

Because the Company reported a loss in 2003, the net loss per diluted share for the year ended
December 31, 2003 excludes the effect of 722,000 common stock equivalents. Additionally, there
were 262,000, 404,000 and 635 options in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which were excluded
from the calculation of common stock equivalents as the effect of their inclusion would be
anti-dilutive.

(q) Environmental liabilities and expenditures 

Environmental expenditures that relate to current operations are expensed or capitalized as
appropriate. Expenditures that relate to existing conditions caused by past operations, and which
do not contribute to current or future revenue are expensed. Liabilities are recorded when it is
probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated, based upon
current law and existing technologies. These amounts are not discounted, are exclusive of claims
against third parties and are adjusted periodically as assessment and remediation efforts progress
or additional technical or legal information becomes available.

(r) Employee stock-based compensation 

The Company accounts for stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed
in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ( APB 25 ).
Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized for the Company s fixed price stock option
plans, as the exercise price of the options is equal to the stock price on the date of grant. Had
compensation cost for all of the Company s stock option plans been determined based upon the fair
value at the grant dates consistent with the fair value recognition provisions prescribed in SFAS
No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation ( SFAS No. 123 ), the Company s net income (loss)
and net income (loss) per share would have changed to the pro forma amounts listed below using the
weighted average fair values indicated.

F-14

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant, using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for the periods in which
options were granted. No options were granted in 2005 or 2004.

2003  

Expected dividend yield

0 
     % 

Expected volatility

88.4 
     % 

Risk-free interest rate

4.3 
     % 

Expected life (in years)

6.9 

Weighted average fair value of options granted
measured at the original date of grant

$ 
     5.84 

(s) Comprehensive income 

Comprehensive income is defined as the change in equity (net assets) of a business enterprise
during a period except for those changes resulting from investments by shareholders and
distributions to shareholders. For the periods presented, there were no components of other
comprehensive income and, consequently, comprehensive income was equivalent to net income (loss).

(t) Change in classification 

Certain amounts in the December 31, 2004, consolidated financial statements have been
reclassified to conform to the December 31, 2005, presentation. The Company reclassified on its
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2004 approximately $1.4 million in  Checks
outstanding  from  Current liabilities  to  Cash and cash equivalents  representing book overdrafts
that can be offset against deposits with the same financial institution as of that date. This
 change in classification also resulted in an increase of $1.4 million in  Net cash used in financing
activities  in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2004.
These changes in presentation do not reflect a material change to the information presented in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations or the Statements of Cash Flows as previously reported.
This change in classification had no effect on net income or shareholders  equity as previously reported.

F-15

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(u) Recently issued accounting pronouncements 

In May 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections   A Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes ( APB 20 ),
and SFAS No. 3, ( SFAS No. 154 ), which applies to (i) all voluntary changes in accounting
principle and (ii) all changes required by a new accounting pronouncement where no specific
transition provisions are included. SFAS No. 154 requires companies to apply the direct effects of
a change in accounting principle retrospectively to prior periods  financial statements unless
impracticable. APB 20 required companies to recognize most voluntary changes in accounting
principle by including the cumulative effect of the change in net income of the period in which the
change was made. SFAS No. 154 redefines  restatement  as the revising of previously issued
financial statements to reflect the correction of an error. SFAS No. 154 is effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2005, with early adoption permitted for fiscal years beginning
after June 1, 2005. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 154 effective January 1, 2006. The Company
does not expect that its adoption of SFAS No. 154 will have a material impact on its financial
statements.

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payment ( SFAS No.
123R ). SFAS No. 123R requires compensation costs related to share-based payment transactions to
be recognized in the financial statements. With limited exceptions, the amount of the compensation
cost is to be measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity or liability instruments
issued. In addition, liability awards are to be re-measured each reporting period. Compensation
cost will be recognized over the period that an employee provides service in exchange for the
award. SFAS No. 123R is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation ( SFAS
No. 123 ) as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation   Transition and
Disclosure, and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees ( APB 25 ). SFAS No. 123R is effective for public companies as of the first interim
or annual reporting period of the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. Virbac will
adopt SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006 using the modified prospective transition method
which requires that the Company recognize compensation expense for all new and unvested share-based
payment awards from the effective date. Had Virbac adopted SFAS No. 123R in prior
periods, the impact would have approximated the impact of SFAS No. 123 as described in the pro
forma net earnings and earnings per share disclosure in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies,  (r) Employee stock-based compensation   of the  Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.  The ultimate amount of expense associated with the adoption of this pronouncement
will be based, among other things, on grants of stock options vested at the date of adoption and
their fair value at the date of grant. Virbac is still evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No.
123R on its results of operations in 2006 but does not expect it will have a material impact on its
financial statements.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) FAS 109-1, Application of FASB
No. 109, Accounting for Income Tax, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities
Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ( FSP FAS 109-1 ). FSP FAS 109-1 clarifies SFAS
No. 109, Income Taxes s ( SFAS No. 109 ) guidance that applies to the new tax deduction for
qualified domestic production activities. FSP FAS 109-1 became effective upon issuance and did not
have a significant impact on the Company s effective tax rate in 2005.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs ( SFAS No. 151 ). This new
standard amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing, to clarify the
accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted
material. SFAS No. 151 requires that these items be recognized as current-period charges and
requires that

F-16

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

allocation of fixed production overhead to the costs of conversion be based on the
normal capacity of the production facilities. This statement is effective for years beginning after June 15,
2005. The Company does not expect that its adoption of SFAS No. 151 will have a material impact on
its financial statements.

Note 3. Commitments and Contingencies 

Legal Proceedings 

From time to time, Virbac may be involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of its
operations. As of December 31, 2005, Virbac was not a party to any legal proceedings, other than
those discussed below, that are expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material
adverse effect on the Company s business, financial condition or operating results.

Securities Class Action Litigation Settlement 

On December 15, 2003, Martine Williams, a Virbac stockholder, filed a putative securities
class action lawsuit (the  Securities Class Action ) in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Texas, Fort Worth Division, (the  Court ) against Virbac, VBSA, Thomas L. Bell
(the Company s former President, Chief Executive Officer, and member of the Company s Board of
Directors), Joseph A. Rougraff (the Company s former Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and
Secretary), and Pascal Boissy (the former Chairman of the Board of Directors) (Bell, Rougraff, and
Boissy collectively, the  Individual Defendants ). The complaint asserted claims against Virbac
and the Individual Defendants based on securities fraud under Section 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act ( Rule
10b-5 ), and claims against VBSA and the Individual Defendants based on  control person  liability
under Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. On May 19, 2004, the  Williams v. Virbac et al.  lawsuit
was consolidated with a separate lawsuit filed by John Otley, which contained virtually identical
allegations to those claimed by Martine Williams, and the Court appointed lead counsel for the
plaintiffs. On September 10, 2004, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended class action
complaint (the  Amended Complaint ).

On September 15, 2005, the parties entered into a settlement agreement under which Virbac
caused to be paid $3,125,000 into a settlement fund (the  Settlement Fund ) to be distributed to
eligible persons who purchased or otherwise acquired Virbac Common Stock from May 3, 2001 to
November 12, 2003, inclusive (the  Class ). On October 4, 2005, the Court issued an Order
certifying the Class for settlement purposes and granting preliminary approval of the settlement as
set forth in the Settlement Agreement and the proposed plan of allocation. On December 1, 2005,
the Court entered an Order and Final Judgment, which, among other things, found that notice had
been provided to the Class, granted final approval of the settlement as set forth in the Settlement
Agreement and the proposed plan of allocation, awarded attorneys  fees of 30% of the Settlement
Fund and $63,719.10 in expenses to be paid from the Settlement Fund, and dismissed the Securities
Class Action with prejudice as to Virbac and the Individual Defendants. The Court retained
jurisdiction over the Securities Class Action for purposes of administering the settlement.

Separately, the Company has entered into an agreement with its insurance carriers (the
 Insurers ), which provides that the Insurers will fund in full the settlement amount of $3,125,000
set forth in the Settlement Agreement.

F-17

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit 

On February 19, 2004, Richard Hreniuk and Peter Lindell, both Virbac shareholders, filed
separate, similar lawsuits in the Court, derivatively on behalf of the Company against Thomas L.
Bell, Pascal Boissy, Eric Mar e, Pierre A. Pag s, Alec L. Poitevint, II, and Jean No l Willk, all
current or former members of Virbac s Board of Directors, and Joseph A. Rougraff, a former officer
of the Company (collectively, the  Derivative Individual Defendants ) and Virbac, as a nominal defendant.
These two lawsuits have been consolidated (the  Shareholder Derivative Action ), and on December 3,
2004, the Court appointed lead counsel for the plaintiffs. On March 1, 2005, the plaintiffs filed
a consolidated amended shareholder derivative complaint (the  Amended Derivative Complaint ),
asserting claims against: defendants Bell and Rougraff for improper financial reporting under the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( SOX  all Derivative Individual Defendants for gross mismanagement, breach of
fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment; and defendant Boissy for breach
of fiduciary duties due to alleged insider selling and misappropriation of information. Virbac is
named as a nominal defendant in the Amended Derivative Complaint.

On July 25, 2005, the Court s previously entered stay expired without the parties reaching a
settlement. The nominal defendant Virbac and the Derivative Individual Defendants filed motions to dismiss
the Amended Derivative Complaint on August 15, 2005. The plaintiffs  opposition brief was filed on
September 29, 2005, and defendants  reply briefs were filed on October 24, 2005.

On November 7, 2005, the parties reached a settlement in principle with respect to plaintiffs 
substantive claims and filed a notice advising the Court of the settlement in principle and
requesting that the Court hold in abeyance any rulings on the pending motions to dismiss. The
settlement in principle was subject to the execution of a written settlement agreement and court
approval. After further negotiations and an additional mediation session, the parties were unable
to agree on the definitive terms of the settlement. On December 8, 2005, the Court was notified
that a definitive settlement could not be reached and was requested to reinstate the defendants 
motions to dismiss. On December 15, 2005, the Court issued an
order reinstating the defendants  motions to dismiss.

On December 20, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a Motion for Leave to File a Second Amended
Complaint (the  Second Amended Derivative Complaint ). The plaintiffs  proposed Second Amended
Derivative Complaint includes the derivative claims described above and seeks to add a cause of
action on behalf of the plaintiffs and a putative class of Virbac shareholders against Virbac s
current board of directors (including Richard W. Pickert and Michel Garaudet, who were not named
defendants in the Amended Derivative Complaint) and VBSA for breach of fiduciary duties relating to
VBSA s proposal to acquire Virbac s remaining outstanding shares for $4.15 per share. The proposed
Second Amended Derivative Complaint seeks various forms of relief, including preliminarily and
permanently enjoining the proposed sale of Virbac shares to VBSA unless and until the Company
adopts and implements a procedure to obtain the highest possible price for Virbac shareholders,
including the formation of an independent special committee to evaluate the proposal, money
damages, including rescissory damages to the extent that the sale has taken place, and the awarding
of the plaintiffs  attorneys  fees and costs.

On January 12, 2006, the Court granted the plaintiffs  Motion for Leave to File a Second
Amended Complaint. On March 20, 2006, in light of the plaintiffs  filing of the Second Amended
Derivative Complaint, the Court denied the defendants previously filed motions to dismiss as moot.
However, these motions to dismiss can be refiled as to the Second Amended Derivative Complaint. On
March 20, 2006, the Court also entered a scheduling order (the  Scheduling Order ) under which the
Court set forth various deadlines, including a deadline for the completion of discovery by
September 29, 2006. In the Scheduling Order, the Court noted that if the parties believe that the
case should not

F-18

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

proceed at this time in light of the possibility of a tender offer, it would
entertain a motion for stay and administrative closure of the action, or similar motion.

While the Company intends to vigorously defend itself, the Company cannot predict the final
outcome of the Shareholder Derivative Action at this time. An unfavorable outcome could have a
material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition and liquidity in the event that final
settlement amounts and/or judgment exceeds the limits of the Company s insurance policies or the
Insurers decline to fund such final settlement/judgment. To date, the Company s Insurers have
provided coverage for the submitted expenses incurred in defending the Shareholder Derivative
Action as a claim under the relevant policies.

SEC Investigation 

On January 13, 2005, the Company announced it had received a written  Wells Notice  from the
staff of the SEC. The Wells Notice indicated that the staff intended to recommend to the SEC that
it authorize an enforcement action against the Company alleging that the Company violated certain
provisions of the federal securities laws.

In December 2005, the Company and the staff of the SEC s Fort Worth District Office reached a
revised agreement in principal to settle this matter (the  December 2005 Agreement ). The December
2005 Agreement differs from the earlier settlement agreement disclosed in previous filings which
included a civil money penalty and disgorgement of $500,000 and $1, respectively. The December
2005 Agreement includes the following principal terms:

without admitting or denying the SEC s allegations, the Company would agree to a
stipulated judgment enjoining the Company from future violations of various provisions of
the federal securities laws; 

the Company would agree to undertakings requiring the Company to implement annual
training programs and internal certifications for certain personnel concerning accounting,
compliance and regulatory matters; and 

the Company would not be required to pay a civil money penalty or disgorgement. 

The December 2005 Agreement is subject to final approval by the SEC, and no assurance can be given that this matter will be settled consistent with the proposed terms, accordingly,
 the Company has not reversed the $500,000 accrual as of December 31, 2005. The Company continues to cooperate with the SEC in this matter.

Lawsuit Against Tender Offer Proposal

On
December 13, 2005, the Company announced that VBSA had made a
proposal to acquire the 39.7% outstanding Common Stock not already
owned by VBSA or its subsidiaries for $4.15 per share in cash,
representing an aggregate all-cash purchase price of approximately
$37.0 million (the   Tender Offer Proposal ).

On January 18, 2006, Richard Abrons, Myron Cohn and Martin Cohn filed a lawsuit in the Delaware Court of Chancery in New Castle County (the  Delaware Court ) in their individual capacities and as a purported class action on behalf of the Company s
 public shareholders against Eric Mar e, Pierre A. Pag s,
Michel Garaudet, Alec L. Poitevint, II, Jean No l Willk, Richard W. Pickert and Virbac
 Corporation, VBSA and Interlab. The lawsuit asserts claims against
defendants VBSA, Interlab, Mar e,  Pag s and Garaudet for breach of fiduciary duty of loyalty and unfair dealing, and defendants Willk, Poitevint, II and Pickert for breach of fiduciary duties of care and good faith. The plaintiffs seek
certification of the purported class, a preliminary and permanent injunction against the consummation of the Tender Offer Proposal, an order declaring the Tender Offer Proposal void and rescinding the Tender Offer Proposal, if it is consummated, disgorgement of any profits or property received by the defendants
as a result of their alleged wrongful conduct, unspecified money damages plus interest
thereon against all defendants (jointly and severally), attorneys  fees and expenses
incurred in connection with the lawsuit, and such other and further relief that the Delaware Court
may deem just and proper. The defendants believe that this lawsuit is without merit and intend to
vigorously defend this matter. See Note 15.   Related Party
Transactions for  for further discussion of the Tender Offer
Proposal.

Operating Leases 

The Company leases certain machinery under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at
various dates through September 2011. Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating
leases as of December 31, 2005 are as follows:

F-19

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Total rent expense under operating leases was $127,000, $153,000, and $163,000 in 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively.

Environmental Liability 

PMR is the subject of a Consent Order dated November 22, 1999, issued by the Circuit Court of
St. Louis County, Missouri ( Consent Order ), requiring investigation and remediation of historical
contamination at its Bridgeton, Missouri property. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $635,000
of investigative and remediation costs have been incurred for which the Company has been or will be
reimbursed pursuant to a third party indemnity obligation. The Company estimates that future
investigative and remediation costs are approximately $279,000 through December 31, 2007, which is
when remediation is expected to be complete. The Company expects substantially all of the
remaining investigative and remediation costs will be reimbursed under the terms of the indemnity
agreement, which is a formal and legally enforceable agreement, except for $22,000, which
represents the Company s estimated remaining portion of the liability and is included in the
Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005. Management believes that PMR is
currently in substantial compliance with all applicable local, state and federal environmental laws
and regulations and resolution of the environmental issues contained in the Consent Order will have
no material effect on the Company s financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.

Adjustment of the Merger Shares 

In order to maintain VBSA s indirect 60% ownership interest in the Company through Interlab
S.A.S., a French corporation ( Interlab ), until the expiration, termination, or exercise of all
options to purchase the Common Stock outstanding as of the date of the merger, as described in Note
1.  Description of Business , the Company will contemporaneously, with the issuance of Common Stock
upon the exercise of pre-merger Company options issue to Interlab a number of additional shares of
Common Stock equal to the product of, (a) the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issued
upon the exercise of such Company options and (b) 1.5. Each such post-merger adjustment will
dilute the voting power of current shareholders. As of December 31, 2005, 65,000 pre-merger options
were outstanding. As a result of the exercise of 59,000 and 39,889  pre-Merger
options in 2005 and 2003, respectively, 88,500 and 59,834 shares owed to Interlab
were issued in January 2006 and October 2005, respectively. These shares have been included in the
calculation of diluted earnings per share. No new shares will be issued to Interlab in the event
that treasury shares are reissued to satisfy these Merger obligations because the use of treasury
shares does not dilute VBSA s indirect ownership interest.

F-20

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

During 2003, the Company purchased 100% of the outstanding shares of the common stock of
Delmarva Laboratories, Inc. ( Delmarva ) for a base purchase price of $2.5 million in cash and an
additional contingent purchase consideration of up to
$2.5 million. In accordance with SFAS No. 141, the Company
accounted for this transaction under the purchase method and recorded
a liability of approximately $2.2 million which represents the excess
of the estimated fair value of the acquired net assets over the
initial cash payment. The purchase agreement provides
that the contingent consideration will be paid in increments based upon the achievement of several
performance thresholds of the products purchased. The various stated performance thresholds
include the registration and revenue goals for one of the product rights purchased, and gross
profit milestones within a specified time period for the other product rights purchased.

During the first quarter of 2005, one of the contingency thresholds was met and accordingly, a
contingency payment of $250,000 was made by the Company to the prior
shareholders of Delmarva. A proportionate amount of the
contingent payment was recorded as a reduction to the liability related to contingent consideration
in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
December 31, 2005 and the remaining amount paid was recorded as
an increase in the cost of the acquired entity. During the fourth quarter
of 2005, the performance evaluation period for another contingency payment expired and the
threshold was not met. Consequently, the Company reduced the liability related to this contingent
consideration for a proportionate amount and recorded a corresponding decrease to the carrying amount of the
respective intangible product right.

See Note 4.
  Acquisitions  for additional discussion regarding the
contingent consideration recorded in connection with the Delmarva purchase.

Note 4. Acquisitions 

During 2003, the Company completed two acquisitions in order to expand its pharmaceutical
product offerings, leverage its distribution channel and increase its overall product portfolio.
These acquisitions are discussed below.

Delmarva Acquisition 

On August 15, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of Delmarva. Delmarva s product
portfolio includes Euthasol  and Pentasol , both of which are humane euthanasia products, and
Biomox  (amoxicillin) tablets and suspension. The Company also received as part of the Delmarva
acquisition, the FDA product registrations for Clintabs    tablets and Clinsol    liquid,
which are products containing the antibiotic clindamycin. The Company determined that all of the
product rights acquired are finite-lived intangible assets with no residual values and assigned an
initial estimated weighted-average amortization period of 32 years.

As
discussed above in Note 3.  Commitments and Contingencies ,
the Company paid a base purchase price of approximately $2.5 million
in cash and an additional contingent purchase consideration of up to
$2.5 million for Delmarva. The purchase price also included $0.1
million in transaction costs. The aggregate fair value of the assets
acquired was $4.8 million. In accordance with
SFAS No. 141, the Company accounted for this transaction under the purchase method and, at the date
of acquisition, recorded a liability of approximately $2.2 million for the excess of the estimated
fair value of the acquired net assets over the initial cash payment. As the contingencies resolve,
any amounts paid related to the contingencies will reduce the liability booked at the acquisition
date and amounts paid in excess of the liability will be reflected as
an increase in the cost of the acquired entity. Any
remaining liabilities after all contingencies resolve will be allocated as a pro rata reduction of
the amounts assigned to the assets acquired with any amounts that remain after reducing those
assets to zero recognized as an extraordinary gain. See Note 3  Commitments and Contingencies  for
additional information regarding these contingencies.

In accordance with SFAS No 141, the results of operations of Delmarva are included in the
Company s consolidated financial statements beginning August 15, 2003. The Delmarva acquisition

F-21

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

was funded with existing cash and with borrowings under Virbac s Credit Agreement with First Bank,
dated as of September 7, 1999, as amended (the  Credit Agreement ).

The following table summarizes the estimated fair market value, as determined by independent
valuations and supported by internal studies, of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at
the date of acquisition:

King Acquisition 

On September 8, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of assets relating to the animal
health products of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( King ) for a purchase price of $15.2 million in
cash. The acquired assets include certain product assets, unfilled customer orders, inventories,
manufacturing equipment and intellectual property. The product portfolio includes SOLOXINE , a
leader in canine thyroid hormone replacement, Pancrezyme , Tumil-K , Uroeze  and Ammonil . The
Company determined that all of the product rights acquired are finite lived intangible assets with
no residual values and assigned an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 24 years.

The acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase business combination and resulted in
goodwill of $745,000. Accordingly, the results of operations of King are included in the Company s
financial statements beginning September 8, 2003. The acquisition was funded with cash on hand and
additional borrowings under the Company s Credit Agreement.

The following table summarizes the estimated fair value, as determined by independent
valuations and supported by internal studies, of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at
the date of acquisition:

In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangibles, ( SFAS No. 142 ),
goodwill recorded in the King acquisition, which is deductible for income tax purposes, will not be
amortized. The goodwill is tested annually for impairment.

Note 5. Facility Closure 

In the first quarter of 2003, the Company closed its leased Harbor City, California
manufacturing facility and moved the production at that facility to its Fort Worth, Texas facility.
The

F-22

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Harbor City facility manufactured primarily oral hygiene products. The costs to close the
facility were approximately $333,000 and consisted principally of leasehold improvement write-offs,
as well as costs to transfer existing equipment and inventory to the Fort Worth facility. These
costs were recorded in sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses of the
Veterinary and Consumer Brand segments during the first and second quarters of 2003, when the
liability to close the plant was incurred.

Note 6. Inventories 

Inventories consist of the following:

Note 7. Property, Plant and Equipment, net 

Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:

In each of 2005, 2004 and 2003, depreciation expense was approximately $1.4 million.

Note 8. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 

The Company has intangible assets which consist primarily of products rights obtained in
connection with acquisitions and licensing agreements, patents and trademarks. Additionally, the
Company has goodwill, all of which pertains to the Veterinary segment.

Intangible assets consist of the following:

F-23

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

During 2003, in connection with the acquisitions described in Note 4.  Acquisitions , the
Company acquired $18.4 million of product rights, all of which
have finite lives and are subject to
amortization. The Company also recorded a liability related to contingent consideration of $2.2
million in connection with the Delmarva acquisition and $0.7 million of goodwill in connection with
the assets purchased from King.

During 2004, additions to intangible assets principally related to product licenses and
trademarks. There were no additions to intangible assets during 2005.

All of the Company s goodwill is generated by the Veterinary segment and the change in goodwill during 2005 is as follows:

Refer to Note 12.  Income Taxes  for a discussion of the recognition of Agri-Nutrition
deferred tax assets.

The Company performed its annual impairment tests on goodwill during the fourth quarter of
2005 and 2004 and found no evidence of impairment.

The following table summarizes the impairment charges for intangible assets recorded by the
Company for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

F-24

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

The 2005 impairment charge includes $0.8 million related to the impairment of a product right
acquired in connection with the acquisition of Delmarva. In the third quarter of 2005, the Company
determined that the intangible product right for Clindamycin was impaired. The Company reached
this assessment following a comprehensive evaluation of external market data, which confirmed a
decrease in the size of the market as a result of a significant competitor s effort to shift the
market to its broader spectrum product. While the Clindamycin product category has a revised
remaining life of 20 years, management believes the Company s ability to counter the new market
conditions and its current estimated cash flow projections, based upon re-forecasted revenues and
gross margins, are not sufficient to offset the changed market conditions which management believes
are permanent. Accordingly, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $0.8 million in
the third quarter of 2005 to its Consolidated Statement of Operations that represents the
difference between the current estimated fair market value of the product right based upon its
estimated discounted cash flows and the current carrying value of the product right prior to the
impairment charge.

Amortization expense for 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $1.0 million, $1.4 million, and $0.8 million,
respectively. Amortization expense for each of the next five years is expected to be as follows:

Note 9. Borrowings Under Revolving Line of Credit and Notes Payable 

At December 31, 2005, the Credit Agreement provided for funding of up to $15.0 million, the
availability of which is determined by a borrowing-base formula equal to a specified percentage of
the value of the Company s eligible accounts receivable and inventory plus an assigned value to
both its Bridgeton, Missouri and Fort Worth, Texas facilities. The accounts receivable, inventory,
equipment and intangibles of the Company, as well as the real property of the Bridgeton and Fort
Worth facilities, are pledged as collateral under the Credit Agreement and interest accrues at the
prime rate, as defined by the Credit Agreement ( Prime ) plus   1  / 2 %. At December 31, 2005 and 2004,
the interest rate on the loans under the Credit Agreement was 7.75% and 6.25%, respectively. The
current maturity date of the Credit Agreement is March 31, 2007. There was a $215,000 letter of
credit outstanding under the Credit

F-25

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Agreement at December 31, 2005, which is securitized by a
Certificate of Deposit in the amount of $220,000 that is recorded in the Company s other noncurrent
assets. At December 31, 2005, the total borrowings under the Credit
Agreement were $6.0 million,
availability was $7.2 million. The Company was in compliance
with all covenants, except for the requirement to deliver budgeted
fiscal 2006 financial statements no later than December 1, 2005 for
which the Company received a waiver, in connection with an extension
of the current maturity date of the Credit Agreement.

In order to reduce the amount outstanding under the Credit Agreement and provide for operating
cash requirements, the Company, in April 2004, executed a $3.0 million and a $4.0 million secured
subordinated promissory note (the  April Notes ), and on June 3, 2004, executed a $2.0 million
secured subordinated promissory note (the  June Note ) all in favor of VBSA (collectively the  VBSA
Notes ). The VBSA Notes are subordinate to the indebtedness of Virbac under the Credit Agreement
and are secured by all the assets of the Company as defined in the Credit Agreement. The total
borrowings under the VBSA Notes are $9.0 million and interest accrues at a base rate of 5.0% per
year, which is adjusted monthly based on the greater of the LIBOR Reference Rate or the EURIBOR
Reference Rate. The interest rate on the VBSA Notes as of December 31, 2005 was 8.20%. The
current maturity date for the April Notes is April 9, 2007 and the current maturity date of the
June Note is April 9, 2006.

The Company s cash requirements during 2004, and continuing into early 2005, were unusually
high due to elevated legal fees associated with the internal investigation initiated by the Audit
Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the  Audit Committee ) in late 2003, the restatement
and related audits of the Company s historical financial statements ( Restatement ), the SEC
investigation and the shareholder lawsuits. The Company funded these additional cash requirements
from operating cash flows, the VBSA Notes and insurance coverage provided by its directors and
officers  insurance policy.

As discussed in Note 3.  Commitments and Contingencies , Virbac has reached a settlement
agreement in principal with both the SEC in regards to their investigation and the plaintiffs in
the putative shareholder class action lawsuit. As a result,
the Company is able to estimate the cash requirements necessary to resolve these significant
uncertainties. The Company generated income from operations and a cash inflow from operating
activities for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and has also successfully maintained its
lending relationships. Further, the unusual cash requirements related to the Restatement , the SEC
investigation and the shareholder lawsuits have subsided in the second half of 2005 and the
Company s results of operations have improved as a result of the King and Delmarva acquisitions and
increased heartworm preventative product revenues. Management believes that all of these
aforementioned factors have
resulted in a stronger financial position for the Company and provide it with the necessary
liquidity to fund operating activities in the ordinary course.

Note 10. Common Stock Transactions and Preferred Stock 

Under certain anti-dilution provisions of the merger described in Note 3.  Commitments and
Contingencies , the Company was required to issue  88,500 and 59,834 shares of Common
Stock to Interlab due to the issuance of  59,000 and 39,889 shares of Common Stock
from the exercise of pre-merger options during 2005 and 2003, respectively. The 88,500 shares were
issued in January 2006, and the 59,834 shares were issued in October 2005, and have been included
in the calculation of diluted earnings per share. During 2003, the Company also issued 9,000
shares of Common Stock to certain directors as part of their compensation for serving on the
Company s Board of Directors. The Company charges as expense the closing value of the shares on
the date they are granted to the directors. The shares granted to the directors dilute earnings
per share. The Company had several treasury stock transactions related to the issuance and
purchase of shares of stock associated with the activity of its Incentive Stock Option Plan and for
compensation to directors during 2003.

F-26

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

The Company s Board of Directors may, without further action by shareholders, from
time-to-time, direct the issuance of one or more series of preferred stock and may, at the time of
issuance, determine the rights, preferences and limitations of each series. No shares of preferred
stock have been issued as of December 31, 2005.

Note 11. Stock Options 

As of December 31, 2005, the Company has stock options outstanding under the 1994 Incentive
Stock Plan, which is inactive with respect to new option grants, and the Virbac Corporation
Incentive Stock Plan (collectively, the  Incentive Stock Plans ), which became inactive with
respect to new option grants on March 7, 2005. Under the terms of the Company s Incentive Stock
Plans, officers and certain other employees were granted options to purchase the Common Stock at
the closing market price on the date that the option was granted.

For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, no options were granted under the Incentive
Stock Plans. Options generally vest over three years and have a maximum term of ten years.

A summary of the Incentive Stock Plans  activity for the years shown is as follows:

F-27

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes information for stock options outstanding and exercisable at
December 31, 2005:

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-28

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 12. Income Taxes 

The Company has recognized a net income tax provision as follows:

A reconciliation of the tax provision recorded for all periods presented to the amount
computed using the applicable federal statutory income tax rate, is as follows:

Due to significant historical operating losses through 2003, the Company has maintained a
valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets. GAAP requires that historical operating
performance weigh significantly in assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets. The Company
assesses the realizability of its deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis and will eliminate the
valuation allowance when warranted based on sustained profitable operating results.

As a result of the deferred tax valuation allowance, as the Company incurs tax expense or
benefit, an offsetting decrease or increase is recorded to the valuation allowance. In
accordance with SFAS No. 109, Income Taxes, if a valuation allowance is recognized in connection
with the deferred tax assets of an acquired entity s deductible temporary differences, the tax
benefits for those items are first recognized as a reduction of goodwill
related to the acquisition. In addition, when an entity realizes, by reversal of a valuation
allowance, previously unrecognized net operating losses that resulted in part from stock option
deductions, the windfall stock option deduction should be realized through a charge to

F-29

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

additional paid-in capital. Any excess reversal of the valuation
allowance results in an income tax benefit.

In 2005, the Company fully utilized all of its Federal net operating loss carryforwards. As a
result, the Company recognized the deferred tax asset related to the net operating loss
carryforward through the release of a portion of its valuation allowance. The portion of the
valuation allowance attributable to the Agri-Nutrition s deductible temporary differences was
applied first to reduce goodwill related to the acquisition. Next, the portion of the valuation
allowance attributable to windfall stock option deductions embedded in the net operating loss
carryforwards was recorded as a charge to additional paid-in capital. Finally, any excess release
of the valuation allowance resulted in a reduction to income tax expense.

In
2004, the Company recognized deferred tax assets and accordingly, the
portion attributable to Agri-Nutrition deferred tax assets was
recorded as a reduction to goodwill, which resulted in deferred tax
expense. State income tax expense was also recognized in the 2004 tax
provision. The tax provision recorded by the Company in 2003
represents Federal alternative minimum tax expense and state income
tax expense.

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the
deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented below:

Of the $6.2 million valuation allowance at December 31, 2005, approximately $0.5 million
relates to the Company s purchase of Agri-Nutrition. If the
Company subsequently recognizes tax benefits associated with this
$6.2 million valuation allowance, approximately
$0.5 million will be released as a reduction of goodwill, and
the remainder will represent an income tax benefit.

The Company has available general business tax credit and alternative minimum tax credit
carryforwards totaling approximately $0.3 million. The general business tax credits expire in the
years 2006 to 2021; the alternative minimum tax carryforwards may be carried forward indefinitely.

F-30

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 13. Employee Savings Plans 

The Company sponsors two 401(k) savings plans (the  Plans ) for its employees. Former
employees of Virbac, Inc. and non-union former employees of Agri-Nutrition participate in the
Virbac Corporation Retirement Savings Plan, while union employees of PMR participate in the Virbac
Corporation Retirement Savings Plan for Certain Union Members. Substantially all employees of the
Company may participate in one of the Plans, subject to certain eligibility and entry requirements.
Contributions to the Plans result primarily from voluntary contributions from employees in the form
of deferrals of up to 15% or 20% of the employees  salaries, depending upon the Plan. The Plans
permit various employer contributions. Employer contributions were $630,000, $608,000, and
$479,000, for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Note 14. Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited) 

The following selected quarterly data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements. This information has been derived from the unaudited interim consolidated
financial statements of Virbac that, in management s opinion, reflect all recurring adjustments
necessary to fairly present the Company s financial information when read in conjunction with the
Annual Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto.

The results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be
expected for any future period. Additionally, under accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States, the quarterly computation of earnings per share is calculated on a discrete
period basis, and therefore, the sum of the basic and fully diluted earnings per share number for
each of the four quarters in a year may not equal full-year basic and diluted earnings per share.

The table below details unaudited quarterly results for each quarter for the last two years:

F-31

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(1)     The quarterly results for
the three months ended June 30, 2005, reflect the seasonal impact of
increased revenues from the Company s heartworm preventative product category principally  because of a voluntary recall of a major
 competitive heartworm preventative product in September 2004.

Note 15. Related Party Transactions 

In the ordinary course of business, the Company has engaged in various transactions with VBSA,
which indirectly owns approximately 60% of its Common Stock, the terms of which may or may not be
the same as those with wholly unrelated parties. The significant transactions with VBSA and its
related affiliates as of and for the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, are
summarized below.

Tender
Offer Proposal 

As
discussed in Note 3.  Commitments and Contingencies , on
December 15, 2005, VBSA made a Tender Offer Proposal to acquire
the 39.7% outstanding Common Stock not already owned by VBSA for
$4.15 per share. VBSA stated in the Tender Offer Proposal that
it expects that the Board of Directors of Virbac will form a special
committee of independent directors to respond to VBSA s Tender
Offer Proposal on behalf of Virbac s public shareholders and to
make an informed recommendation to the public shareholders with
respect to the offer. VBSA also stated that it is prepared to
negotiate the terms of a definitive offer to the shareholders of
Virbac on customary terms and conditions for transactions of this
type. The Tender Offer Proposal stated that the definitive offer
would be subject to the condition that a sufficient majority of the
Common Stock is tendered such that the tendered shares, together
with the shares VBSA currently owns, total at least 90% (ninety
percent) of the Common Stock. VBSA has informed Virbac that it has
sufficient financing available for the transaction under its existing
bank credit facilities and that the offer would not be subject to a
financing condition.

On
March 14, 2006, the Company announced the formation of a special
committee of independent directors (the  Special
Committee ) to review, evaluate and negotiate VBSA s Tender
Offer Proposal. The Special Committee has engaged outside financial
advisors to assist in this process. The Special Committee is further
authorized to negotiate the terms of VBSA s proposal and to make
a recommendation to the Company s Board of Directors and/or its
public stockholders as to whether to accept VBSA s proposal or
any other proposal made by VBSA and/or its affiliates to acquire the
Common Stock held by public stockholders.

Loan Agreements 

In the first half of 2004, Virbac executed the VBSA Notes as discussed in Note 9.  Borrowings
Under Revolving Line of Credit and Notes Payable , which are three secured subordinated promissory
notes totaling $9.0 million in favor of VBSA. The VBSA Notes are subordinate to the indebtedness of
Virbac under the Credit Agreement and are secured by all the assets of the Company as defined in
the Credit Agreement. The base interest rate is 5.0% per annum and is adjusted monthly based on the greater
of the LIBOR Reference Rate or the EURIBOR Reference Rate, in accordance with the terms of the VBSA
Notes. The maturity date of the April Notes, which total $7.0 million, is April 9, 2007 and the
maturity date of the June Note for $2.0 million is April 9, 2006. The Company s interest expense on
the VBSA Notes was $692,000 in 2005.

Directors and Officers Insurance Procurement Agreement 

VBSA acquired a 2004 directors  and officers  insurance policy for VBSA and the Company (the
 D O Policy ). The coverage limit for all named insureds under the D O Policy was $5.0 million and
the annual premium for such policy was $629,000. The Company paid 75% of this annual premium which was approved by the Audit Committee. The policy term was for one year and expired on January 1,
2005.

Trademark Agreement 

On April 2, 2003, the Company and VBSA agreed to allow each other, at no charge, the right of
first refusal for use of their respective trademarks. The Company and VBSA have agreed to keep each
other informed of any trademarks they maintain. While the Company and VBSA are currently honoring
the terms of this arrangement, a formal written agreement has not yet been entered into. The
Company expects to execute a formal written agreement in the near future.

Supply Agreement 

On March 1, 2002, the Company entered into a supply agreement with VBSA pursuant to which VBSA
agreed to manufacture, register, supply and provide quality assurance for certain specified health
products containing regulated pesticides. Purchases under the supply agreement are at agreed upon
rates subject to annual inflation adjustments. This agreement is scheduled to remain in force
until February 28, 2007, unless terminated earlier by a written mutual consent of both parties.
During 2005, 2004 and 2003 the Company paid VBSA $0.6 million, $0.5 million, and $1.5 million,
respectively for products received under the supply agreement.

F-32

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Development and License Agreement 

On January 21, 2001, the Company entered into an agreement with VBSA to govern the
apportionment of research and development costs, grant certain licenses and require the payment of
royalties for existing and new products. This development and license agreement was in effect
until

December 31, 2004, and thereafter automatically renews for additional one-year terms unless
terminated by written notice not less than 90 days prior to the beginning of any new one-year
term. Under the terms of the development and license agreement, VBSA provides the Company with the
exclusive rights, in the United States and Canada, to sell specified products that are currently in
development or that were previously developed by VBSA. As consideration for the grant of certain
licenses and the payment of research and development costs by VBSA, the Company shall pay VBSA a
royalty of 6% of the net sales of certain existing products sold by the Company in the United
States and Canada. In addition, the Company and VBSA provided each other with mutual licenses with
respect to the sale, manufacture and distribution of certain newly developed products. The
licensee, whether such licensee is the Company or VBSA, shall pay the licensor a royalty equal to
3% of the licensee s net sales of and licensing revenues from generic new products (as defined in
the agreement) and a royalty equal to 6% of the licensee s net sales of and licensing revenues from
proprietary new products (as defined in the agreement). In 2005, 2004 and 2003 the Company paid
approximately $210,000, $184,000, and $61,000, respectively in royalty payments to VBSA and VBSA
made no royalty payments to the Company. The development and license agreement was amended to
provide that Virbac pay a royalty of 2.5% on the net sales of livestock de-wormer products
beginning January 1, 2002.

License Agreement   Pyriproxyfen 

On September 29, 2000, the Company entered into a license agreement with VBSA in order to
grant VBSA a license of the U.S. patent rights of Virbac in the use of Pyriproxyfen ( PPF ) as an
ingredient in certain dog or cat foods. The Company granted to VBSA an exclusive license with the
right to grant sublicenses to manufacture, use, distribute and sell PPF as an ingredient in dog and
cat foods under U.S. Patent numbers 5,439,924 and 5,728,719 in the United States. In consideration
for the license, VBSA agreed to pay the Company $80,000 upon its entrance into any sublicense
agreement and an additional 40% of all cash payments received from any such sub licensee at the
time of registration approval and launch of the PPF product. In addition, the license agreement
requires VBSA to pay the Company 1.2% of the PPF product s net sales made through the Veterinary
sales channel and 0.8% of the net sales made through the over-the-counter sales channel. The
license agreement remains in effect until the expiration date of the last patent held in the United
States, or until terminated by either VBSA or the Company. During 2005, 2004 and 2003 the Company
received no royalty payments from VBSA.

Distribution Agreement 

On December 3, 1999, the Company entered into a distribution agreement appointing VBSA and its
affiliates as the sole and exclusive distributor of the Company s current and future range of
specified pet health care products for all channels of trade worldwide other than the United States
and Canada. The terms of the distribution agreement provide that the Company agrees to manufacture
the products and VBSA agrees to use its best efforts to promote, sell and distribute the Company s
products internationally. In addition, the Company can distribute directly to certain customers at
the election of VBSA. On December 2, 2004, the distribution agreement automatically renewed for a
second 5-year term. The current terms of the distribution agreement provide that VBSA s purchase
price of products be fixed at 12.6% over the Company s current cost. Virbac recorded approximately
$1.2 million in product sales to VBSA and its affiliates under the distribution agreement during
each of 2005, 2004 and 2003.

F-33

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Sub License Agreement 

On April 5, 1999, the Company and VBSA entered into a Sub License Agreement pursuant to which
VBSA granted Virbac the right to manufacture and market products that VBSA has licensed from
Capulis S.A., an unrelated French corporation. Products subject to this agreement include
micro-encapsulation processes applicable to veterinary products for dogs, cats, fish and veterinary dental care.
Pursuant to this agreement, Virbac pays a 2% royalty to VBSA on net sales of the products that
utilize this technology. During 2005, 2004 and 2003 Virbac made approximately $101,000, $74,000,
and $86,000 in royalty payments to VBSA under the terms of this agreement.

Secrecy Agreements 

The Company has entered into various Secrecy Agreements with VBSA whereby the Company agrees
to keep confidential any information disclosed to it by VBSA with regard to certain products and
applications. The agreement terms are indefinite or expire when the confidential information is
made available by its owner to the public.

Note 16. Segment and Related Information 

The Company has three reportable segments described above in Note 1,  Description of
Business . Each segment uses the accounting policies described in Note 2.  Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies . In evaluating segment performance (excluding Contract Manufacturing),
management focuses on income from operations. Accounts receivable are allocated by segment while
all other assets remain unallocated. Management separately monitors the Contract Manufacturing
results and total assets.

The Company s reportable segments utilize different channels of distribution, are managed
separately, sell different products and have different marketing strategies.

Summarized financial information concerning the Company s reportable segments is shown in the
following table:

F-34

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

During 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company sold its products in the U.S. and Canada. The Company
also recognizes export sales for product sold to VBSA affiliates outside of North America. All
property owned by the Company is located in the United States.

The following table presents revenue by country based on location of the customer:

F-35

Table of Contents   

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
SCHEDULE II   RULE 12-09 
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES 
DECEMBER 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 

VIRBAC CORPORATION 
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES 
Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 

(In thousands)  

(1) 
       
     During the year inventory was removed from stock and destroyed. 

(2) 
       
     Accounts receivable were written off during the year because they were deemed to be
uncollectible. 

(3) 
       
     Refunds for customer returns and billing adjustments were allowed against customer
receivable amounts. 

(4) 
       
     Customer product replaced upon expiration.

(5) 

Change in the deferred tax asset valuation. 

(6) 

Amount was reclassified to an accrued expense account. 

(7) 

Realization of deferred tax assets related to Agri-Nutrition. 

(8) 
       
     Realization of deferred tax assets related to Agri-Nutrition and stock option
transactions. 

F-36

Table of Contents   

Index to Exhibits  

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents   

Incorporation  

Exhibit  

by Reference  

Number  
       
      Description of Document  
       
      (if applicable)  

10.35

Secured Subordinated Promissory Note for $4,000,000 by and among
Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc.,
Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories,
Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated April 29, 2004.

(14); Ex. 10.15 

10.36

Secured Subordinated Promissory Note for $2,000,000 by and among
Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc.,
Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories,
Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated June 3, 2004.

(14); Ex. 10.19 

10.37

First Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note Dated as of
April 9, 2004 by and among Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St.
JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc.,
Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated March 24, 2005.

(14); Ex. 10.23 

10.38

First Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note Dated as of
April 29, 2004 by and among Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc.,
St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH,
Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated March 24,
2005.

(14); Ex. 10.24 

10.39

First Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note Dated as of
June 3, 2004 by and among Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St.
JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc.,
Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated March 24, 2005.

(14); Ex. 10.25 

10.40

Acknowledgment of Extended Maturity Date by Virbac S.A., dated June
3, 2004.

(14); Ex. 10.18 

10.41

Acknowledgment of 2005 Extended Maturity Date by Virbac S.A.,
dated February 8, 2005.

(14); Ex. 10.22 

10.42

Second Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note Dated as
of April 9, 2004 by and among Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc.,
St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH,
Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated August 2,
2005.

(17); Ex. 10.41 

10.43

Second Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note Dated as
of April 29, 2004 by and among Virbac Corporation, PM Resources,
Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac
AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated August 2,
2005.

(17); Ex 10.42 

10.44

Second Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note Dated as
of June 3, 2004 by and among Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc.,
St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH,
Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated August 2,
2005.

(17); Ex 10.43 

10.45

Third Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note Dated as
of April 9, 2004 by and among Virbac Corporation, PM Resources, Inc.,
St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH,
Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated March 7,
2006.

Table of Contents   

Incorporation  

Exhibit  

by Reference  

Number  
       
      Description of Document  
       
      (if applicable)  

10.46

Third Amendment to Secured Subordinated Promissory Note Dated as
of April 29, 2004 by and among Virbac Corporation, PM Resources,
Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories, Inc., Virbac
AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A., dated March 7,
2006.

10.47

Amendment to Subordination Agreement as of April 9, 2004, by and
between VIRBAC, S.A., a business organized under the laws of the
Republic of France and First Bank, dated August 22, 2005.

(17); Ex 10.44 

10.48

Forbearance Agreement by and among Virbac Corporation, PM
Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories,
Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and First Bank,
dated April 9, 2004.

(14); Ex. 10.16 

10.49

Amendment to Forbearance Agreement by and among Virbac
Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex
Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and
First Bank, dated May 10, 2004.

(14); Ex. 10.17 

10.50

Second Amendment to Forbearance Agreement by and among Virbac
Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex
Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and
First Bank, dated August 9, 2004.

(14); Ex. 10.20 

10.51

Third Amendment to Forbearance Agreement by and among Virbac
Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex
Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and
First Bank, dated February 7, 2005.

(14); Ex. 10.21 

10.52

Amendment to Forbearance Agreement Dated as of April 9, 2004 to
Amend Delivery of Audited Financial Statements by and among Virbac
Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex
Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and
Virbac, S.A., dated April 1, 2005.

(14); Ex. 10.26 

10.53

Waiver of 2001 and 2002 Financial Covenant Defaults and Amendment
to Forbearance Agreement Dated as of April 9, 2004 to Amend Delivery
of Audited Financial Statements by and among Virbac Corporation, PM
Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex Laboratories,
Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and Virbac, S.A.,
dated April 15, 2005.

(14); Ex. 10.27 

10.54

Fifth Amendment to Forbearance Agreement by and among Virbac
Corporation, PM Resources, Inc., St. JON Laboratories, Inc., Francodex
Laboratories, Inc., Virbac AH, Inc., Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., and
First Bank, dated May 6, 2005.

(16); Ex. 10.1 

14.1

Virbac Corporation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.

(15); Ex. 14.1 

21.1

Subsidiaries of Virbac Corporation.

(15); Ex. 21.1 

23.1

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

31.1

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes -Oxley Act of 2002.

Table of Contents   

Incorporation  

Exhibit  

by Reference  

Number  
       
      Description of Document  
       
      (if applicable)  

31.2

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes -Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1

Certification pursuant to 18. U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes -Oxley Act of 2002.

99.1

Virbac Corporation Charter of the Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors.

(15); Ex. 99.1 

99.2

Supplement A to the Virbac Corporation Charter of the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors.

(15); Ex. 99.2 

99.3

Independent Auditor s Report and Statements of Net Assets Sold and
Statements of Revenues and Direct Expenses of the Animal Health
Product Lines of King Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

(15); Ex. 99.3 

99.4

Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements of
Virbac Corporation.

(15); Ex. 99.4 

Filed herewith.

(1) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S -1
filed on May 5, 1994. (File No. 33-78646)

(2) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended January 31, 1996. (File No. 000-24312)

(3) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S -8
filed November 29, 1994 (S-8) (File No. 33-86892)

(4) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S -8
filed April 3, 1996 (S-8) (File No. 33-3192)

(5) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended April 30, 1998. (File No. 000-24312)

(6) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the
quarterly period ended July 31, 1998. (File No. 000-24312)

(7) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated
October 16, 1998, filed November 17, 1998. (File No. 000-24312)

(8) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended October 31, 1998. (File No. 000-24312)

(9) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 1999. (File No. 000-24312)

(10) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended March 31, 2001. (File No. 000-24312)

Table of Contents   

(11) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended September 30, 2002. (File No. 000-24312)

(12) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended September 30, 1999. (File No. 000-24312)

(13) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated as of
September 8, 2003, filed September 18, 2003. (File No. 000-24312)

(14) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended September 30, 2003. (File No. 000-24312)

(15) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2003. (File No. 000-24312)

(16) 
Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Current Report
on Form 8-K, dated as of May 6, 2005, filed May 12, 2005. (File No. 000-24312)

(17) Incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2004. (File No. 000-24312)

<EX-10.27>
 2
 d34572exv10w27.htm
 NINTH AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT

exv10w27 

Exhibit 10.27

NINTH AMENDMENT TO 
  CREDIT AGREEMENT 

THIS NINTH AMENDMENT TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (this  Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement ), made
and entered into as of the 24th day of March, 2006, by and between VIRBAC CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation ( Virbac ), PM RESOURCES, INC., a Missouri corporation ( PM Resources ), ST. JON
LABORATORIES, INC., a California corporation ( St. JON ), FRANCODEX LABORATORIES, INC., a Kansas
corporation ( Francodex ), and VIRBAC AH, INC., a Delaware corporation ( Virbac AH, ), and DELMARVA
LABORATORIES, INC., a Virginia corporation ( Delmarva,  and collectively with Virbac, PM Resources,
St. JON, Francodex and Virbac AH referred to herein as the  Borrowers ), and FIRST BANK, a Missouri
state banking corporation ( Bank ).

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, Borrowers heretofore jointly and severally executed and delivered to Bank a Revolving
Credit Note dated September 7, 1999, in the principal amount of up to Ten Million Dollars
($10,000,000.00), payable to the order of Bank as therein set forth, which Revolving Credit Note
has been most recently amended and restated by that certain Revolving Credit Note dated August 22,
2005 in the original principal amount of up to Fifteen Million Dollars ($15,000,000.00) (as amended
and restated, the  Note  and

WHEREAS, the Note is described in a certain Credit Agreement dated as of September 7, 1999
made by and among Borrowers and Bank, as previously amended by an Amendment to Credit Agreement
dated as of December 30, 1999 made by and among Borrowers and Bank, by a Second Amendment to Credit
Agreement dated as of May 1, 2000 made by and among Borrowers and Bank, by a Third Amendment to
Credit Agreement dated as of April 4, 2001 made by and among Borrowers and Bank, by a Fourth
Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of August 7, 2002 made by and among Borrowers and Bank, by a
Fifth Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of August 11, 2003 made by and among Borrowers and
Bank, by a Sixth Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of September 3, 2003 made by and among
Borrowers and Bank, by a Seventh Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of March 1, 2004 made by
and among Borrowers and Bank, by a certain Forbearance Agreement dated as of dated as of April 9,
2004 made by and among Borrowers and Bank, as previously amended by a certain Amendment to
Forbearance Agreement dated as of May 10, 2004 made by and among Borrowers and Bank, by a certain
Second Amendment to Forbearance Agreement dated as of August 9, 2004 made by and among Borrowers
and Bank, by a certain Third Amendment to Forbearance Agreement dated as of February 7, 2005 made
by and among Borrowers and Bank, by a certain Letter Amendment dated as of April 1, 2005 made by
and among Borrowers and Bank, by a certain Fifth Amendment to Forbearance Agreement dated as of May
6, 2005 made by and among Borrowers and Bank, and by an Eighth Amendment to Credit Agreement dated
as of August 22, 2005 made by and among Borrowers and Bank (as amended, the  Loan Agreement,  all
capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed
to them in the Loan Agreement); and

WHEREAS, Borrowers and Bank desire to amend and modify the Note and the Loan Agreement as
hereinafter set forth;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual provisions and agreements
hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto do hereby mutually promise and agree as follows:

1. 
       
     1. The third paragraph beginning with the word  WHEREAS  on the first page of the Loan
Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and in its place shall be substituted the
following: 

WHEREAS, Borrowers, including Virbac AH, Francodex and Delmarva which have been added as parties to
the credit facilities, have requested that the aggregate amount thereof be amended to an aggregate
principal amount of up to Fifteen Million Dollars ($15,000,000.00) and otherwise amended on the
terms and conditions

set forth herein, with such loans to mature on March 31, 2007; and

2. 
       
     Section 1 of the Loan Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and in its place shall be
substituted the following: 

The  Term  of this Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall end
on March 31, 2007, unless earlier terminated upon the occurrence of an Event of
Default
under this Agreement.

3. 
       
     A new definition of  Ninth Amendment  shall be added to Section 2 of the Loan Agreement in
proper alphabetical order as follows: 

Ninth Amendment  shall mean that certain Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement
dated as of March 24, 2006 made by and among Borrowers and Bank.

4. 
       
     The last sentence of Section 3.2 of the Loan Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and
in its place shall be substituted the following: 

Contemporaneously with the execution of the Ninth Amendment (amending this Agreement), Borrowers
shall execute and deliver to Bank a Note of Borrowers dated as of March 24, 2006 and payable
jointly and severally to the order of Bank in the original principal amount of Fifteen Million
Dollars ($15,000,000.00) in the form attached as  Exhibit B  to such Ninth Amendment and
incorporated herein by reference (as the same may from time to time be amended, modified,
extended or renewed, the  Note ). 

5. 
       
     Section 3.16 of the Loan Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and in its place shall be
substituted the following: 

3.16  Maturity . All Loans not paid prior to March 31, 2007, together with all
accrued and unpaid interest thereon, shall be due and payable on March 31, 2007 (the
 Maturity Date ).

6. 
       
     Borrowers hereby covenant and agree that on or before March 24, 2006, Borrowers shall deliver
to Bank the consolidated and consolidating balance sheet, income statement and cash flow
projections prepared on a month-by-month basis for Borrowers and their Subsidiaries as
required by Section 7.1(a)(ix) of the Loan Agreement for Borrowers  2006 fiscal year. Any
breach of the covenant set forth in this paragraph 6 shall constitute an Event of Default
under the Loan Agreement and the other Transaction Documents. 

7. 
       
     Provided Borrowers shall have delivered their budgeted fiscal year 2006 financial statements
to Bank on or before March 24, 2006 as required under paragraph 6 above, Bank hereby waives
the existing Default and Event of Default under Section 7.1(a)(ix) of the Loan Agreement for
Borrowers  failure to deliver such budgeted fiscal year 2006 financial statements to Bank on
or before December 1, 2005. This paragraph is not and shall not be construed as a commitment
on the part of Bank to waive any future Default or Event of Default under the Loan Agreement,
and Borrowers shall not be entitled to expect any such future waiver. 

8. 
       
     Borrowers hereby further covenant and agree that on or before May 12, 2006, Borrowers shall
execute a new amended and restated loan agreement and other documents to provide for a
syndicated revolving credit facility to the Borrowers from Bank and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
as the lenders, and with Bank serving as agent for such lenders, which amended and restated
loan agreement and other documents must be in form and substance satisfactory to Bank and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. 

9. 
       
     Contemporaneously with the execution of this Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement, the
Revolving Credit Note made by the Borrowers payable to the order of Bank shall be amended and
restated in the form 

of that certain Revolving Credit Note made by the Borrowers payable to the order of Bank
attached hereto as  Exhibit B , to extend the maturity thereof and to make certain
amendments as set forth therein (as the same may from time to time be amended, modified,
extended or renewed, the  Note ). All references in the Loan Agreement and the other
Transaction Documents to the  Note,  the  Revolving Credit Note  and other references of similar
import shall hereafter be amended and deemed to refer to the Note in the form of the Revolving
Credit Note, as amended and restated in the form attached hereto as  Exhibit B . 

10. 
       
     Borrowers hereby agrees to reimburse Bank, upon demand, for all out-of-pocket costs and
expenses, including reasonable legal fees and expenses of the attorneys for the Bank incurred
by Bank in the preparation, negotiation and execution of this Ninth Amendment to Credit
Agreement and all other documents, instruments and agreements relating to this Ninth Amendment
to Credit Agreement with Bank. 

11. 
       
     The agreements of Bank contained herein are subject to the following preconditions: 

(a) Execution by each of the Borrowers of this Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement;

(b) Execution by each of the Borrowers of the amended and restated Note;

(c) the execution by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. of a Consent of Participant, in form and
substance satisfactory to Bank;

(d) the execution by VIRBAC S. A. of the Consent in the form attached hereto;

(e) a copy of resolutions of the Board of Directors of each of the Borrowers, duly adopted,
which authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Ninth Amendment to Credit
Agreement and the other Transaction Documents, certified by the Secretary of each such Borrower;
and

(f) such other documents as Bank may reasonably request.

12. 
       
     Borrowers hereby represent and warrant to Bank that: 

(a) 
       
     The execution, delivery and performance by Borrowers of this Ninth Amendment to Credit
Agreement and the amended and restated Note are within the corporate powers of Borrowers,
have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and require no action by or in
respect of, or filing with, any governmental or regulatory body, agency or official. The
execution, delivery and performance by Borrowers of this Ninth Amendment to Credit
Agreement and the amended and restated Note do not conflict with, or result in a breach of
the terms, conditions or provisions of, or constitute a default under or result in any
violation of, and none of the Borrowers is now in default under or in violation of, the
terms of the Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws of such Borrower, any applicable law, any
rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment or decree of any court or governmental or
regulatory agency or instrumentality, or any agreement or instrument to which any of the
Borrowers is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of them is subject; 

(b) 
       
     This Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement and the amended and restated Note have been
duly executed and delivered and constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of
Borrowers enforceable in accordance with their respective terms; and 

(c) 
       
     As of the date hereof, all of the covenants, representations and warranties of
Borrowers set forth in the Loan Agreement are true and correct and no  Event of Default 
(as defined therein) under or within the meaning of the Loan Agreement has occurred and is
continuing. 

13. 
       
     All references in the Loan Agreement to  this Agreement  and any other references of similar
import shall henceforth mean the Loan Agreement as amended by this Ninth Amendment to Credit
Agreement. 

14. 
       
     This Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement and the amended and restated Note shall be binding
upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and
assigns, except that Borrowers may not assign, transfer or delegate any of their rights or
obligations hereunder. 

15. 
       
     This Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the internal laws of the State of Missouri. 

16. 
       
     In the event of any inconsistency or conflict between this Ninth Amendment to Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, the terms, provisions and conditions of this Ninth Amendment
to Credit Agreement shall govern and control. 

17. 
       
     The Loan Agreement and the Note, as hereby amended and modified, are and shall remain the
binding obligations of Borrowers and all of the provisions, terms, stipulations, conditions,
covenants and powers contained therein shall stand and remain in full force and effect, except
only as the same are herein and hereby specifically varied or amended, and the same are hereby
ratified and confirmed. If any installment of principal or interest on the Note shall not be
paid when due as provided in the Note, as hereby amended and modified, the holder of the Note
shall be entitled to and may exercise all rights and remedies under the Note and the Loan
Agreement, as amended. 

18. 
       
     This notice is provided pursuant to Section 432.047, R.S.Mo. As used herein,  creditor 
means Bank, the  credit agreement  means the Loan Agreement, as previously amended and as
amended by this Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement, and  this writing  means the Loan
Agreement, as previously amended and as amended by this Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement,
all guaranties executed by any other Obligor, and any other agreement executed in connection
herewith or therewith. ORAL AGREEMENTS OR COMMITMENTS TO LOAN MONEY, EXTEND CREDIT OR TO
FORBEAR FROM ENFORCING REPAYMENT OF A DEBT INCLUDING PROMISES TO EXTEND OR RENEW SUCH DEBT ARE
NOT ENFORCEABLE, REGARDLESS OF THE LEGAL THEORY UPON WHICH IT IS BASED THAT IS IN ANY WAY
RELATED TO THE CREDIT AGREEMENT. TO PROTECT YOU (BORROWER(S)) AND US (CREDITOR) FROM
MISUNDERSTANDING OR DISAPPOINTMENT, ANY AGREEMENTS WE REACH COVERING SUCH MATTERS ARE
CONTAINED IN THIS WRITING, WHICH IS THE COMPLETE AND EXCLUSIVE STATEMENT OF THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN US, EXCEPT AS WE MAY LATER AGREE IN WRITING TO MODIFY IT. 

The Loan Agreement, as amended by this Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement, embodies the entire
agreement and understanding between the parties hereto and supersedes all prior agreements and
understandings (oral or written) relating to the subject matter hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement
as of the date first written above.

VIRBAC CORPORATION PM RESOURCES, INC.ST. JON
LABORATORIES, INC. VIRBAC AH, INC. FRANCODEX
LABORATORIES, INC. DELMARVA LABORATORIES, INC. 
the  Borrowers  

By:       /s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name: Jean M. Nelson 

Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer 

FIRST BANK 

By: Traci
L. Dodson, Vice President 

EXHIBIT B 

Revolving Credit Note 

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, on March 31, 2007 the undersigned, VIRBAC CORPORATION, a Delaware
corporation (formerly known as Agri-Nutrition Group Limited), PM RESOURCES, INC., a Missouri
corporation, ST. JON LABORATORIES, INC., a California corporation, FRANCODEX LABORATORIES, INC., a
Kansas corporation, VIRBAC AH, INC., a Delaware corporation and DELMARVA LABORATORIES, INC., a
Virginia corporation (collectively, the  Borrowers ), hereby jointly and severally promise to pay
to the order of FIRST BANK, a Missouri state banking corporation ( Bank ), the principal sum of
Fifteen Million Dollars ($15,000,000.00), or such lesser sum as may then be outstanding hereunder.
The aggregate principal amount which Bank shall be committed to have outstanding hereunder at any
one time shall not exceed the lesser of (i) Fifteen Million Dollars ($15,000,000.00), or (ii) the
 Borrowing Base  (as defined in the Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined)), which amount may be
borrowed, paid, reborrowed and repaid, in whole or in part, subject to the terms and conditions
hereof and of the Loan Agreement hereinafter identified.

Borrowers further jointly and severally promise to pay to the order of Bank interest on the
principal amount from time to time outstanding hereunder prior to maturity from the date disbursed
until paid at the rate or rates per annum required by the Loan Agreement. All accrued and unpaid
interest with respect to each principal disbursement made hereunder shall be payable on the dates
set forth in Section

3.6 of the Loan Agreement and at the maturity of this Note, whether by reason of acceleration or
otherwise. After the maturity of this Note, whether by reason of acceleration or otherwise,
interest shall accrue and be payable on demand on the entire outstanding principal balance
hereunder until paid at a rate per annum equal to Three and Three-Fourths Percent (3.75%) over and
above the Prime Rate, fluctuating as and when said Prime Rate shall change. All payments hereunder
(other than prepayments) shall be applied first to the payment of all accrued and unpaid interest,
with the balance, if any, to be applied to the payment of principal. All prepayments hereunder
shall be applied solely to the payment of principal.

All payments of principal and interest hereunder shall be made in lawful currency of the
United States in Federal or other immediately available funds at the office of Bank situated at 135
North Meramec, Clayton, Missouri 63105, or at such other place as the holder hereof shall designate
in writing. Interest shall be computed on an actual day, 360-day year basis.

Bank may record the date and amount of all loans and all payments of principal and interest
hereunder in the records it maintains with respect thereto. Bank s books and records showing the
account between Bank and Borrowers shall be admissible in evidence in any action or proceeding and
shall constitute prima facie proof of the items therein set forth.

This Note is the Note referred to in that certain Credit Agreement dated as of September 7,
1999 made by and between Borrowers and Bank (as the same may from time to time be amended, the
 Loan Agreement ), to which Loan Agreement reference is hereby made for a statement of the terms
and conditions upon which the maturity of this Note may be accelerated, and for other terms and
conditions, including prepayment, which may affect this Note. All capitalized terms used herein
and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Loan Agreement.

This Note is secured by that certain Security Agreement dated as of May 14, 1998 executed by
Virbac

Corporation in favor of Bank, by that certain Security Agreement dated as of May 14, 1998 and
executed by PM Resources, Inc. in favor of Bank, by that certain Security Agreement dated as of May
14, 1998 executed by St. JON Laboratories, Inc. in favor of Bank, by that certain Security
Agreement dated as of September 7, 1999 and executed by Virbac AH, Inc. in favor of Bank, by that
certain Security Agreement dated as of September 7, 1999 executed by Francodex Laboratories, Inc.
in favor of Bank and by that certain Security Agreement dated as of September 3, 2003 executed by
Delmarva Laboratories, Inc. in favor of Bank (as the same may from time to time be amended, the
 Security Agreements ), to which Security Agreements reference is hereby made for a description of
the security and a statement of the terms and conditions upon which this Note is secured.

This Note is also secured by that certain Deed of Trust and Security Agreement dated September
9, 1993 and executed by PM Resources, Inc. in favor of Katherine D. Knocke, as trustee for Bank and
by that certain Deed of Trust and Security Agreement dated September 3, 2003 executed by Virbac
Corporation in favor of David F. Weaver, as trustee for Bank (as the same may from time to time be
amended, the  Deeds of Trust ), to which Deeds of Trust reference is hereby made for a description
of the security and a statement of the terms and conditions upon which this Note is secured.

This Note is also secured by that certain Agreement of Pledge dated as of September 7, 1999
and executed by Virbac Corporation in favor of Bank and by that certain Agreement of Pledge dated
as of September 7, 1999 and executed by Virbac AH, Inc. in favor of Bank (collectively, as the same
may from time to time be amended, the  Pledge Agreements ), to which Pledge Agreements reference is
hereby made for a description of the additional security and a statement of the terms and
conditions upon which this Note is further secured.

This Note is also secured by that certain Patent, Trademark and License Security Agreement
dated as of September 3, 2003 and executed by Virbac Corporation in favor of Bank, by that certain
Patent, Trademark and License Security Agreement dated as of September 3, 2003 and executed by
Virbac AH, Inc. in favor of Bank and by that certain Patent, Trademark and License Security
Agreement dated as of September 3, 2003 and executed by Delmarva Laboratories, Inc. in favor of
Bank (collectively, as the same may from time to time be amended, the  IP Security Agreements  ),
to which IP Security Agreements reference is hereby made for a description of the additional
security and a statement of the terms and conditions upon which this Note is further secured.

If any of the Borrowers shall fail to make any payment of any principal of or interest on this
Note as and when the same shall become due and payable, or if an  Event of Default  (as defined
therein) shall occur under or within the meaning of the Loan Agreement, any of the Security
Agreements, the Deeds of Trust or any of the Pledge Agreements, Bank may, at its option, terminate
its obligation to make any additional loans under this Note and Bank may further declare the entire
outstanding principal balance of this Note and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon to be
immediately due and payable.

In the event that any payment of any principal of or interest on this Note shall not be paid
when due, whether by reason of acceleration or otherwise, and this Note shall be placed in the
hands of an attorney or attorneys for collection or for foreclosure of any of the Security
Agreements, any of the Deeds of Trust or any of the Pledge Agreements securing payment hereof or
for representation of Bank in connection with bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings relating hereto,
Borrowers jointly and severally promise to pay, in addition to all other amounts otherwise due
hereon, the reasonable costs and expenses of such collection, foreclosure and representation,
including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses (whether or not litigation
shall be commenced in aid thereof). All parties hereto severally waive presentment for payment,
demand, protest, notice of protest and notice of dishonor.

This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State
of Missouri.

This Revolving Credit Note is a renewal, restatement and continuation of the obligations due
Bank as evidenced by a Revolving Credit Note dated August 22, 2005 from Borrower payable to the
order of Bank in

the maximum principal amount of $15,000,000.00 (the  Prior Note ), and is not a novation
thereof. All interest evidenced by the Prior Note being amended and restated by this instrument
shall continue to be due and payable until paid.

VIRBAC CORPORATION 

By:   
     /s/ Jean M. Nelson

Jean M. Nelson, Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

PM RESOURCES, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Jean M. Nelson

Jean M. Nelson, Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

ST. JON LABORATORIES, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Jean M. Nelson

Jean M. Nelson, Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

VIRBAC AH, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Jean M. Nelson

Jean M. Nelson, Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

FRANCODEX LABORATORIES, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Jean M. Nelson

Jean M. Nelson, Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

DELMARVA LABORATORIES, INC. 

By:   
     /s/ Jean M. Nelson

Jean M. Nelson, Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer  

Consent of Virbac S. A. 

The undersigned, Virbac S. A., hereby consents to the terms, provisions and conditions contained in
the foregoing Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of March 24, 2006 by and among Virbac
Corporation, a Delaware corporation ( Virbac ), PM Resources, Inc., a Missouri corporation ( PM
Resources ), St. JON Laboratories, Inc., a California corporation ( St. JON ), Francodex
Laboratories, Inc., a Kansas corporation ( Francodex ), Virbac AH, Inc., a Delaware corporation
( Virbac AH, ), and Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., a Virginia corporation ( Delmarva,  and
collectively with Virbac, PM Resources, St. JON, Francodex and Virbac AH referred to herein as the
 Borrowers ), and First Bank (the  Amendment ) and to the amended and restated Revolving Credit
Note described therein (the  Amended Note ). The undersigned hereby acknowledges and agrees that
the execution and delivery of the Amendment and the Amended Note by Borrowers to First Bank will
not impair any of the undersigned s obligations to First Bank under that certain Subordination
Agreement dated as of April 9, 2004 executed by the undersigned in favor of First Bank, as amended
(as amended, the  Subordination Agreement ), which Subordination Agreement is in full force and
effect on the date hereof and which obligations under such Subordination Agreement are hereby
ratified and confirmed by the undersigned. The undersigned hereby further acknowledges and agrees
that pursuant to the terms of such Subordination Agreement, all of Borrowers  Obligations under
Amendment and the Amended Note are and shall continue to be  Senior Indebtedness  under the terms
of the Subordination Agreement.

Executed effective as of the 24th day of March, 2006.

VIRBAC S. A.

By: 
Name: 
Title:

/s/ Eric Maree 
Eric Maree 
Chief Executive Officer 

CONSENT OF PARTICIPANT  

The undersigned, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the successor by merger to and formerly known as
Bank One, N.A., in its capacity as the  Participant  under that certain Amended and Restated
Agreement and Certificate of Participation dated April 9, 2004 by and between First Bank ( First
Bank ), and the undersigned (the  Participation Agreement ), hereby consents to the terms,
provisions and conditions contained in that certain Ninth Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of
March 24, 2006 by and among VIRBAC CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ( Virbac ), PM RESOURCES,
INC., a Missouri corporation ( PM Resources ), ST. JON LABORATORIES, INC., a California corporation
( St. JON ), FRANCODEX LABORATORIES, INC., a Kansas corporation ( Francodex ), VIRBAC AH, INC., a
Delaware corporation ( Virbac AH, ), and DELMARVA LABORATORIES, INC., a Virginia corporation
( Delmarva,  and collectively with Virbac, PM Resources, St. JON, Francodex and Virbac AH referred
to herein as the  Borrowers ), and FIRST BANK in the form attached hereto as  Exhibit A  (the
 Amendment ). The undersigned hereby (i) acknowledges and agrees that the  Maximum Amount of
Financing  as set forth in the Participation Agreement has been reduced from $20,000,000.00 to
$15,000,000.00, and the amount of the Participation sold by the Seller, First Bank, to Participant
thereunder is presently $5,000,000.00; (ii) consents to First Bank s execution, delivery and
performance of the Amendment and (iii) acknowledges and agrees that the Participation Agreement
(with the undersigned s participation exposure on the date hereof at $2,300,000.00) is in full
force and effect on the date hereof and the same is hereby ratified and confirmed.

Executed effective as of the 27th day of March, 2006.

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., successor by merger to
and formerly known as Bank One, N.A.
(Participant) 

By:   
     /s/ Jennifer C. Baggs 

Title: 
      Vice President 

Accepted and Agreed to
this 28th day of  

March, 2006: 

FIRST BANK 

By:

/s/ Traci L. Dodson 

Title:

Vice President 

</EX-10.27>

<EX-10.45>
 3
 d34572exv10w45.htm
 THIRD AMENDMENT TO SECURED SUBORDINATED PROMISSORY NOTE DATED APRIL 9, 2004

exv10w45 

Exhibit 10.45

THIRD AMENDMENT 
TO 
SECURED SUBORDINATED PROMISSORY NOTE 
DATED AS OF APRIL 9, 2004 

This Third Amendment is made as of the 7th day of March, 2006, by and among Virbac
Corporation, a Delaware corporation, PM Resources, Inc., a Missouri corporation, St. Jon
Laboratories, Inc., a California corporation, Francodex Laboratories, Inc., a Kansas corporation,
Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., a Virginia corporation and Virbac AH, Inc., Delaware corporation
(collectively, the  Borrowers ), and Virbac S.A., a company organized under the laws of the
Republic of France (the  Holder ) (capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the
meanings ascribed to such terms in that certain Secured Subordinated Promissory Note, dated April
9, 2004, in the original principal amount of $4,000,000.00 by and between the Borrowers and the
Holder (as amended, modified or restated from time to time, the  Note )).

WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Note as set forth herein; and

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants and
agreements set forth herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency
of which are hereby acknowledged by each of the parties hereto, the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

1. The Note is hereby amended in the following respect:

The Maturity Date of the Note is hereby changed to April 9, 2007. All
sums owing under the Note shall be due and payable no later than this
Maturity Date, and such date shall not be extended, except by written
agreement of the Holder and Borrowers.

2. Except as provided for in this Third Amendment, the Note, as amended, shall
remain in full force and effect and is hereby reaffirmed.

3. This Amendment shall be interpreted, construed and enforced in accordance
with the laws of the State of Delaware.

Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank. 
Signature Page Follows.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Amendment effective as of the date
first written above.

BORROWERS : 

VIRBAC CORPORATION  

a Delaware corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

PM RESOURCES, INC.  

a Missouri corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

ST. JON LABORATORIES, INC.  

a California corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

FRANCODEX LABORATORIES, INC.  

a Kansas corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

DELMARVA LABORATORIES, INC.  

a Virginia corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

VIRBAC AH, INC.  

a Delaware corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

HOLDER : 

VIRBAC S.A.  

a company organized under the laws of the  

Republic of France  

By:

/s/ Eric Maree 

Name:

Eric Maree 

Title:

President of the Management Board 

</EX-10.45>

<EX-10.46>
 4
 d34572exv10w46.htm
 THIRD AMENDMENT TO SECURED SUBORDINATED PROMISSORY NOTE DATED APRIL 29, 2004

exv10w46 

Exhibit 10.46

THIRD AMENDMENT 
TO 
SECURED SUBORDINATED PROMISSORY NOTE 
DATED AS OF APRIL 29, 2004 

This Third Amendment is made as of the 7th day of March, 2006, by and among Virbac
Corporation, a Delaware corporation, PM Resources, Inc., a Missouri corporation, St. Jon
Laboratories, Inc., a California corporation, Francodex Laboratories, Inc., a Kansas corporation,
Delmarva Laboratories, Inc., a Virginia corporation and Virbac AH, Inc., Delaware corporation
(collectively, the  Borrowers ), and Virbac S.A., a company organized under the laws of the
Republic of France (the  Holder ) (capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the
meanings ascribed to such terms in that certain Secured Subordinated Promissory Note, dated April
29, 2004, in the original principal amount of $3,000,000.00 by and between the Borrowers and the
Holder (as amended, modified or restated from time to time, the  Note )).

WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Note as set forth herein; and

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants and
agreements set forth herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency
of which are hereby acknowledged by each of the parties hereto, the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

1. The Note is hereby amended in the following respect:

The Maturity Date of the Note is hereby changed to April 9, 2007. All
sums owing under the Note shall be due and payable no later than this
Maturity Date, and such date shall not be extended, except by written
agreement of the Holder and Borrowers.

2. Except as provided for in this Third Amendment, the Note, as amended, shall
remain in full force and effect and is hereby reaffirmed.

3. This Amendment shall be interpreted, construed and enforced in accordance
with the laws of the State of Delaware.

Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank. 
Signature Page Follows.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Amendment effective as of the date
first written above.

BORROWERS : 

VIRBAC CORPORATION  

a Delaware corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

PM RESOURCES, INC.  

a Missouri corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

ST. JON LABORATORIES, INC.  

a California corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

FRANCODEX LABORATORIES, INC.  

a Kansas corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

DELMARVA LABORATORIES, INC.  

a Virginia corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

VIRBAC AH, INC.  

a Delaware corporation  

By:

/s/ Jean M. Nelson 

Name:

Jean M. Nelson 

Title:

Executive Vice President and Chief 

Financial Officer 

HOLDER : 

VIRBAC S.A.  

a company organized under the laws of the  

Republic of France  

By:

/s/ Eric Maree 

Name:

Eric Maree 

Title:

President of the Management Board 

</EX-10.46>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 d34572exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8
(Nos. 33-86880, 33-86892, 33-93340, 333-03192, 333-48069 and 333-48073) of Virbac Corporation of
our report dated March 31, 2006 relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Fort Worth, Texas 
March 31, 2006

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 d34572exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATION  

I, Erik R. Martinez, certify that: 

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Virbac Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ Erik R. Martinez

Erik R. Martinez  

President and Chief Executive
Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer)  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 d34572exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATION  

I, Jean M. Nelson, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Virbac Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

(c) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 31, 2006  
     By:   
     /s/ Jean M. Nelson

Jean M. Nelson  

Executive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 d34572exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of Virbac Corporation (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for
the period ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), we, Erik R. Martinez, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
and Jean M. Nelson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify to
our knowledge, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ Erik R. Martinez                     

Erik R. Martinez 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
March 31, 2006

/s/ Jean M. Nelson                     

Jean M. Nelson 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
March 31, 2006

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the
Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

